[1] "Item 1A.     Risk Factors. Risks Relating to Our General Business and Operations.. We may not be successful in integrating our combined company following the Merger.. ApolloMed and NMM operated as independent companies prior to Merger, and if we cannot successfully integrate our operations and personnel, our business and financial condition could be adversely impacted.. The challenges involved in this integration include the following:. ·     dedicating management resources to integration activities without diverting attention from the day-to-day business of the combined company;. ·     demonstrating to customers that the Merger will not result in adverse changes to the ability of the combined company to address their needs; and. ·     retaining the combined company’s key personnel.. Prior to the Merger, ApolloMed suffered operating losses and its cash flows were inadequate to support its ongoing operations. Our ability to continue to fund our operations depends on our ability to integrate, generate positive cash flows from, and continue growing operations of our combined company.. Our future results may differ materially from the unaudited pro forma financial statements presented for the combined company following the Merger completion, which were presented for illustrative purposes only.. The unaudited pro forma combined financial statements contained in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed on August 11, 2017, the Amendments No.1, No.2 and No.3 thereto on Form S-4/A, the Rule 424(b)(3) prospectus filed on November 15, 2017, and the Amendment No. 1 on Form 8-K/A filed on February 23, 2018 were presented for illustrative purposes only, and for several reasons, may not be an indication of the combined company’s financial condition or results of operations following the completion of the Merger. The unaudited pro forma combined financial statements have been derived from the historical financial statements of ApolloMed and NMM and adjustments and assumptions have been made regarding the combined company after giving effect to the Merger. The information upon which these adjustments and assumptions have been made is preliminary, and these kinds of adjustments and assumptions are difficult to make with accuracy. Moreover, the pro forma financial statements do not reflect all costs expected to be incurred by the combined company in connection with the Merger. For example, the impact of costs incurred to close the Merger in the last quarter of 2017 and any incremental costs incurred in integrating our operations were not reflected. As a result, the actual financial condition and results of operations of the combined company following the completion of the Merger may not be consistent with, or evident from, these pro forma financial statements. The assumptions used in preparing the pro forma financial information may prove to be inaccurate, and other factors may affect the combined company’s financial condition or results of operations following the Merger. Any decline or potential decline in the combined company’s financial condition or results of operations may cause significant variations in the market price of ApolloMed’s common stock.. 19. We may be required to take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring and impairment or other charges that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and stock price.. There can be no assurances that all material issues that may be present in our operations, including from prior to the Merger, have been uncovered, or that factors outside of our control will not later arise. As a result, we may be forced to write-down or write-off assets, restructure operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in losses. Unexpected risks may arise and previously known risks may materialize in a manner not consistent with each company’s preliminary risk analysis. Even though these charges may not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our securities and may make our future financing difficult to obtain on favorable terms or at all.. From time to time, our intangible assets are subject to impairment testing. Under current accounting standards, our goodwill, including acquired goodwill, is tested for impairment on an annual basis and may be subject to impairment losses as circumstances change (e.g., after an acquisition). If we record an impairment loss, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the year in which the impairment is recorded.. We have historically identified material weaknesses in our internal controls. We cannot assure that these weaknesses will not recur or additional material weaknesses will not occur in the future. If our internal control procedures are not effective, we may not be able to accurately and timely report financial results, file periodic reports, or prevent fraud or deficiencies, which could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, lead to a decline in our stock price, or result in regulatory or legal actions against us.. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls over our financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“the “Exchange Act”). In the recent past, we identified a number of material weaknesses in our control procedures. These material weaknesses included: (i) inability to appropriately address and account for technical accounting matters; (ii) lack of adequate supervision and review; (iii) insufficient formal documentation of agreements and contractual terms; (iv) inadequate controls over financial reporting and (v) a lack of formal documentation of internal control procedures, policies and processes supporting a robust internal control environment. These and other material weaknesses could lead, or might in the future lead, to the reporting of inaccurate or incomplete information regarding us and require us to devote substantial resources to mitigating and resolving such weaknesses.. We implemented the following remediation efforts: (i) engaged outside accounting consultants to assist with technical accounting matters and financial reporting; (ii) implemented policies and procedures to require supervision and review of significant transactions prior to posting into the accounting system; (iii) implemented policies and procedures to require agreements to be signed; and (iv) added formal documentation of internal control procedures, policies and processes. Despite these efforts, integrating ApolloMed’s and NMM’s businesses has challenges and we cannot provide assurances that the identified weaknesses, even if remediated (see Item 9A below), will not recur or that additional material weaknesses will not occur in the future. Following the completion of the Merger, we are subject to more stringent standards under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our management may not be able to effectively and timely implement controls and procedures that adequately respond to the increased regulatory compliance and reporting requirements that are applicable to us following the completion of the Merger. If our management is not able to implement such additional requirements in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may not be able to assess whether our internal controls over financial reporting is effective, which may subject us to adverse regulatory consequences and harm investor confidence and the market price of ApolloMed’s common stock.. We also expect to incur additional expense to obtain and utilize resources for our management to perform its evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as well as the related audit fees to have our independent auditors attest to management’s evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal controls. Additionally, we intend to continue to grow our business, in part, through acquisitions. If we acquire new entities, we may fail to discover defects or deficiencies in the design and operations of the internal controls over financial reporting of such entities, or internal control defects or deficiencies may arise when we try to integrate the operations of these newly acquired entities. We can provide no assurances that we will not experience such issues in future acquisitions, the result of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial statements.. We may need to raise additional capital to grow, which might not be available.. We may in the future require additional capital to grow our business and may have to raise additional funds by selling equity, issuing debt, borrowing, refinancing our existing debt, or selling assets or subsidiaries. These alternatives may not be available on acceptable terms to us or in amounts sufficient to meet our needs. The failure to obtain any required future financing may require us to reduce or curtail certain existing operations.. Our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes will be subject to limitations.. If a corporation undergoes an “ownership change” within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, its net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes arising from before the ownership change are subject to limitations on use after the ownership change. In general, an ownership change occurs if there is a cumulative change in the corporation’s equity ownership by certain stockholders that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. Similar rules may apply under state tax laws. The Merger likely resulted in an ownership change for us and, accordingly, our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes will be subject to use limitations after the Merger. Additional ownership changes in the future could result in additional limitations on our net operating loss carryforwards. Consequently, we may not be able to utilize a material portion of our net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes, to offset our tax liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations.. 20. Uncertain or adverse economic conditions could adversely impact us.. A downturn in economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, business prospects and stock price. Historically, government budget limitations have resulted in reduced spending. Given that Medicaid is a significant component of state budgets, an economic downturn would put continued cost containment pressures on Medicaid outlays for healthcare services in California. The existing federal deficit and continued deficit spending by the federal government can lead to reduced government expenditures including for government-funded programs in which we participate such as Medicare. An economic downturn and sustained unemployment may also impact the number of enrollees in managed care programs and the profitability of managed care companies, which could result in reduced reimbursement rates. Although we attempt to stay informed, any sustained failure to identify and respond to these trends could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects.. A prolonged disruption of or any actual or perceived difficulties in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our future access to capital, our cost of capital and our ability to continue operations.. Our operations and performance depend primarily on California and U.S. economic conditions and their impact on purchases of, or capitated rates for, our healthcare services, and our business is significantly exposed to risks associated with government spending and private payor reimbursement rates. As a result of the global financial crisis that began in 2008, general economic conditions deteriorated significantly. Although the markets have improved significantly, the overall economic recovery since that time has been uneven. Declines in consumer and business confidence as well as private and government spending, together with significant reductions in the availability and increases in the cost of credit and volatility in the capital and credit markets, have adversely affected the business and economic environment in which we operate and our profitability. Market disruption, increases in interest rates and/or sluggish economic growth in any future period could adversely affect our patients’ spending habits, private payors’ access to capital and governmental budgetary processes, which, in turn, could result in reduced revenue for us. The continuation or recurrence of any of these conditions may adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. As economic uncertainty may continue in future periods, our patients, private payors and government payors may alter their purchasing activities of healthcare services. Our patients may scale back healthcare spending, and private and government payors may reduce reimbursement rates, which may also cause delay or cancellation of consumer spending for discretionary and non-reimbursed healthcare. This uncertainty may also affect our ability to prepare accurate financial forecasts or meet specific forecasted results, and we may be unable to adequately respond to or forecast further changes in demand for healthcare services. Volatility and disruption of capital and credit markets may adversely affect our access to capital and increase our cost of capital. Should current economic and market conditions deteriorate, our ability to finance ongoing operations and our expansion may be adversely affected, we may be unable to raise necessary funds, our cost of debt or equity capital may increase significantly and future access to capital markets may be adversely affected.. If there is a change in accounting principles or the interpretation thereof affecting consolidation of VIEs, it could impact our consolidation of total revenues derived from our affiliated physician groups.. Our financial statements are consolidated and include the accounts of our majority-owned subsidiaries and various non-owned affiliated physician groups that are VIEs, which consolidation is effectuated in accordance with applicable accounting rules promulgated by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”). Such accounting rules require that, under some circumstances, the VIE consolidation model be applied when a reporting enterprise holds a variable interest (e.g., equity interests, debt obligations, certain management and service contracts) in a legal entity. Under this model, an enterprise must assess the entity in which it holds a variable interest to determine whether it meets the criteria to be consolidated as a VIE. If the entity is a VIE, the consolidation framework next identifies the party, if one exists, that possesses a controlling financial interest in the VIE, and then requires that party to consolidate as the primary beneficiary. An enterprise’s determination of whether it has a controlling financial interest in a VIE requires that a qualitative determination be made, and is not solely based on voting rights. If an enterprise determines the entity in which it holds a variable interest is not subject to the VIE consolidation model, the enterprise should apply the traditional voting control model which focuses on voting rights.. In our case, the VIE consolidation model applies to our controlled, but not owned, physician affiliated entities. Our determination regarding the consolidation of our affiliates, however, could be challenged, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, in the event of a change in accounting rules or FASB’s interpretations thereof, or if there were an adverse determination by a regulatory agency or a court or a change in state or federal law relating to the ability to maintain present agreements or arrangements with our affiliated physician groups, we may not be permitted to continue to consolidate the revenues of our VIEs.. 21. Breaches or compromises of our information security systems or our information technology systems or infrastructure could result in exposure of private information, disruption of our business and damage to our reputation, which could harm our business, results of operation and financial condition.. As a routine part of our business, we utilize information security and information technology systems and websites that allow for the secure storage and transmission of proprietary or private information regarding our patients, employees, vendors and others, including individually identifiable health information. A security breach of our network, hosted service providers, or vendor systems, may expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation and potential liability. Hackers and data thieves are increasingly sophisticated and operate large-scale and complex automated attacks, including on companies within the healthcare industry. Although we believe that we take appropriate measures to safeguard sensitive information within our possession, we may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent rapidly-evolving types of cyber-attacks targeted at us, our patients, or others who have entrusted us with information. Actual or anticipated attacks may cause us to incur costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees, and engage third-party experts and consultants. We invest in industry standard security technology to protect personal information. Advances in computer capabilities, new technological discoveries, or other developments may result in the technology used by us to protect personal information or other data being breached or compromised. In addition, data and security breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical. To our knowledge, we have not experienced any material breach of our cybersecurity systems. If we or our third-party service providers systems fail to operate effectively or are damaged, destroyed, or shut down, or there are problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or there are security breaches in these systems, any of the aforementioned could occur as a result of natural disasters, software or equipment failures, telecommunications failures, loss or theft of equipment, acts of terrorism, circumvention of security systems, or other cyber-attacks, we could experience delays or decreases in product sales, and reduced efficiency of our operations. Additionally, any of these events could lead to violations of privacy laws, loss of customers, or loss, misappropriation or corruption of confidential information, trade secrets or data, which could expose us to potential litigation, regulatory actions, sanctions or other statutory penalties, any or all of which could adversely affect our business, and cause it to incur significant losses and remediation costs.. We rely on complex software systems and hosted applications to operate our business, and our business may be disrupted if we are unable to successfully or efficiently update these systems or convert to new systems.. We are increasingly dependent on technology systems to operate our business, reduce costs, and enhance customer service. These systems include complex software systems and hosted applications that are provided by third parties. Software systems need to be updated on a regular basis with patches, bug fixes and other modifications. Hosted applications are subject to service availability and reliability of hosting environments. We also migrate from legacy systems to new systems from time to time. Maintaining existing software systems, implementing upgrades and converting to new systems are costly and require personnel and other resources. The implementation of these systems upgrades and conversions is a complex and time-consuming project involving substantial expenditures for implementation activities, consultants, system hardware and software, often requires transforming our current business and processes to conform to new systems, and therefore, may take longer, be more disruptive, and cost more than forecast and may not be successful. If the implementation is delayed or otherwise is not successful, it may hinder our business operations and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. There are many factors that may materially and adversely affect the schedule, cost, and execution of the implementation process, including, without limitation, problems in the design and testing of new systems; system delays and malfunctions; the deviation by suppliers and contractors from the required performance under their contracts with us; the diversion of management attention from our daily operations to the implementation project; reworks due to unanticipated changes in business processes; difficulty in training employees in the operation of new systems and maintaining internal control while converting from legacy systems to new systems; and integration with our existing systems. Some of such factors may not be reasonably anticipated or may be beyond our control.. Some of our agreements for services or products have limited terms, and we may be unable to renew such agreements and may lose access to such services or products.. We have various agreements with a number of third parties that provide products or services to us. These agreements often require reoccurring payments for continued access and have limited terms. We will be required to renegotiate the terms of these agreements from time to time, and may be unable to renew such agreements on favorable terms. If any such agreement cannot be renewed or can only be renewed on terms materially worse for us, we may lose access to the service or product, and our business and operating results may be adversely affected.. We may be unable to renew our leases on favorable terms or at all as our leases expire, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We operate several leased premises. There is no assurance that we will be able to continue to occupy such premises in the future. For example, we currently rent our corporate headquarters on a month-to-month basis. We could thus spend substantial resources to meet the current landlords’ demands or look for other premises. We may be unable to timely renew such leases or renew them on favorable terms, if at all. If any current lease is terminated or not renewed, we may be required to relocate our operations at substantial costs or incur increased rental expenses, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We currently derive 100% of revenues in California and are vulnerable to changes in that state.. We only operate in California. Any material changes with respect to consumer preferences, taxation, reimbursements, financial requirements or other aspects of the healthcare delivery in California or the state’s economic conditions could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our success depends, to a significant degree, upon our ability to adapt to the ever-changing healthcare industry and continued development of additional services.. Although we expect to provide a broad and competitive range of services, there can be no assurance of acceptance of current services by the marketplace. Our ability to procure new contracts may be dependent upon the continuing results achieved at the current facilities, upon pricing and operational considerations, and the potential need for continuing improvement to our existing services. Moreover, the markets for our new services may not develop as expected nor can there be any assurance that we will be successful in marketing of any such services.. 22. Risks Relating to Our Growth Strategy and Business Model.. Our growth strategy may not prove viable and we may not realize expected results.. Our business strategy is to grow rapidly by building a network of medical groups and integrated physician networks and is significantly dependent on locating and acquiring, partnering or contracting with medical practices to provide health care delivery services. We seek growth opportunities both organically and through acquisitions of or alliances with other medical service providers. As part of our growth strategy, we regularly review potential strategic opportunities. Identifying and establishing suitable strategic relationships are time-consuming and costly. There can be no assurance that we will be successful. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in pursuing such strategic opportunities or assure the consequences of any strategic transactions. If we fail to evaluate and execute strategic transactions properly, we may not achieve anticipated benefits and may incur increased costs.. Our strategic transactions involve a number of risks and uncertainties, including that:. ·     We may not be able to successfully identify suitable strategic opportunities, complete desired strategic transactions, or realize their expected benefits. In addition, we compete for strategic transactions with other potential players, some of whom may have greater resources than we do. This competition may intensify due to the ongoing consolidation in the healthcare industry, which may increase our costs to pursue such opportunities.. ·     We may not be able to establish suitable strategic relationships and may fail to integrate them into our business. We cannot be certain of the extent of any unknown, undisclosed or contingent liabilities of any acquired business, including liabilities for failure to comply with applicable laws. We may incur material liabilities for past activities from strategic relationships. Also, depending on the location of the strategic transactions, we may be required to comply with laws and regulations that may differ from states in which we currently operate.. ·     We may form strategic relationships with medical practices that operate with lower profit margins as compared with ours or which have a different payor mix than our other practice groups, which would reduce our overall profit margin. Depending upon the nature of the local market, we may not be able to implement our business model in every local market that we enter, which could negatively impact our revenues and financial condition.. ·     We may incur substantial costs to complete strategic transactions, integrate strategic relationships into our business, or expand our operations, including hiring more employees and engaging other personnel, to provide services to additional patients that we are responsible for managing pursuant to the new relationships. If such relationships terminate or diminish before we can realize their expected benefits, any costs that we have already incurred may not be recovered.. ·     If we finance strategic transactions by issuing our equity securities or securities convertible thereto, our existing stockholders could be diluted. If we finance strategic transactions with debt, it could result in higher leverage and interest costs for us.. If we are not successful in our efforts to identify and execute strategic transactions on beneficial terms, our ability to implement our business plan and achieve our targets could be adversely affected.. The process of integrating strategic relationships also involves significant risks including:. ·     difficulties in coping with demands on management related to the increased size of our business;      ·     difficulties in not diverting management’s attention from our daily operations;      ·     difficulties in assimilating different corporate cultures and business practices;      ·     difficulties in converting other entities’ books and records and conforming their practices to ours;      ·     difficulties in integrating operating, accounting and information technology systems of other entities with ours and in maintaining uniform procedures, policies and standards, such as internal accounting controls;      ·     difficulties in retaining employees who may be vital to the integration of the acquired entities; and      ·     difficulties in maintaining contracts and relationships with payors of other entities.. We may be required to make certain contingent payments in connection with strategic transactions from time to time. The fair value of such payments is re-evaluated periodically based on changes in our estimate of future operating results and changes in market discount rates. Any changes in our estimated fair value are recognized in our results of operations. The actual payments, however, may exceed our estimated fair value. Increases in actual contingent payments compared to the amounts recognized may have an adverse effect on our financial condition.. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively integrate strategic relationships into our business, which may negatively impact our business model, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, strategic transactions are time-intensive, requiring significant commitment of our management’s focus. If our management spends too much time on assessing potential opportunities, completing strategic transactions and integrating strategic relationships, our management may not have sufficient time to focus on our existing operations. This diversion of attention could have material and adverse consequences on our operations and profitability.. 23. Obligations in our credit or loan documents could restrict our operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to take specified actions. An event of default could harm our business, and creditors having security interests over our assets would be able to foreclose on our assets.. The terms of our credit agreements and other indebtedness from time to time require us to comply with a number of financial and other obligations, which may include maintaining debt service coverage and leverage ratios and maintaining insurance coverage, that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to take actions that may be in our interests. These obligations may limit our flexibility in our operations, and breaches of these obligations could result in defaults under the agreements or instruments governing the indebtedness, even if we had satisfied our payment obligations. Moreover, if we defaulted on these obligations, creditors having security interests over our assets could exercise various remedies, including foreclosing on and selling our assets. Unless waived by creditors, for which no assurance can be given, defaulting on these obligations could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and ability to continue our operations.. We may encounter difficulties in managing our growth, and the nature of our business and rapid changes in the healthcare industry makes it difficult to reliably predict future growth and operating results.. We may not be able to successfully grow and expand. Successful implementation of its business plan will require management of growth, including potentially rapid and substantial growth, which could result in an increase in the level of responsibility for management personnel and strain on our human and capital resources. To manage growth effectively, we will be required, among other things, to continue to implement and improve our operating and financial systems, procedures and controls and to expand, train and manage our employee base. If we are unable to implement and scale improvements to our existing systems and controls in an efficient and timely manner or if we encounter deficiencies, we will not be able to successfully execute our business plans. Failure to attract and retain sufficient numbers of qualified personnel could also impede our growth. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, it will have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition.. The evolving nature of our business and rapid changes in the healthcare industry makes it difficult to anticipate the nature and amount of medical reimbursements, third party private payments and participation in certain government programs and thus to reliably predict our future growth and operating results.. Our growth strategy may incur significant costs, which could adversely affect our financial condition.. Our growth by strategic transactions strategy involves significant costs, including financial advisory, legal and accounting fees, and may include additional costs for items such as fairness opinions and severance payments. These costs could put a strain on our cash flows, which in turn could adversely affect our overall financial condition.. We could experience significant losses under capitation contracts if our expenses exceed revenues.. Under a capitation contract, a health plan typically prospectively pays an IPA periodic capitation payments based on a percentage of the amount received by the health plan. Capitation payments, in the aggregate, represent a prospective budget from which an IPA manages care-related expenses on behalf of the population enrolled with that IPA. If our affiliated IPAs are able to manage care-related expenses under the capitated levels, we realize operating profits from capitation contracts. However, if care-related expenses exceed projected levels, our affiliated IPAs may realize substantial operating deficits, which are not capped and could lead to substantial losses.. If our agreements with affiliated physician groups are deemed invalid or are terminated under applicable law, our results of operations and financial condition will be materially impaired.. There are various state laws, including laws in California, regulating the corporate practice of medicine which prohibit us from directly owning medical professional entities. These prohibitions are intended to prevent unlicensed persons from interfering with or inappropriately influencing a physician’s professional judgment. These and other laws may also prevent fee-splitting, which is the sharing of professional service income with non-professional or business interests. The interpretation and enforcement of these laws vary significantly from state to state. We currently derive revenues from management services agreements (“MSAs”) or similar arrangements with our affiliated IPAs, whereby we provide management and administrative services to them. If these agreements and arrangements were held to be invalid under laws prohibiting the corporate practice of medicine and other laws or if there are new laws that prohibit such agreements or arrangements, a significant portion of our revenues will be lost, resulting in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. The arrangements we have with our VIEs are not as secure as direct ownership of such entities.. Because of corporate practice of medicine laws, we entered into contractual arrangements to manage certain affiliated physician practice groups, which allow us to consolidate those groups for financial reporting purposes. We do not have direct ownership interests in any of our VIEs and are not able to exercise rights as an equity holder to directly change the members of the boards of directors of these entities so as to affect changes at the management and operational level. Under our arrangements with our VIEs, we have to rely on their equity holders to exercise our control over the entities. If our affiliated entities or their equity holders fail to perform as expected, we may have to incur substantial costs and expend additional resources to enforce such arrangements.. 24. Any failure by our affiliated entities or their owners to perform their obligations under their agreements with us would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our affiliated physician practice groups are owned by individual physicians who could die, become incapacitated or become no longer affiliated with us. Although our MSAs with these affiliates provide that they will be binding on successors of current owners, as the successors are not parties to the MSAs, it is uncertain in case of the death, bankruptcy or divorce of a current owner whether his or her successors would be subject to such MSAs.. Our revenues and operations are dependent on a limited number of key payors.. Our operations are dependent on a concentrated number of payors. Four payors accounted for an aggregate of 54.6% and 58.5% of our total net revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We believe that a majority of our revenues will continue to be derived from a limited number of key payors, which may terminate their contracts with us or our physicians credentialed by them upon the occurrence of certain events. They may also amend the material terms of the contracts under certain circumstances. Failure to maintain such contracts on favorable terms, or at all, would materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. An exodus of our patients could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may also be impacted by a shift in payor mix including eligibility changes to government and private insurance programs.. A material decline in the number of patients that we and our affiliated physician groups serve, whether a government or a private entity is paying for their healthcare, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, which could result from increased competition, new developments in the healthcare industry or regulatory overhauls. In light of the repeal of the individual mandate requirement under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (also known as Affordable Care Act or Obamacare) via the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, starting in 2019, some people are expected to lose their health insurance and thus may not continue to afford services by our managed medical groups. In addition, due to potential decreased availability of healthcare through private employers, the number of patients who are uninsured or participate in governmental programs may increase. A shift in payor mix from managed care and other private payors to government payors or the uninsured may result in a reduction in our rates of reimbursement or an increase in our uncollectible receivables or uncompensated care, with a corresponding decrease our net revenue. Changes in the eligibility requirements for governmental programs could also change the number of patients who participate in such programs or the number of uninsured patients. For those patients who remain with private insurance, changes in those programs could increase patient responsibility amounts, resulting in a greater risk for uncollectible receivables. Such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our future growth could be harmed if we lose the services of our key management personnel.. Our success depends to a significant extent on the continued contributions of our key management personnel, particularly our Executive Chairman, Dr. Sim, and our Chief Executive Officers, Dr. Lam and Dr. Hosseinion, for the management of our business and implementation of our business strategy. The loss of their services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If having our key management personnel serving as nominee equity holders of our VIEs is invalid under applicable laws, or if we lost the services of key management personnel for any reason, it could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.. There are various state laws, including laws in California, regulating the corporate practice of medicine which prohibits us from owning various healthcare entities. This corporate practice of medicine prohibitions are intended to prevent unlicensed persons from interfering with or inappropriately influencing a physician’s professional judgment. The interpretation and enforcement of these laws vary significantly from state to state. As a result, many of our affiliated physician practice groups are either wholly-owned or primarily owned by Dr. Lam or Dr. Hosseinion as the nominee shareholder for our benefit. If these arrangements were held to be invalid under applicable laws, which may change from time to time, a significant portion of our consolidated revenues would be affected, which may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Similarly, if Dr. Lam or Dr. Hosseinion died, was incapacitated or otherwise was no longer affiliated with us, our relationships and arrangements with those VIEs could be in jeopardy, and our business could be adversely affected.. We are dependent in part on referrals from third parties and preferred provider status with payors.. Our business relies in part on referrals from third parties for our services. We receive referrals from community medical providers, emergency departments, payors, and hospitals in the same manner as other medical professionals receive patient referrals. We do not provide compensation or other remuneration to referral sources for referring patients to us. A decrease in these referrals due to competition, concerns about our services and other factors could result in a significant decrease in our revenues and adversely impact our financial condition. Similarly, we cannot assure that we will be able to obtain or maintain preferred provider status with significant third-party payors in the communities where we operate. If we are unable to maintain our referral base or our preferred provider status with significant third-party payors, it may negatively impact our revenues and financial performance.. 25. Partner facilities may terminate agreements with our affiliated physician groups or reduce their fees.. Our hospitalist physician services net revenue is derived from contracts directly with hospitals and other inpatient and post-acute care facilities. Our current partner facilities may decide not to renew contracts with, impose unfavorable terms on, or reduce fees paid to our affiliated physician groups. Any of these events may impact the ability of our affiliated physician groups to operate at such facilities, which would negatively impact our revenues, results of operations and financial condition.. Many of our agreements with hospitals and medical groups have limited durations, may be terminated without cause by them, and prohibit us from acquiring physicians or patients from or competing with them.. Many of our agreements with hospitals and medical groups are limited in their terms or may be terminated without cause by providing advance notice. If such agreements are not renewed or terminated, we would lose the revenue generated by them. Any such events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and future business plans. Because many of such agreements with hospitals and medical groups prohibit us from acquiring physicians or patients from or competing with them, our ability to hire physicians, attract patients or conduct business in certain areas may be limited in some cases.. Our business model depends on numerous complex management information systems, and any failure to successfully maintain these systems or implement new systems could undermine our ability to receive payments and otherwise materially harm our operations and may result in violations of healthcare laws and regulations.. We depend on a complex, specialized, integrated management information system and standardized procedures for operational and financial information, as well as for our billing operations. We may be unable to enhance existing management information systems or implement new management information systems when necessary. We may experience unanticipated delays, complications or expenses in implementing, integrating and operating our systems. Our management information systems may require modifications, improvements or replacements that may require both substantial expenditures as well as interruptions in operations. Our ability to create and implement these systems depends on the availability of technology and skilled personnel. Our failure to successfully implement and maintain all of our systems could undermine our ability to receive payments and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our failure to successfully operate our billing systems could also lead to potential violations of healthcare laws and regulations.. Risks Relating to the Healthcare Industry.. The healthcare industry is highly competitive.. We compete directly with national, regional and local providers of inpatient healthcare for patients and physicians. There are many other companies and individuals currently providing health care services, many of which have been in business longer and/or have substantially more resources. Since there are virtually no substantial capital expenditures required for providing health care services, there are few financial barriers to entry the healthcare industry. Other companies could enter the healthcare industry in the future and divert some or all of our business. On a national basis, our competitors include, but are not limited to, Team Health, EmCare, DaVita and Heritage, each of which has greater financial and other resources available to them. We also compete with physician groups and privately-owned health care companies in local markets. In addition, our relationships with governmental and private third-party payors are not exclusive and our competitors have established or could seek to establish relationships with such payors to serve their covered patients. Competitors may also seek to compete with us for acquisitions, which could have the effect of increasing the price and reducing the number of suitable acquisitions, which would have an adverse impact on our growth strategy. Individual physicians, physician groups and companies in other healthcare industry segments, including those with which we have contracts, and some of which have greater financial, marketing and staffing resources, may become competitors in providing health care services, and this competition may have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial position.. Additionally, as we have expanded into palliative, home health and hospice care business lines, we face competitors who have traditionally concentrated in this area and may have greater resources and specialized expertise. In many areas in which our palliative, home health and hospice care programs are located, it competes with a large number of organizations, including community-based home health and hospice providers, national and regional companies, hospital-based home health agencies, hospice and palliative care programs and nursing homes.. We therefore may be unable to compete successfully and even after we expend significant resources.. New physicians and other providers must be properly enrolled in governmental healthcare programs before we can receive reimbursement for their services, and there may be delays in the enrollment process.. Each time a new physician joins us or our affiliated groups, we must enroll the physician under our applicable group identification number for Medicare and Medicaid programs and for certain managed care and private insurance programs before we can receive reimbursement for services the physician renders to beneficiaries of those programs. The estimated time to receive approval for the enrollment is sometimes difficult to predict and, in recent years, the Medicare program carriers often have not issued these numbers to our affiliated physicians in a timely manner. These practices result in delayed reimbursement that may adversely affect our cash flows.. 26. Hospitals where our affiliated physicians provide services may deny privileges to our physicians.. In general, our affiliated physicians may only provide services in a hospital where they have maintained certain credentials, also known as privileges, which are granted by the medical staff according to the bylaws of the hospital. The medical staff could decide that our affiliated physicians can no longer receive privileges to practice there. Such a decision would limit our ability to furnish services at the hospital, decrease the number of our affiliated physicians, or preclude us from entering new hospitals. In addition, hospitals may attempt to enter into exclusive contracts for certain physician services, which would reduce our access to patient populations within the hospital.. We may be impacted by eligibility changes to government and private insurance programs.. Due to potential decreased availability of healthcare through private employers, the number of patients who are uninsured or participate in governmental programs may increase. A shift in payor mix from managed care and other private payors to government payors or the uninsured may result in a reduction in our rates of reimbursement or an increase in our uncollectible receivables or uncompensated care, with a corresponding decrease in our net revenue. Changes in the eligibility requirements for governmental programs also could increase the number of patients who participate in such programs or the number of uninsured patients. Even for those patients who remain with private insurance, changes in those programs could increase patient responsibility amounts, resulting in a greater risk of uncollectible receivables for us. Further, our hospice related business could become subject to “quality star ratings” and, if sufficient quality is not achieved, reimbursement could be negatively impacted. These factors and events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Changes associated with reimbursements by third-party payors may adversely affect our operations.. The medical services industry is undergoing significant changes with government and other third-party payors that are taking measures to reduce reimbursement rates or, in some cases, denying reimbursement altogether. There is no assurance that government or other third-party payors will continue to pay for the services provided by our affiliated medical groups. Furthermore, there has been, and continues to be, a great deal of discussion and debate about the repeal and replacement of existing government reimbursement programs, such as the ACA. As a result, the future of healthcare reimbursement programs is uncertain, making long-term business planning difficult and imprecise. The failure of government or other third party payors to cover adequately the medical services provided by us could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our business may be significantly and adversely affected by legislative initiatives aimed at or having the effect of reducing healthcare costs associated with Medicare and other government healthcare programs and changes in reimbursement policies. In order to participate in the Medicare program, we must comply with stringent and often complex enrollment and reimbursement requirements. These programs generally provide for reimbursement on a fee-schedule basis rather than on a charge-related basis. As a result, we cannot increase our revenue by increasing the amount that we and our affiliates charge for services. To the extent that our costs increase, we may not be able to recover the increased costs from these programs. In addition, cost containment measures in non-governmental insurance plans have generally restricted our ability to recover, or shift to non-governmental payors, these increased costs. In attempts to limit federal and state spending, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of proposals to limit or reduce Medicare reimbursement for various services. For example, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 made numerous changes to Medicare, Medicaid, and other healthcare related programs, including new systems for establishing annual updates to Medicare rates for physicians’ services.. Our business also could be adversely affected by reductions in, or limitations of, reimbursement amounts or rates under these government programs, reductions in funding of these programs or elimination of coverage for certain individuals or treatments under these programs. For example, overall payments made by Medicare for hospice services are subject to cap amounts. Total Medicare payments to us for hospice services are subject to the cap amount for the hospice cap period, which runs from November 1 of one year through October 31 of the next year. CMS generally announces the cap amount in the month of July or August in the cap period and not at the beginning of the cap period. Accordingly, we must estimate the cap amount for the cap period before CMS announces the cap amount. If our estimate exceeds the later announced cap amount, we may suffer losses. CMS can also make retroactive adjustments to cap amounts announced for prior cap periods, in which case payments in excess of the cap amount must be returned to Medicare. There is another cap on hospice services that limits the number of days of inpatient care to not more than 20 percent of total patient care days within the cap period. We cannot predict whether any healthcare reform initiatives will be implemented, or whether changes in the administration of governmental healthcare programs or interpretations of governmental policies or other changes affecting the healthcare system will adversely affect our revenues. Further, due to budgetary concerns, several states have considered or are considering reducing or eliminating the Medicaid hospice benefit. Reductions or changes in Medicare or Medicaid funding could significantly reduce our net patient service revenue and our profitability.. We may have difficulty collecting payments from third-party payors in a timely manner.. We derive significant revenue from third-party payors, and delays in payment or refunds to payors may adversely impact our net revenue. We assume the financial risks relating to uncollectible and delayed payments. In particular, we reply on some key governmental payors. Governmental payors typically pay on a more extended payment cycle, which could require us to incur substantial expenses prior to receiving corresponding payments. In the current healthcare environment, as payors continue to control expenditures for healthcare services, including through revising their coverage and reimbursement policies, we may continue to experience difficulties in collecting payments from payors that may seek to reduce or delay such payments. If we are not timely paid in full or if we need to refund some payments, our revenues, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected.. 27. Decreases in payor rates could adversely affect us.. Decreases in payor rates, either prospectively or retroactively, could have a significant adverse effect on our revenues, cash flows and results of operations. For example, during fiscal 2016, Health Net reduced payor rates to its payees retroactive to July 1, 2015 and LA Care reduced payor rates to its payees retroactive to January 1, 2016.. Federal and state laws may limit our ability to collect monies owed by patients.. We use third-party collection agencies whom we do not control to collect from patients any co-payments and other payments for services that our physicians provide. The federal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act of 2977 (the “FDCPA”) restricts the methods that third-party collection companies may use to contact and seek payment from consumer debtors regarding past due accounts. State laws vary with respect to debt collection practices, although most state requirements are similar to those under the FDCPA. Therefore, such agencies may not be successful in collecting payments owed to us and our affiliated physician groups. If practices of collection agencies utilized by us are inconsistent with these standards, we may be subject to actual damages and penalties. These factors and events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We have established reserves for our potential medical claim losses which are subject to inherent uncertainties and a deficiency in the established reserves may lead to a reduction in our assets or net incomes.. We establish reserves for estimated IBNR claims. IBNR estimates are developed using actuarial methods and are based on many variables, including the utilization of health care services, historical payment patterns, cost trends, product mix, seasonality, changes in membership, and other factors. As our NGACO is recently established and no sufficient claims history is available for it, the medical liabilities for our NGACO are estimated and recorded at 100% of the revenue less actual claims processed for or paid to in-network providers (after taking into account the average discount negotiated with the in-network providers). We plan to use the traditional lag models as our NGACO’s claims history matures. The estimation methods and the resulting reserves are periodically reviewed and updated.. Many of our contracts are complex in nature and may be subject to differing interpretations regarding amounts due for the provision of various services. Such interpretations may not come to light until a substantial period of time has passed. The inherent difficulty in interpreting contracts and estimating necessary reserves could result in significant fluctuations in our estimates from period to period. Our actual losses and related expenses therefore may differ, even substantially, from the reserve estimates reflected in our financial statements. If actual claims exceed our estimated reserves, we may be required to increase reserves, which would lead to a reduction in our assets or net incomes.. Competition for qualified physicians, employees and management personnel is intense in the healthcare industry, and we may not be able to hire and retain qualified physicians and other personnel.. We depend on our affiliated physicians to provide services and generate revenue. We compete with many types of healthcare providers, including teaching, research and government institutions, hospitals and other practice groups, for the services of clinicians and management personnel. The limited number of residents and other licensed providers on the job market with the expertise necessary to provide services within our business makes it challenging to meet our hiring needs and may require us to train new employees, contract locum tenens physicians, or offer more attractive wage and benefit packages to experienced professionals, which could decrease our profit margins. The limited number of available residents and other licensed providers also impacts our ability to renew contracts with existing physicians on acceptable terms. As a result, our ability to provide services could be adversely affected. Even though our physician turnover rate has remained stable over the last three years, if the turnover rate were to increase significantly, our growth could be adversely affected. Moreover, unlike some of our competitors who sometimes pay additional compensation to physicians who agree to provide services exclusively to that competitor, our affiliated IPAs have historically not entered into such exclusivity agreements and have allowed our affiliated physicians to affiliate with multiple IPAs. This practice may place us at a competitive disadvantage regarding the hiring and retention of physicians relative to those competitors who do enter into such exclusivity agreements. The market for qualified nurses and therapists is also highly competitive, which may adversely affect our palliative, home health and hospice operations, which are particularly dependent on nurses for patient care.. Our risk-sharing arrangements with health plans and hospitals could result in costs exceeding the corresponding revenues, which could reduce or eliminate any shared risk profitability for us.. Under certain risk-sharing arrangements with health plans and hospitals, we are responsible for a portion of the cost of services that are not capitated. These risk-sharing arrangements generally allocate deficits to the respective parties when the cost of services exceeds the related revenue, and permit the parties to share surplus amounts when actual cost is less than the related revenue. The amount of non-capitated costs could be affected by factors beyond our control, such as changes in treatment protocols, new technologies, longer lengths of stay by the patient and inflation. To the extent that the cost is higher than anticipated, the related revenue may not be sufficient to cover the cost that we are partially responsible for, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. The healthcare industry is increasingly reliant on technology, which could increase our risks.. The role of technology is greatly increasing in the delivery of healthcare, which makes it difficult for traditional physician-driven companies, such as us, to adopt and integrate electronic health records, databases, cloud-based billing systems and many other technology applications in the delivery of healthcare services. Additionally, consumers are using mobile applications and care and cost research in selecting and usage of healthcare services. We may need to incur significant costs to implement these technology applications and comply with applicable laws. For example, the nature of our business and the requirements of healthcare privacy laws impose significant obligations on us to maintain privacy and protection of patient medical information. We rely on employees and third parties with technology knowledge and expertise and could be at risk if technology applications are not properly established, maintained or secured. Any cybersecurity incident, even unintended, could expose us to significant fines and remediation costs and materially impair our business operations and financial position.. 28. If we are unable to effectively adapt to changes in the healthcare industry, including changes to laws and regulations regarding or affecting the U.S. healthcare reform, our business may be harmed.. Due to the importance of the healthcare industry in the lives of all Americans, federal, state, and local legislative bodies frequently pass legislation and promulgate regulations relating to healthcare reform or that affect the healthcare industry. As has been the trend in recent years, it is reasonable to assume that there will continue to be increased government oversight and regulation of the healthcare industry in the future. We cannot assure our stockholders as to the ultimate content, timing or effect of any new healthcare legislation or regulations, nor is it possible at this time to estimate the impact of potential new legislation or regulations on our business. It is possible that future legislation enacted by Congress or state legislatures, or regulations promulgated by regulatory authorities at the federal or state level, could adversely affect our business or could change the operating environment of the hospitals and other facilities where our affiliated physicians provide services. It is possible that the changes to the Medicare, Medicaid or other governmental healthcare program reimbursements may serve as precedent to possible changes in other payors’ reimbursement policies in a manner averse to us. Similarly, changes in private payor reimbursements could lead to adverse changes in Medicare, Medicaid and other governmental healthcare programs which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Relating to NGACO.. The success of our emphasis on the new NGACO Model is uncertain.. In January 2017, CMS approved APAACO, our subsidiary, to participate in the NGACO Model. To position us to participate in the NGACO Model and meet its requirements, we have invested significant resources in reshaping our business and organizations and in establishing related infrastructure, and expect to continue to devote, significant financial and other resources to the NGACO Model. These efforts have required us to refocus away from certain other parts of our historic business and revenue streams, which will receive less emphasis and could result in reduced revenue from these activities for us. For example, we have converted physicians and patients from our MSSP ACOs to our NGACO. It is unknown whether this strategic decision will be eventually successful.. The NGACO Model has certain political risks and is undergoing changes.. If the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (the “ACA”) is amended, repealed, declared unconstitutional or replaced, or if Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation (“CMMI”) is terminated, the NGACO Model program could be discontinued or significantly altered. In addition, CMS and CMMI leadership could be changed and influenced by Congress and/or the current Trump Administration, and may elect to combine any existing programs, including bundled payments, which could greatly alter the NGACO Model program. The rules regarding NGACOs have also been altered and may be further altered in the future. Any material change to the NGACO requirements and governing rules or the discontinuation of the program as a whole could create significant uncertainties for us and alter our strategic direction, thereby increasing financial risks for our stockholders.. There are uncertainties regarding the design and administration of the NGACO Model and CMS’ initial financial reports to NGACO participants, which could negatively impact our results of operations.. Due to the newness of the NGACO Model, and due to being the only participant in the AIPBP track, we are subject to initial program challenges including, but not limited to, process design, data and other related aspects. We rely on CMS for design, oversight and governance of the NGACO Model. If CMS cannot provide accurate data, claims benchmarking and calculations, make timely payments and conduct periodic process reviews, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. CMS relies on various third parties to effect the NGACO program, including other departments of the U.S. government, such as CMMI. CMS also relies on multiple third party contractors to manage the NGACO Model program, including claims and auditing. As a result, there is the potential for errors, delays and poor communication among the differing entities involved, which are beyond the control of us. As CMS is implementing extensive reporting protocols for the NGACO Model, CMS has indicated that because of inherent biases in reporting the results, its initial financial reports under the NGACO Model may not be indicative of final results of actual risk-sharing and revenues which we receives. Were that to be the case, we might not report accurately our revenues for relevant periods, which could result in adjustment in a later period when we receive final results from CMS. We and our contracted providers have experienced various apparent errors in the NGACO Model, resulting in some providers terminating their relationships with us, and the resolution of these issues and impact on us remains uncertain. If we continue to experience such issues or new issues emerge, this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations on a consolidated basis.. We chose to participate in the AIPBP payment mechanism, which entails certain special risks.. Under the AIPBP payment mechanism, CMS estimates the total annual Part A and Part B Medicare expenditures of our assigned Medicare beneficiaries and pay us that projected amount in per beneficiary per month payments. We chose “Risk Arrangement A,” comprising 80% risk for Part A and Part B Medicare expenditures and a shared savings and losses cap of 5% (or a 4% effective shared savings and losses cap when factoring in 80% risk impact). Our benchmark Medicare Part A and Part B expenditures for beneficiaries for the 2017 performance year are approximately $335 million, and under “Risk Arrangement A” of the AIPBP payment mechanism we could therefore have profits or be liable for losses of up to 4% of such benchmarked expenditures, or approximately $13.4 million. While performance can be monitored throughout the year, end results will not be known until mid-2018.. 29. AIPBP operations and benchmarking calculations are complex and could result in uncertainties for us.. AIPBP operations and benchmarking calculations are complex and can lead to errors in the application of the NGACO Model, which could create reimbursement delays to our contracted, in-network providers and adversely affect our performance and results of operations. For example, we discovered a feature in the AIPBP claim processing system that does not allow us to break down certain claims amounts by individual patient codes. This has created confusion for our in-network providers in reconciling payments, causing some providers to terminate their agreements with us. This feature and other complexities within the AIPBP payment mechanism could also create uncertainties for our operations including under agreements with our contracted, in-network providers.. The NGACO Model requires significant capital reserves for program participation, which could negatively impact our working capital and substantially increase our capital requirements.. NGACOs must provide a financial guarantee to CMS. Our financial guarantee generally must be in an amount of 2% of our benchmark Medicare Part A and Part B expenditures. Because our benchmark Medicare Part A and Part B expenditures for beneficiaries assigned to us for the 2017 performance year was approximately $335 million, we submitted a letter of credit for $6.7 million with respect to that year. If we reach the maximum of our shared losses for a performance year, CMS may increase the risk reserve amount for future performance years, which will put restraints on our working capital and liquidity. If we reach the maximum of our shared losses of $13.4 million for the 2017 performance year, we will need to pay another $6.7 million to CMS and CMS may increase the future risk reserve amount. Additionally, the incurred but not reported (“IBNR”) methodology utilized by CMS could have a negative impact on us and increase our working capital and capital requirements as we may not only be responsible for reported losses but also for IBNR losses. Since we could only estimate how many of these losses may occur and the severity of each loss, our ultimate losses may far exceed our capital reserves.. We may suffer losses and not generate savings through our participation in the NGACO Model.. Through the NGACO Model, CMS provides an opportunity to provider groups are willing to assume higher levels of financial risk and reward, to participate in this new attribution-based risk sharing model. The NGACO Model uses a prospectively-set cost benchmark, which is established prior to the start of each performance year. The benchmark is based on various factors, including baseline expenditures with the baseline updated each year to reflect the NGACO’s participant list for the given year. Our 2017 performance year baseline is based on calendar year 2014 expenditures that are risk adjusted and trended. A discount is then applied that incorporates regional and national efficiency. The benchmarked expenditures therefore could potentially underestimate our actual expenditures for assigned Medicare beneficiaries and there can be no assurance that we could successfully adjust such benchmarked expenditures. Under the NGACO Model, we are responsible for savings and losses related to care received by assigned patients by covering claims from physicians, nurses and other medical professionals. If claim costs exceed the benchmarked expenditures, or the baseline years are statistical anomalies, we could experience losses, which could be significant. As we through APAACO are providing care coordination but do not provide direct patient care, our influence could be limited. Because of our limited influence, it is possible that we may not be able to control care providers’ behavior, utilization and costs. As a result, we may not be able to generate savings through our participation in the NGACO Model to cover our administrative and care coordination operating costs, and any savings generated, if at all, will be earned in arrears and uncertain in both timing and amount.. We do not control, but are responsible for savings and losses related to, care received by assigned patients at out-of-network providers, which could negatively impact our ability to control claim costs.. Medicare beneficiaries in the NGACO Model are not required to receive care from a specified network of contracted providers and facilities, which could make it difficult for us to control the financial risks of those beneficiaries. CMS notified us that its Medicare beneficiaries historically had received approximately 62% of care at non-contracted, out-of-network (“OON”) providers. While not responsible for directly paying claims for OON providers, we may have difficulty managing patient care and costs in relation to such OON providers as compared to contracted, in-network providers, which, could adversely impact our financial results as we are responsible for savings and losses of assigned beneficiaries, irrespective of whether they using in-network or OON providers. In addition, even if we are successful in encouraging more assigned patients to receive care from our contracted, in-network providers, there is the possibility that the monthly AIPBP payments from CMS will be insufficient to cover our expenditures, since the AIPBP payments is generally based on historical in-network/out-of-network ratios. If CMS fails to monitor the in-network/OON provider ratio for our assigned patients on a frequent basis or CMS’ reconciliation payments to us are not timely made, this could result in negative cash flows for us, especially if increased payments will need to be made to our contracted, in-network providers.. Third parties used by us could hinder our performance.. We use third parties to perform certain administrative and care coordination tasks. We have contracted with participating Part A and Part B providers and sometimes with discounted rates. This could, however, create operational and performance risk; for example, if a third party does not perform its responsibilities properly. In addition, such providers could increase their current rates or discontinue their agreements with us.. 30. We face competition from traditional MSSP ACOs and other NGACOs. Managed care providers experienced in coordinating care for populations of patients compete with each other to be selected by CMS to participate in the NGACO Model. Since MSSP and pioneer ACOs began in 2012, the number of Medicare ACOs continues to rise and have grown to several hundred nationwide but there are still a growing number of ACOs in different program types that compete with us for resources and patients.. Our continued participation in the NGACO Model cannot be guaranteed.. We and CMS entered into a Next Generation ACO Model Participation Agreement (the “Participation Agreement”) with a term of two performance years through December 31, 2018. CMS may offer to renew the Participation Agreement for additional terms of two performance years but if the agreement is not renewed, we will not be able to continue to participate in the NGACO Model. In addition, the Participation Agreement may be terminated sooner by CMS as specified therein and CMS has the flexibility to alter or change the program over time. Among many requirements to be eligible to participate in the NGACO Model, we must have at least 10,000 assigned Medicare beneficiaries and must maintain that number throughout each performance year. Although we started the 2017 performance year with more than 33,000 assigned Medicare beneficiaries, there can be no assurance that we will maintain the required number of assigned Medicare beneficiaries. If that number were not maintained, we would become ineligible for the NGACO Model. In addition, we are required to comply with all applicable laws and regulations regarding provider-based risk-bearing entities. If these laws or regulations change, for example, to require a Knox-Keene license in California, which we do not currently have, we could be required to cease our NGACO operations. We could be terminated from the NGACO Model at any time if we do not continue to comply with the NGACO participation requirements. In October 2017, CMS notified us that it would not be renewed for participation in the AIPBP mechanism for performance year 2018 due to alleged deficiencies in performance by us. We submitted a request for reconsideration to CMS. In December, 2017, we received the official decision on our reconsideration request that CMS reversed the prior decision against our continued participation in the AIPBP mechanism. As a result, we are eligible for receiving monthly AIPBP payments (currently at a rate of approximately $7.3 million per month) from CMS in 2018. We, however, will need to continue to comply with all terms and conditions in the Participation Agreement and various regulatory requirements to be eligible to participate in the AIPBP mechanism and/or NGACO Model. If future compliance or performance issues arise, we may lose our current eligibility and may be subject to CMS’ enforcement or contract actions, including our potential inability to participate in the AIPBP mechanism (where the payment mechanism would default to traditional fee for service) or dismissal from the NGACO Model, which would have a material adverse effect on our revenues and cash flows. In addition, the payments from CMS to us will decrease if the number of beneficiaries assigned to our NGACO declines, or the contracted providers terminate their relationships with us, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations on a consolidated basis.. Risks Relating to Regulatory Compliance.. Laws regulating the corporate practice of medicine could restrict the manner in which we are permitted to conduct our business and the failure to comply with such laws could subject us to penalties and restructuring.. Some states have laws that prohibit business entities from practicing medicine, employing physicians to practice medicine, exercising control over medical decisions by physicians (also known collectively as the corporate practice of medicine) or engaging in some arrangements, such as fee-splitting, with physicians. In some states these prohibitions are expressly stated in a statute or regulation, while in other states the prohibition is a matter of judicial or regulatory interpretation. California is one of the states that prohibit the corporate practice of medicine.. In California, we operate by maintaining contracts with our affiliated physician groups which are each owned and operated by physicians and which employ or contract with additional physicians to provide physician services. Under these arrangements, we or our subsidiaries provide management services, receive a management fee for providing management services, do not represent to offer medical services, and do not exercise influence or control over the practice of medicine by the physicians or the affiliated physician groups.. In addition to the above management arrangements, in certain instances, we have contractual rights relating to the transfer of equity interests in our affiliated physician groups under physician shareholder agreements that we entered into with the controlling equity holder of such affiliated physician groups. However, even in such instances, such equity interests cannot be transferred to or held by us or by any non-professional organization. Accordingly, we do not directly own any equity interests in any affiliated physician groups in California. In the event that any of these affiliated physician groups or their equity holders fail to comply with these management or ownership transfer arrangements, these arrangements are terminated, we are unable to enforce such arrangements, or these arrangements are invalidated under applicable laws, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and we may have to restructure our organization and change our arrangements with our affiliated physician groups, which may not be successful.. The healthcare industry is intensely regulated at the federal, state, and local levels and government authorities may determine that we fail to comply with applicable laws or regulations and take actions against us.. As a company involved in providing healthcare services, we are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations. There are significant costs involved in complying with these laws and regulations. If we are found to have violated any applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to civil and/or criminal damages, fines, sanctions or penalties, including exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and we may be required to change our method of operations and business strategy. These consequences could be the result of our current conduct or even conduct that occurred a number of years ago, including prior to the completion of the Merger. We could incur significant costs to defend ourselves if we become the subject of an investigation or legal proceeding alleging a violation of these laws and regulations. We cannot predict whether a federal, state or local government will determine that we are not operating in accordance with law, or whether, when or how the laws will change in the future and impact our business. The following is a non-exhaustive list of some of the more significant healthcare laws and regulations that could affect us:. 31. ·     the False Claims Act, that provide for penalties against entities and individuals which knowingly or recklessly make claims to Medicare, Medicaid, and other governmental healthcare programs, as well as third-party payors, that contain or are based upon false or fraudulent information;. ·     a provision of the Social Security Act, commonly referred to as the “Anti-Kickback Statute,” that prohibits the knowing and willful offering, payment, solicitation or receipt of any bribe, kickback, rebate or other remuneration, in cash or in kind, in return for the referral or recommendation of patients for items and services covered, in or in part, by federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid;. ·     a provision of the Social Security Act, commonly referred to as the Stark Law or physician self-referral law, that (subject to limited exceptions) prohibits physicians from referring Medicare patients to an entity for the provision of specific “designated health services” if the physician or a member of such physician’s immediate family has a direct or indirect financial relationship with the entity, and prohibits the entity from billing for services arising out of such prohibited referrals;. ·     a provision of the Social Security Act that provides for criminal penalties on healthcare providers who fail to disclose known overpayments;. ·     a provision of the Social Security Act that provides for civil monetary penalties on healthcare providers who fail to repay known overpayments within 60 days of identification or the date any corresponding cost report was due, if applicable, and also allows improper retention of known overpayments to serve as a basis for False Claims Act violations;. ·     provisions of the Social Security Act (emanating from the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (the “DRA”)) that require entities that make or receive annual Medicaid payments of $5 million or more from a single Medicaid program to provide its employees, contractors and agents with written policies and employee handbook materials on federal and state false claims acts and related statutes, that establish a new Medicaid Integrity Program designed to enhance federal and state efforts to detect Medicaid fraud, waste, and abuse, and that increase financial incentives for both states and individuals to bring fraud and abuse claims against healthcare companies;. ·     state law provisions pertaining to anti-kickback, self-referral and false claims issues;. ·     provisions of, and regulations relating to, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) that provide penalties for knowingly and willfully executing a scheme or artifice to defraud a health-care benefit program or falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any material false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services;. ·     provisions of HIPAA and the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009 (“HITECH”) limiting how covered entities, business associates and business associate sub-contractors may use and disclose patient health information (“PHI”) and the security measures that must be taken in connection with protecting that information and related systems, as well as similar or more stringent state laws;. ·     federal and state laws that provide penalties for providers for billing and receiving payments from a governmental healthcare program for services unless the services are medically necessary and reasonable, adequately and accurately documented, and billed using codes that accurately reflect the type and level of services rendered;. ·     state laws that provide for financial solvency requirements relating to risk-bearing organizations (“RBOs”), plan operations, plan-affiliate operations and transactions, plan-provider contractual relationships and provider-affiliate operations and transactions, such as California Business & Professions Code Section 1375.4 (§ 1375.4; Cal. Code Regs., tit. 28, § 1300.75.4 et seq.);. ·     federal laws that provide for administrative sanctions, including civil monetary penalties for, among other violations, inappropriate billing of services to federal healthcare programs, payments by hospitals to physicians for reducing or limiting services to Medicare or Medicaid patients, or employing or contracting with individuals or entities who/which are excluded from participation in federal healthcare programs;. ·     federal and state laws and policies that require healthcare providers to enroll in the Medicare and Medicaid programs before submitting any claims for services, to promptly report certain changes in its operations to the agencies that administer these programs, and to re-enroll in these programs when changes in direct or indirect ownership occur or in response to revalidation requests from Medicare and Medicaid;. ·     state laws that prohibit general business entities from practicing medicine, controlling physicians’ medical decisions or engaging in certain practices, such as splitting fees with physicians;. 32. ·     state laws that require timely payment of claims, including §1371.38, et al, of the California Health & Safety Code, which imposes time limits for the payment of uncontested covered claims and required health care service plans to pay interest on uncontested claims not paid promptly within the required time period;. ·     laws in some states that prohibit non-domiciled entities from owning and operating medical practices in such states; and. ·     federal and state laws and regulations restricting the techniques that may be used to collect past due accounts from consumers, such as our patients, for services provided to the consumer.. Any violation or alleged violation of any of these laws or regulations by us or our affiliates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in healthcare laws could create an uncertain environment and materially impact us. We cannot predict the effect that the ACA (also known as Obamacare) and its implementation, amendment, or repeal and replacement, may have on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Any changes in healthcare laws or regulations that reduce, curtail or eliminate payments, government-subsidized programs, government-sponsored programs, and/or the expansion of Medicare or Medicaid, among other actions, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. For example, the ACA dramatically changed how healthcare services are covered, delivered, and reimbursed. The ACA requires insurers to accept all applicants, regardless of pre-existing conditions, cover an extensive list of conditions and treatments, and charge the same rates, regardless of pre-existing condition or gender. The ACA and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the “Health Care Reform Acts”) also mandated changes specific to home health and hospice benefits under Medicare. In 2012, the U.S. Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of the ACA, including the “individual mandate” provisions of the ACA that generally require all individuals to obtain healthcare insurance or pay a penalty. However, the U.S. Supreme Court also held that the provision of the ACA that authorized the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) to penalize states that choose not to participate in the expansion of the Medicaid program by removing all of its existing Medicaid funding was unconstitutional. In response to the ruling, a number of state governors opposed its state’s participation in the expanded Medicaid program, which resulted in the ACA not providing coverage to some low-income persons in those states. In addition, several bills have been, and are continuing to be, introduced in U.S. Congress to amend all or significant provisions of the ACA, or repeal and replace the ACA with another law. In December 2017, the individual mandate was repealed via the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. Afterwards, legal and political challenges as to the constitutionality of the remaining provisions of the ACA resumed. Just as the fate of the ACA is uncertain, so is the future of care organizations established under the ACA such as ACOs and NGACOs. Under its NGACO Participation Agreement with CMS, our operations are always subject to the nation’s healthcare laws, as amended, repealed or replaced from time to time.. The net effect of the ACA on our business is subject to numerous variables, including the law’s complexity, lack of complete implementing regulations and interpretive guidance, gradual and potentially delayed implementation or possible amendment, as well as the uncertainty as to the extent to which states will choose to participate in the expanded Medicaid program. The continued implementation of provisions of the ACA, the adoption of new regulations thereunder and ongoing challenges thereto, also added uncertainty about the current state of U.S. healthcare laws and could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Healthcare providers could be subject to federal and state investigations and payor audits.. Due to our and our affiliates’ participation in government and private healthcare programs, we are from time to time involved in inquiries, reviews, audits and investigations by governmental agencies and private payors of our business practices, including assessments of our compliance with coding, billing and documentation requirements. Federal and state government agencies have active civil and criminal enforcement efforts against healthcare companies, and their executives and managers. The DRA, which provides a financial incentive to states to enact their own false claims acts, and similar laws encourage investigations against healthcare companies by different agencies. These investigations could also be initiated by private whistleblowers. Responding to audit and investigative activities are costly and disruptive to our business operations, even when the allegations are without merit. If we are subject to an audit or investigation, a finding could be made that we or our affiliates erroneously billed or were incorrectly reimbursed, and we may be required to repay such agencies or payors, may be subjected to pre-payment reviews, which can be time-consuming and result in non-payment or delayed payments for the services we or our affiliates provide, and may be subject to financial sanctions or required to modify our operations.. 33. Controls designed to reduce inpatient services and associated costs may reduce our revenues.. Controls imposed by Medicare, Medicaid and private payors designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as “utilization review,” have affected and are expected to continue to affect our operations. Federal law contains numerous provisions designed to ensure that services rendered by hospitals and other care providers to Medicare and Medicaid patients meet professionally recognized standards and are medically necessary and that claims for reimbursement are properly filed. These provisions include a requirement that a sampling of admissions of Medicare and Medicaid patients must be reviewed by quality improvement organizations, which review the appropriateness of Medicare and Medicaid patient admissions and discharges, the quality of care provided, and the appropriateness of cases of extraordinary length of stay or cost on a post-discharge basis. Quality improvement organizations may deny payment for services or assess fines and also have the authority to recommend to the HHS that a provider is in substantial noncompliance with the standards of the quality improvement organization and should be excluded from participation in the Medicare program. The ACA potentially expands the use of prepayment review by Medicare contractors by eliminating statutory restrictions on its use, and, as a result, efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. Utilization review is also a requirement of most non-governmental managed care organizations and other third-party payors. Inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payor-required preadmission authorization and utilization review and by third party payor pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative healthcare delivery services for less acutely ill patients. Although we are unable to predict the effect these controls and any changes thereto may have on our operations, significant limits on the scope of our services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. We do not have any Knox-Keene license.. The Knox-Keene Health Care Service Plan Act of 1975 was passed by the California State Legislature to regulate California managed care plans and is currently administered by the Department of Managed Healthcare (the “DMHC”). A Knox-Keene Act license is required to operate a health care service plan, e.g., an HMO, or an organization that accepts global risk, i.e., accepts full risk for a patient population, including risk related to institutional services, e.g., hospital, and professional services. Applying for and obtaining such a license is a time consuming and detail-oriented undertaking. We currently do not hold any Knox-Keene license. If the DMHC were to determine that we have been inappropriately taking risk for institutional and professional services as a result of our various hospital and physician arrangements without having any Knox-Keene license, we may be required to obtain a Knox-Keene license and could be subject to civil and criminal liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If our affiliated physician groups are not able to satisfy California financial solvency regulations, they could become subject to sanctions and their ability to do business in California could be limited or terminated.. The DMHC has instituted financial solvency regulations. The regulations are intended to provide a formal mechanism for monitoring the financial solvency of a RBO in California, including capitated physician groups. Under current DMHC regulations, our affiliated physician groups, as applicable, are required to, among other things:. ·     Maintain, at all times, a minimum “cash-to-claims ratio” (which means the organization’s cash, marketable securities, and certain qualified receivables, divided by the organization’s total unpaid claims liability) of 0.75; and. ·     Submit periodic reports to the DMHC containing various data and     attestations regarding their performance and financial solvency, including IBNR calculations and documentation and     attestations as to whether or not the organization (i) was in compliance with the “Knox-Keene Act requirements related     to claims payment timeliness, (ii) had maintained positive tangible net equity (“TNE”), and (iii) had maintained positive working     capital.. In the event that a physician group is not in compliance with any of the above criteria, it would be required to describe in a report submitted to the DMHC the reasons for non-compliance and actions to be taken to bring it into compliance. Under such regulations, the DMHC can also make some of the information contained in the reports public, including, but not limited to, whether or not a particular physician organization met each of the criteria. In the event any of our affiliated physician groups are not able to meet certain of the financial solvency requirements, and fail to meet subsequent corrective action plans, it could be subject to sanctions, or limitations on, or removal of, its ability to do business in California. There can be no assurance that our affiliated physician groups, such as our IPAs, will remain in compliance with DMHC requirements or be able to timely and adequately rectify non-compliance. To the extent that we need to provide additional capital to our affiliated physician groups in the future in order to comply with DMHC regulations, we would have less cash available for other parts of our operations. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, our IPA, MMG, was not in compliance with certain DMHC requirements, related to maintaining positive TNE for the required periods. As a result, the California DMHC required MMG to develop and implement a corrective action plan (“CAP”) for such deficiency. The CAP has been submitted and is under review by DMHC. To the extent that we will be required to contribute additional capital to MMG, we would have less available cash to use on other parts of our business.. Our revenue will be negatively impacted if our physicians fail to appropriately document their services.. We rely upon our affiliated physicians to appropriately and accurately complete necessary medical record documentation and assign appropriate reimbursement codes for their services. Reimbursement is conditioned upon, in part, our affiliated physicians providing the correct procedure and diagnosis codes and properly documenting the services themselves, including the level of service provided and the medical necessity for the services. If our affiliated physicians have provided incorrect or incomplete documentation or selected inaccurate reimbursement codes, this could result in nonpayment for services rendered or lead to allegations of billing fraud. This could subsequently lead to civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion from government healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. In addition, third-party payors may disallow, in whole or in part, requests for reimbursement based on determinations that certain amounts are not covered, services provided were not medically necessary, or supporting documentation was not adequate. Retroactive adjustments may change amounts realized from third-party payors and result in recoupments or refund demands, affecting revenue already received.. Primary care physicians may seek to affiliate with our and our competitors’ IPAs at the same time.. It is common in the medical services industry for primary care physicians to be affiliated with multiple IPAs. Our affiliated IPAs therefore may enter into agreements with physicians who are also affiliated with our competitors. However, some of our competitors at times have agreements with physicians that require the physician to provide exclusive services. Our affiliated IPAs often have no knowledge, and no way of knowing, whether a physician is subject to an exclusivity agreement without being informed by the physician. Competitors have initiated lawsuits against us alleging in part interference with such exclusivity arrangements, and may do so in the future. An adverse outcome from any such lawsuit could adversely affect our business, cash flows and financial condition.. 34. If we inadvertently employ or contract with an excluded person, we may face government sanctions.. Individuals and entities can be excluded from participating in the Medicare and Medicaid programs for violating certain laws and regulations, or for other reasons such as the loss of a license in any state, even if the person retains other licensure. This means that the excluded person and others are prohibited from receiving payments for such person’s services rendered to Medicare or Medicaid beneficiaries, and if the excluded person is a physician, all services ordered (not just provided) by such physician are also non-covered and non-payable. Entities which employ or contract with excluded individuals are prohibited from billing the Medicare or Medicaid programs for the excluded individual’s services, and are subject to civil penalties if it does. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of the Inspector General (“OIG”) maintains a list of excluded persons. Although we have instituted policies and procedures to minimize such risks, there can be no assurance that we will not inadvertently hire or contract with an excluded person, or that our employees or contracts will not become excluded in the future without our knowledge. If this occurs, we may be subject to substantial repayments and civil penalties, and the hospitals at which we furnish services may also be subject to repayments and sanctions, for which they may seek recovery from us, which could adversely affect our business, cash flows and financial condition.. Our home health, hospice and palliative care business lines are subject to rules, regulations and reimbursement requirements, which will require us to expend resources. Our palliative care business is subject to additional laws and regulations that differ from those that govern our home health and hospice operations.. There are state licensure requirements that must be met by hospice programs in order for them to deliver care. In addition, hospices must comply with federal regulations in order to be approved for reimbursement under Medicare. In 2013, California enacted the Home Care Services Consumer Protection Act, which established a licensing program for home care organizations, and requires background checks, basic training and tuberculosis screening for the aides that are employed by home care organizations. Our home care organizations and aides are subject to such licensing and background check requirements, which impose additional costs on us. The California Domestic Workers' Bill of Rights, which went into effect in 2014, makes private healthcare aides and other domestic workers in California eligible for overtime pay if they work more than nine hours a day or 45 hours a week.. We have developed our palliative care services, which is a type of care focused upon relieving pain and suffering in patients who do not qualify for, or who have not yet elected, hospice services. The continued development of this business line exposes us to additional risks because the business line requires us to comply with laws and regulations that differ from those that govern our home health and hospice business, such as federal and state requirements governing licensure, enrollment, documentation, prescribing, coding, billing, collection of coinsurance and deductibles, corporate practice of medicine and fee-splitting. Reimbursement for palliative care and house calls services is generally conditioned on clinical professionals providing the correct procedure and diagnosis codes and properly documenting both the service itself and the medical necessity for the service. Incorrect or incomplete documentation and billing information, or the incorrect selection of codes for the level and type of service provided, could result in non-payment for services rendered or lead to allegations of billing fraud.. Compliance with applicable rules and regulations for our home health, hospice and palliative care business lines may cause us to incur unexpected expenses, and if we are unable to comply with these legal requirements, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Compliance with federal and state privacy and data security laws is expensive, and we may be subject to government or private actions due to privacy and security breaches.. We must comply with various federal and state laws and regulations governing the collection, dissemination, access, use, security and confidentiality of patient health information (“PHI”), including HIPAA and HITECH. As part of our medical record keeping, third-party billing, and other services, we collect and maintain PHI in paper and electronic format. Privacy and data security laws and regulations thus could have a significant effect on the manner in which we handle healthcare-related data and communicates with payors. In addition, compliance with these standards could limit our ability to offer services, thereby negatively impacting the business opportunities available to us. Despite our efforts to prevent privacy and security breaches, it may still occur. If any non-compliance with such laws and regulations results in privacy or security breaches, we could be subject to monetary fines, suits, penalties or sanctions. As a result of the expanded scope of HIPAA through HITECH, we may incur significant costs in order to minimize the amount of “unsecured PHI” that we handle and retain and/or to implement improved administrative, technical or physical safeguards to protect PHI. We may have to demonstrate and document our compliance efforts, even if there is a low probability that PHI has been compromised, in order to overcome the presumption that an impermissible use or disclosure of PHI results in a reportable breach. We may incur significant costs to notify the relevant individuals, government entities and, in some cases, the media, in the event of a breach and to provide appropriate remediation and monitoring to mitigate any potential damage.. 35. We may be subject to liability for failure to fully comply with applicable corporate and securities laws.. We are subject to various corporate and securities laws. Any failure to comply with such laws, such as ApolloMed’s failing to file information statements for two corporate actions taken by its majority stockholders in written consents in 2012 and 2013, could cause government agencies to take action against us, which could restrict our ability to issue securities and result in fines or penalties. Any claim brought by such an agency could also cause us to expend resources to defend ourselves, divert the attention of our management from our business and could significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition, even if the claim is resolved in our favor.. Further, at ApolloMed’s 2016 annual meeting, its stockholders voted on the frequency of their future votes on its executive compensation. ApolloMed inadvertently failed to file, within 150 days after the meeting, a Form 8-K amendment to disclose its decision as to how frequently it will hold such a vote, resulting in ApolloMed’s failing to file all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act for at least 12 months before filing certain subsequent periodic and other reports. Such failure may adversely affect the effectiveness of ApolloMed’s registration statement on Form S-8 filed in May 2016 and we may need to refile such registration statement. This failure also hinders our ability to issue securities in certain transactions and raise additional capital, including being unable to use Form S-3 for a substantial period of time, and may subject us to other restrictions or fines or penalties.. In addition, a plaintiffs’ securities law firm announced that it was investigating ApolloMed and its pre-Merger board of directors for potential federal law violations and breaches of fiduciary duties in connection with the Merger. This investigation purportedly focused on whether ApolloMed and its board of directors violated federal securities laws or breached their fiduciary duties to ApolloMed’s stockholders by failing to properly value the Merger and failing to disclose all material information in connection with the Merger. As of filing this Annual Report on Form 10-K, no lawsuit has been filed against us by that firm and no resolution has been reached.. We cannot preclude the possibility that claims or lawsuits brought relating to any alleged securities law violations or breaches of fiduciary duty in connection with the Merger could potentially require significant time and resources to defend and/or settle and distract our management and board of directors from focusing on our business.. We may face lawsuits not covered by insurance and related expenses may be material. Our failure to avoid, defend and accrue for claims and litigation could negatively impact our results of operations or cash flows.. We are exposed to and become involved in various litigation matters arising out of our business, including from time to time, actual or threatened lawsuits. Malpractice lawsuits are common in the healthcare industry. The medical malpractice legal environment varies greatly by state. The status of tort reform, availability of non-economic damages or the presence or absence of other statutes, such as elder abuse or vulnerable adult statutes, influence the incidence and severity of malpractice litigation. We may also be subject to other types of lawsuits, such as those initiated by our competitors, stockholders, employees, service providers, contractors or by government agencies, including when we terminate relationships with them, which may involve large claims and significant defense costs. Many states have joint and several liabilities for providers who deliver care to a patient and are at least partially liable. As a result, if one provider is found liable for medical malpractice for the provision of care to a particular patient, all other providers who furnished care to that same patient, including possibly us and our affiliated physicians, may also share in the liability, which could be substantial individually or in aggregate.. The defense of litigation, including fees of legal counsel, expert witnesses and related costs, is expensive and difficult to forecast accurately. Such costs may be unrecoverable even if we ultimately prevail in litigation and could consume a significant portion of our limited capital resources. To defend lawsuits, it may also be necessary for us to divert officers and other employees from our normal business functions to gather evidence, give testimony and otherwise support litigation efforts. If we lose any material litigation, we could face material judgments or awards against them. An unfavorable resolution of one or more of the proceedings in which we are involved now or in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows and financial condition. We may also in the future find it necessary to file lawsuits to recover damages or protect our interests. The cost of such litigation could also be significant and unrecoverable, which may also deter us from aggressively pursuing even legitimate claims.. We currently maintain malpractice liability insurance coverage to cover professional liability and other claims for certain hospitalists and clinic physicians. All of our affiliated physicians are required to carry first dollar coverage with limits of coverage equal to $1,000,000 for all claims based on occurrence up to an aggregate of $3,000,000 per year. We cannot be certain that our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover liabilities arising out of claims asserted against us, our affiliated professional organizations or our affiliated physicians. Liabilities incurred by us or our affiliates in excess of our insurance coverage, including coverage for professional liability and other claims, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our professional liability insurance coverage generally must be renewed annually and may not continue to be available to us in future years at acceptable costs and on favorable terms, which could increase our exposure to litigation.. We may also be subject to laws and regulations not specifically targeting the healthcare industry.. Certain regulations not specifically targeting the healthcare industry also could have material effects on our operations. For example, the California Finance Lenders Law (the “CFLL”), Division 9, Sections 22000-22780 of the California Financial Code, could be applied to us as a result of our various affiliate and subsidiary loans and similar arrangements. If a regulator were to take the position that such loans were covered by the California Finance Lenders Law, we could be subject to regulatory action which could impair our ability to continue to operate and may have a material adverse effect on our profitability and business as we currently do not hold a CFLL licensure. Pursuant to an exemption under the CFLL, a person may make five or fewer commercial loans in a 12-month period without a CFLL licensure if the loans are “incidental” to the business of the person. This exemption, however, creates some uncertainty as to which loans could be deemed as incidental to our business. In addition, a person without a CFLL licensure may also make a single commercial loan in a 12-month period without the loan being “incidental” to such person’s s business but this single-loan exemption is currently set to expire on January 1, 2022.. 36. Risks Relating to the Ownership of ApolloMed’s Common Stock.. We have to meet certain requirements in order to remain as a NASDAQ-listed public company.. As a public company, ApolloMed is required to comply with various regulatory and reporting requirements, including those required by the SEC. After ApolloMed uplisted to NASDAQ in December 2017, it is also subject to NASDAQ listing rules. Complying with these requirements is time-consuming and expensive. No assurance can be given that ApolloMed can continue to meet the SEC reporting and NASDAQ listing requirements.. ApolloMed’s common stock may continue to be thinly traded and its market price may be subject to fluctuations and volatility. Stockholders may be unable to sell their shares at a profit and might incur losses.. The trading price of ApolloMed’s common stock was volatile and may continue to be so from time to time. The price at which ApolloMed’s common stock trades could be subject to significant fluctuation and may be affected by a variety of factors, including the trading volume, our results of operations, the announcement and consummation of certain transactions, our ability or inability to raise additional capital and the terms thereof, and therefore could fluctuate, and decline, significantly. Other factors that may cause the market price of ApolloMed’s common stock to fluctuate include:. ·     variations in our operating results, such as actual or anticipated quarterly and annual increases or decreases in revenue, gross margin or earnings;. ·     changes in our business, operations or prospects, including announcements relating to strategic relationships, mergers, acquisitions, partnerships, collaborations, joint ventures, capital commitments, or other events by us or our competitors;. ·     announcements of acquisitions, dispositions and other corporate transactions as well as financings and other capital raising transactions;. ·     developments, conditions or trends in the healthcare industry;. ·     changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other healthcare-related companies;. ·     general market conditions or domestic or international macroeconomic and geopolitical factors unrelated to our performance or financial condition;. ·     sales of stock by ApolloMed’s stockholders generally and ApolloMed’s larger stockholders, including insiders, in particular, including sale or distributions of large blocks of common stock by our executives and directors;. ·     volatility and limitations in trading volumes of ApolloMed’s common stock and the stock market;. ·     approval, maintenance and withdrawal of our and our affiliates’ certificates, permits, registration, licensure, certification and accreditation by the applicable regulatory or other oversight bodies;. ·     our financing activities, including our ability to obtain financings and prices that we sell our equity securities, including notes convertible to and warrants to purchase shares of ApolloMed’s common stock;. ·     failures to meet external expectations or management guidance;. ·     changes in our capital structure and cash position;. ·     analyst research reports on ApolloMed’s common stock, including analysts’ recommendations and changes in recommendations, price targets, and withdrawals of coverage;. ·     departures and additions of our key personnel, including our officers or directors;. ·     disputes and litigations related to intellectual properties, proprietary rights, and contractual obligations;. ·     changes in applicable laws, rules, regulations, or accounting practices and other dynamics; and. ·     other events or factors, many of which may be out of our control.. There may continue to be a limited trading market for ApolloMed’s common stock. A lack of an active market may contribute to stock price volatility or supply/demand imbalances, make an investment in ApolloMed’s common stock less attractive to certain investors, impair the ability of ApolloMed’s stockholders to sell shares at the time they desire or at a price that they consider favorable. The lack of an active market may also reduce the fair market value of ApolloMed’s common stock, impair our ability to raise capital by selling shares of ApolloMed’s common stock or use such stock as consideration to attract and retain talent or engage in business transactions.. 37. If analysts, do not report about us, or negatively evaluate us, ApolloMed’s stock price could decline.. The trading market for ApolloMed’s common stock will rely in part on the availability of research and reports that third-party analysts publish about us. There are many large companies active in the healthcare industry, which make it more difficult for us to receive widespread coverage. Furthermore, if one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgrade ApolloMed’s common stock, its price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us, we could lose market visibility, which in turn could cause ApolloMed’s stock price to decline.. Our current principal stockholders, executive officers and directors have significant influence over our operations and strategic direction and they could cause us to take actions with which other stockholders might not agree and could delay, deter or prevent a change of control or a business combination with respect to us.. As of December 31, 2017, our executive officers, directors, five percent or greater stockholders and their respective affiliated entities in the aggregate own approximately 18% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, who are entitled to vote their shares in their own interests, acting together, exert a significant degree of influence over our management and affairs and over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, merger, consolidation, sale of all or substantially all of our assets or other corporate transactions that other stockholders may view as beneficial, or conversely this concentrated control could result in the consummation of a transaction that other stockholders may not support. This may harm the value of our shares and discourage investors from investing in us.. In addition, several of our executive officers also serve on the board of directors of APC, who beneficially owned more than 5% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2017. This concentration of ownership may adversely affect our stock price as the interests of our executive officers, directors and holders of greater than 5% of our outstanding common stock may not always coincide with the interests of our other stockholders. Our executive officers and directors, together with holders of greater than 5% of its outstanding common stock, as a group, currently beneficially own approximately 20% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, our executive officers, directors and holders of greater than 5% of our outstanding common stock could delay or prevent proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, open market purchase programs or other purchases of shares of ApolloMed’s common stock, that might otherwise give our stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price of ApolloMed’s common stock, and could have the ability to control matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including, among other things:. ·     changes to the composition of our board of directors, which has the authority to direct our business and appoint and remove our officers;. ·     proposed mergers, consolidations or other business combinations involving us; and. ·     amendments to our charter and bylaws which govern the rights attached to our shares of capital stock.. Provisions under Delaware law and ApolloMed’s charter and bylaws could deter takeover attempts or attempts to remove its board members or management that might otherwise be beneficial to its stockholders.. ApolloMed is subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which makes the acquisition of ApolloMed and the removal of its incumbent officers and directors more difficult for potential acquirers by prohibiting stockholders holding 15% or more of its outstanding voting stock from acquiring it without the consent of its board of directors for at least three years from the date they first hold 15% or more of the voting stock. These provisions and others that could be adopted in the future could deter unsolicited takeovers or delay or prevent changes in ApolloMed’s control or management, including transactions in which ApolloMed’s stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. These provisions may also limit the ability of ApolloMed’s stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests.. Additionally, ApolloMed’s charter and bylaws provide for its board of directors to be divided into three classes serving staggered terms. The directors in each class will be elected to serve three-year terms. The provisions for a classified board could prevent a party that acquires control of a majority of the outstanding voting stock from obtaining control of our board of directors until the second annual stockholders meeting following the date the acquirer obtains the controlling stock interest. ApolloMed’s charter and bylaws contain additional provisions, such as the authorization for its board of directors to issue one or more classes of preferred stock and determine the rights, preferences and privileges of the preferred stock, which could cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire ApolloMed on terms not approved by the board, and the ownership requirement for ApolloMed’s stockholders to call special meetings, that could deter, discourage or make it more difficult for a change in control of ApolloMed or for a third party to acquire ApolloMed, even if such a change in control could be deemed in the interest of ApolloMed’s stockholders or if such an acquisition would provide ApolloMed’s stockholders with a substantial premium for their shares over the market price of ApolloMed’s common stock.. 38. As such, these provisions could discourage a potential acquirer from acquiring us or otherwise attempting to obtain our control and increase the likelihood that our incumbent directors and officers will retain their positions.. We may issue additional equity securities in the future, which may result in dilution to existing investors.. If ApolloMed issues additional equity securities, its existing stockholders may experience substantial dilution. ApolloMed may sell equity securities and may issue convertible notes and warrants in one or more transactions at prices and manners as we may determine from time to time, including at prices (or exercise prices) below the market price of ApolloMed’s common stock, for capital raising purposes, including in any debt financing, registered offering or private placement, and new investors could have superior rights such as liquidation and other preferences. To attract and retain the right talent, ApolloMed may also issue equity awards under its equity compensation plans to its officers, other employees, directors and consultants from time to time. ApolloMed may also issue additional shares of its common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for common stock in connection with future acquisitions or for other business purposes. In addition, the exercise or conversion of outstanding options or warrants to purchase shares of ApolloMed’s stock may result in dilution to its existing stockholders upon any such exercise or conversion. ApolloMed may be required to issue additional equity securities based on its contractual obligations. In 2014, ApolloMed entered into a Registration Rights Agreement (the “RRA”) with NNA of Nevada, Inc. (“NNA”), in connection with obtaining financing from NNA. The RRA has been amended from time to time. Presently, ApolloMed is required to prepare and file with the SEC a registration statement covering the sale of NNA’s registrable securities by November 30, 2018. If ApolloMed fails to do so, for each month thereafter until it files the registration statement, ApolloMed must pay NNA liquidated damages equal to 1.5% of the total purchase price of NNA’s registrable securities, payable in shares of ApolloMed’s common stock. In addition, at the closing of the Merger, 10% of the total number of shares of ApolloMed’s common stock issuable to pre-Merger NMM shareholders was held back to secure indemnification rights of ApolloMed and its affiliates. If no indemnification is sought from pre-Merger NMM shareholders within 24 months after the closing of the Merger, the holdback shares will be issued to such shareholders, which could result in significant dilution to other investors. Similarly, if one or more indemnification rights of pre-Merger NMM shareholders are triggered, additional shares of ApolloMed’s common stock (capped at the same number of shares of ApolloMed’s common stock that are subject to the holdback for the indemnification of ApolloMed and its affiliates) will be issued to pre-Merger NMM shareholders. The issuance of any such additional securities will result in the dilution of the ownership interests of ApolloMed’s other stockholders and may create downward pressure on the trading price of its common stock."
