[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.. In addition to other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors that could materially affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.  The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company.  Certain risks are identified below in Item 7 under the caption \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\"  This information is incorporated here by reference.  Additional risks not currently known to us, risks that could apply broadly to issuers, or risks that we currently deem immaterial, may also impact our business and operations.  Risks can also change over time.. Our business depends heavily on the operating levels of our customers and the factors that affect them, including general economic conditions.  The markets for the products and services we sell are subject to conditions or events that affect demand for goods and materials that our customers produce.  Consequently, demand for our products and services has been and will continue to be influenced by most of the same factors that affect demand for and production of customers' goods and materials.. When customers or prospective customers reduce production levels because of lower demand, increased supply, higher costs, tight credit conditions, unfavorable currency exchange rates, adverse trade policies, foreign competition, other competitive disadvantage, offshoring of production, or other reasons, their need for our products and services diminishes.  Selling prices and terms of sale come under pressure, adversely affecting the profitability and the durability of customer relationships, and credit losses may increase.  Inventory management becomes more difficult in times of economic uncertainty.  Volatile economic and credit conditions also make it more difficult for us, as well as our customers and suppliers, to forecast and plan future business activities.. Our business could be adversely affected if we do not successfully execute our initiatives to grow sales and earnings.  We have underway numerous initiatives to grow sales, enhance gross margins, manage costs, and otherwise improve our earnings and competitive position. If we do not implement these initiatives effectively, or if for other reasons they are unsuccessful, our business could be adversely affected.. Consolidation in our customers' and suppliers' industries could adversely affect our business and financial results.  Consolidation continues among our product suppliers and customers.  As customer industries consolidate, a. 5. Table of Contents. greater proportion of our sales could be derived from large volume contracts, which could adversely impact margins.  Consolidation among customers can trigger changes in their purchasing strategies, potentially shifting blocks of business among competing distributors and contributing to volatility in our sales and pressure on prices.  Similarly, continued consolidation among our suppliers could reduce our ability to negotiate favorable pricing and other commercial terms for our inventory purchases.  There can be no assurance we will be able to take advantage of consolidation trends.. Loss of key supplier authorizations, lack of product availability, or changes in distribution programs could adversely affect our sales and earnings.  Our business depends on maintaining an immediately available supply of various products to meet customer demand.  Many of our relationships with key product suppliers are longstanding, but are terminable by either party.  The loss of key supplier authorizations, or a substantial decrease in the availability of their products, could put us at a competitive disadvantage and have a material adverse effect on our business.  Supply interruptions could arise from raw materials shortages, inadequate manufacturing capacity or utilization to meet demand, financial problems, trade issues, labor disputes, or weather conditions affecting suppliers' production, transportation disruptions, or other reasons beyond our control.. In addition, as a distributor, we face the risk of key product suppliers changing their relationships with distributors generally, or us in particular, in a manner that adversely impacts us.  For example, key suppliers could change the following: the prices we must pay for their products relative to other distributors or relative to competing brands; the geographic or product line breadth of distributor authorizations; supplier purchasing incentive or other support programs; or product purchase or stocking expectations.. An increase in competition could decrease sales or earnings.  We operate in a highly competitive industry.  The industry remains fragmented, but is consolidating.  Our principal competitors are specialist and general line distributors of bearings, power transmission products, fluid power components and systems, flow control solutions, industrial rubber products, linear motion components, tools, safety products, oilfield supplies, and other industrial and maintenance supplies.  These competitors include local, regional, national, and multinational operations, and can include catalog and e-commerce companies.  Competition is largely focused in the local service area and is generally based on product line breadth, product availability, service capabilities, and price.  Existing competitors have, and future competitors may have, greater financial or other resources than we do, broader product or service offerings, greater market presence, stronger relationships with key suppliers or customers, or better name recognition.  If existing or future competitors seek to gain or to retain market share by aggressive pricing strategies and sales methods, or otherwise through competitive advantage, our sales and profitability could be adversely affected.  Our success will also be affected by our ability to continue to provide competitive offerings as customer preferences or demands evolve, for example with respect to our product and services portfolio or our e-commerce and inventory management solutions.. The purchasing incentives we earn from product suppliers can be impacted if we reduce our purchases in response to declining customer demand.  Certain of our product suppliers have historically offered to their distributors, including us, incentives for purchasing their products.  In addition to market or customer account-specific incentives, certain suppliers pay incentives to the distributor for attaining specific purchase volumes during a program period.  In some cases, to earn incentives, we must achieve year-over-year growth in purchases with the supplier.  When demand for our products declines, we may be less inclined to add inventory to take advantage of certain incentive programs, thereby potentially adversely impacting our profitability.. Trade policies can have an adverse impact on industries we sell into, potentially negatively affecting our net sales and profits.  Changes to trade policies can disrupt geographic and industry demand trends.  While Applied primarily serves markets in the United States, a significant portion of our domestic customer base exports or serves exporters.  U.S. government-imposed tariffs or taxes that penalize imports can be met with countermeasures by foreign governments, and it becomes difficult to predict what the net effect of such actions will be on Applied's net sales and profits.  It is possible that such changes could adversely affect our financial results.. Volatility in product, energy, and other costs can affect our profitability.  Product manufacturers may adjust the prices of products we distribute for many reasons, including changes in their costs for raw materials, components, energy, labor, and tariffs and taxes on imports.  In addition, a portion of our own distribution costs is comprised of fuel for our sales and delivery vehicles, freight, and utility expenses for our facilities.  Our ability to pass along increases in our product and distribution costs in a timely manner to our customers depends on execution, market conditions, and contractual limitations.  Failing to pass along price increases timely in an inflationary environment, or not maintaining sales volume while increasing prices, could significantly reduce our profitability.. While increases in the cost of products or energy could be damaging to us, decreases in those costs, particularly if severe, could also adversely impact us by creating deflation in selling prices, which could cause our gross profit. 6. Table of Contents. margin to deteriorate.  Changes in energy or raw materials costs can also adversely affect customers; for example, declines in oil, gas, and coal prices may negatively impact customers operating in those industries and, consequently, our sales to those customers.. Changes in customer or product mix and downward pressure on sales prices could cause our gross profit percentage to fluctuate or decline.  Because we serve thousands of customers in many end markets, and offer millions of products, with varying profitability levels, changes in our customer or product mix could cause our gross profit percentage to fluctuate or decline.  Downward pressure on sales prices could also cause our gross profit percentage to fluctuate or decline.  We can experience downward pressure on sales prices as a result of deflation, pressure from customers to reduce costs, or increased competition.. Our ability to transact business is highly reliant on information systems.  A disruption or security breach could materially affect our business, financial condition, or results of operation.  We depend on information systems to process customer orders, manage inventory and accounts receivable collections, purchase products, manage accounts payable processes, ship products to customers on a timely basis, maintain cost-effective operations, provide superior service to customers, and compile financial results.  A serious, prolonged disruption of our information systems, due to manmade or natural causes, including power or telecommunications outage, or breach in security, could materially impair fundamental business processes and increase expenses, decrease sales, or otherwise reduce earnings.. Because of our reliance on information systems, we may be vulnerable to the growing threat of damage or intrusion from computer viruses or other cyber-attacks on our systems.  Despite precautions taken to prevent or mitigate the risks of such incidents, an attack on our systems could not only cause business disruption, but could also result in the theft or disclosure of proprietary or confidential information, or a breach of customers, supplier, or employee information.  Such an incident could negatively impact our sales, damage our reputation, and cause us to incur unanticipated legal liability and costs.. In recent years, we replaced multiple legacy information system applications with newer software platforms, to enhance our business information and transaction systems to support future growth.  We continue with and consider additional enterprise resource planning system conversions, on a smaller scale, in discrete business operations.  Despite extensive planning, we could experience disruptions related to the implementation because of the projects' complexity.  The potential adverse consequences could include delays, loss of information, diminished management reporting capabilities, damage to our ability to process transactions timely, harm to our control environment, diminished employee productivity, and unanticipated increases in costs.  Further, our ability to achieve anticipated operational benefits from new platforms is not assured.. Acquisitions are a key component of our anticipated growth.  We may not be able to identify or to complete future acquisitions, to integrate them effectively into our operations, or to realize their anticipated benefits.  Many industries we serve are mature.  As a result, acquisitions of businesses have been important to our growth.  While we wish to continue to acquire businesses, we may not be able to identify and to negotiate suitable acquisitions, to obtain financing for them on satisfactory terms, or otherwise to complete acquisitions.  In addition, existing and future competitors, and private equity firms, increasingly compete with us for acquisitions, which can increase prices and reduce the number of suitable opportunities; the acquisitions they make can also adversely impact our market position.. We seek acquisition opportunities that complement and expand our operations.  However, substantial costs, delays, or other difficulties related to integrating acquisitions could adversely affect our business or financial results.  For example, we could face significant challenges in consolidating functions, integrating information systems, personnel, and operations, and implementing procedures and controls in a timely and efficient manner.. Further, even if we successfully integrate the acquisitions with our operations, we may not be able to realize cost savings, sales, profit levels, or other benefits that we anticipate from these acquisitions, either as to amount or in the time frame we expect.  Our ability to realize anticipated benefits may be affected by a number of factors, including the following: our ability to achieve planned operating results, to reduce duplicative expenses and inventory effectively, and to consolidate facilities; economic and market factors; the incurrence of significant integration costs or charges in order to achieve those benefits; our ability to retain key product supplier authorizations, customer relationships, and employees; our ability to address competitive, distribution, and regulatory challenges arising from entering into new markets, especially those in which we may have limited or no direct experience; and exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the acquired company.  In addition, acquisitions could place significant demand on administrative, operational, and financial resources.. 7. Table of Contents. We may not realize the growth opportunities and cost synergies that are anticipated from our recent acquisition of FCX Performance, Inc.  On January 31, 2018, we acquired FCX Performance, Inc. (\"FCX\"), a distributor of specialty process flow control products and services, for an aggregate purchase price of $781.8 million.  The benefits that are expected to result from this sizable acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities and cost synergies as a result of the acquisition.  Our success in realizing these growth opportunities and cost synergies, and the timing of this realization, depends on a number of factors.  There is a significant degree of difficulty and management distraction inherent in the process of integrating an acquisition as large as FCX.  While integration activities are well underway, the process of integrating operations could still cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, our activities or the activities of the FCX business.  Members of our senior management may be required to devote considerable time to the integration process, which decreases the time they will have to manage our other operations, service existing customers, and attract new business.  If senior management is not able to manage the integration process effectively, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer.  There can be no assurance that we will successfully or cost-effectively integrate FCX.  The failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Even if we are able to integrate FCX successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the growth opportunities and cost synergies we currently expect from the acquisition, and we cannot guarantee these benefits will be achieved within anticipated time frames or at all.  For example, we may not be able to eliminate duplicative costs.  Moreover, we may incur substantial expenses in connection with the integration of FCX.  While it is anticipated that certain expenses will be incurred to achieve cost synergies, such expenses are difficult to estimate accurately and may exceed current estimates.  Accordingly, the benefits from the acquisition may be offset by costs incurred to integrate the business or delays in the integration process.  In addition, the overall integration may result in unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customers and other relationships, and loss of key employees, any of which may adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations and may cause our stock price to decline.. We incurred a substantial amount of debt to complete the acquisition of FCX. To service our debt, we will require a significant amount of cash that may limit our ability to pay dividends, repurchase our shares, or complete other acquisitions or strategic initiatives.  In connection with the FCX acquisition, we entered into a new credit facility pursuant to which we incurred approximately $780.0 million in term loan indebtedness and approximately $250.0 million in revolving indebtedness.  This indebtedness substantially increased our leverage and requires substantial future principal and interest payments.  Our ability to service our debt and fund our other liquidity needs will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future.  This additional leverage may (i) require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the payment of debt service, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund planned capital expenditures, pay dividends, repurchase our shares, complete other acquisitions or strategic initiatives, and other general corporate purposes; (ii) limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future (either at all or on satisfactory terms) to enable us to react to changes in our business or execute our growth strategies; and (iii) place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to businesses in our industry that have lower levels of indebtedness.  Additionally, any failure to comply with covenants in the instruments governing our debt could result in an event of default.  Any of the foregoing events or circumstances relating to our additional indebtedness may adversely affect our business, financial position, or results of operations and may cause our stock price to decline.. Goodwill and other intangible assets recorded as a result of our acquisitions could become impaired.  We review long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and identifiable amortizing intangible assets, for impairment whenever changes in circumstances or events may indicate that the carrying amounts are not recoverable.  If the fair value is less than the carrying amount of the asset, a loss is recognized for the difference.  Factors which may cause an impairment of long-lived assets include significant changes in the manner of use of these assets, negative industry or market trends, significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, or a likely sale or disposal of the asset before the end of its estimated useful life.  In 2016 we recorded a $64.8 million non-cash impairment charge for goodwill associated with the service center based distribution reporting units in Canada, Australia, and New Zealand.. As of June 30, 2018, we had $646.6 million of goodwill and $435.9 million of other intangible assets, net.  We assess all existing goodwill at least annually for impairment on a reporting unit basis.  The techniques used in our qualitative assessment and goodwill impairment tests incorporate a number of estimates and assumptions that are subject to change.  Although we believe these estimates and assumptions are reasonable and reflect market conditions forecasted at the assessment date, any changes to these assumptions and estimates due to market conditions or otherwise may lead to an outcome where impairment charges would be required in future periods.. 8. Table of Contents. Tight credit markets could impact our ability to obtain financing on reasonable terms or increase the cost of future financing.  Although the credit market turmoil of a decade ago did not have a significant adverse impact on our liquidity or borrowing costs, the availability of funds tightened and credit spreads on corporate debt increased.  If credit market volatility were to return, obtaining additional or replacement financing could be more difficult and the cost of issuing new debt or replacing a credit facility could be higher than under our current facilities.  Tight credit conditions could limit our ability to finance acquisitions on terms acceptable to us.. For more information relating to borrowing and interest rates, see the following sections below: \"Liquidity and Capital Resources\" in Item 7 under the caption \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations;\" Item 7A under the caption \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk;\" and note 5 to the consolidated financial statements, included below in Item 8 under the caption \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.\"  That information is incorporated here by reference.. Our ability to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting may be insufficient to allow us to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and this could cause our financial statements to become materially misleading and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.  We require effective internal control over financial reporting in order to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud.  Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud.  Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements.  If we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial statements and effectively prevent fraud, our financial statements could be materially misstated, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.. If we are not able to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business, financial condition and operating results could be harmed.  Any material weakness could affect investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements.  As a result, our ability to obtain any additional financing, or additional financing on favorable terms, could be materially and adversely affected.  This, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and the market value of our stock and require us to incur additional costs to improve our internal control systems and procedures.  In addition, perceptions of the Company among customers, suppliers, lenders, investors, securities analysts, and others could also be adversely affected.. We cannot assure that any material weaknesses will not arise in the future due to our failure to implement and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting.  In addition, although we have been successful historically in strengthening our controls and procedures, those controls and procedures may not be adequate to prevent or identify irregularities or ensure the fair presentation of our financial statements included in our periodic reports filed with the SEC.. Our business depends on our ability to attract, develop, motivate, and retain qualified employees.  Our success depends on hiring, developing, motivating, and retaining key employees, including executive, managerial, sales, professional, and other personnel.  We may have difficulty identifying and hiring qualified personnel.  In addition, we may have difficulty retaining such personnel once hired, and key people may leave and compete against us.  With respect to sales and customer service positions in particular, we greatly benefit from having employees who are familiar with the products we sell and their applications, as well as with our customer and supplier relationships.  The loss of key employees or our failure to attract and retain other qualified workers could disrupt or adversely affect our business.  In addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by increased competition for employees, shortages of qualified workers, higher employee turnover (including through retirement as the workforce ages), or increased employee compensation or benefit costs.. An interruption of operations at our headquarters or distribution centers, or in our means of transporting product, could adversely impact our business.  Our business depends on maintaining operating activity at our headquarters and distribution centers, and being able to receive and deliver product in a timely manner.  A serious, prolonged interruption due to power or telecommunications outage, terrorist attack, earthquake, extreme weather events, other natural disasters, fire, flood, or other interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. There is no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends on our common stock, and our indebtedness could limit our ability to pay dividends.  The timing, declaration, amount, and payment of dividends to our shareholders fall within the discretion of our Board of Directors and depend on many factors, including our financial. 9. Table of Contents. condition and results of operations, as well as applicable law and business considerations that our Board of Directors considers relevant.  There can be no assurance that we will continue to pay a quarterly dividend.. Additionally, if we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet our debt payment obligations, then our ability to pay dividends, if so determined by the Board of Directors, will be impaired and we may be required to attempt to restructure or refinance our debt, raise additional capital, or take other actions such as selling assets, reducing, or delaying capital expenditures, or reducing our dividend.  There can be no assurance, however, that any such actions could be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all, or would be permitted by the terms of our debt or our other credit and contractual arrangements.. Our operations outside the United States increase our exposure to global economic and political conditions and currency exchange volatility.  Foreign operations contributed 14.9% of our sales in 2018.  This presence outside the U.S. increases risks associated with exposure to more volatile economic conditions, political instability, cultural and legal differences in conducting business (including corrupt practices), economic and trade policy actions, and currency exchange fluctuations.. Our foreign operations' results are reported in the local currency and then translated into U.S. dollars at applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements.  Fluctuations in currency exchange rates affect our operating results and financial position, as well as the comparability of results between financial periods.. We are subject to litigation and regulatory risk due to the nature of our business, which may have a material adverse effect on our business.  From time to time, we are involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings that arise from our business.  These may, for example, relate to product liability claims, commercial disputes, personal injuries, or employment-related matters.  In addition, we could face claims over other matters, such as claims arising from our status as a public company or government contractor, or otherwise relating to our compliance with a wide array of laws and regulations to which we are subject.  The defense and ultimate outcome of lawsuits or other legal proceedings or inquiries may result in higher operating expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Our business is subject to risks, some for which we maintain third-party insurance and some for which we self-insure.  We may incur losses and be subject to liability claims that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.  We maintain insurance policies that provide limited coverage for some, but not all, of the potential risks and liabilities associated with our business.  The policies are subject to deductibles and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insured basis.  For some risks, we may not obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented.  Because of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially, and in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage.  As a result, we may not be able to renew existing insurance policies or procure other desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.  Even where insurance coverage applies, insurers may contest their obligations to make payments.  Our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected by losses and liabilities from uninsured or underinsured events, as well as by delays in the payment of insurance proceeds, or the failure by insurers to make payments.. In addition to the risks identified above, other risks to our future performance include, but are not limited to, the following:. • changes in customer preferences for products and services of the nature, brands, quality, or cost sold by us;. • changes in customer procurement policies and practices;. • changes in the market prices for products and services relative to the costs of providing them;. • changes in operating expenses;. • organizational changes within the Company;. • government regulation, legislation, or policies, including with respect to federal tax policy and international trade, such as recent tariffs and proposed tariffs on imports, and countermeasures by foreign governments;. • the variability and timing of new business opportunities including acquisitions, customer relationships, and supplier authorizations;. • the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities in connection with acquisitions;. • volatility of our stock price and the resulting impact on our consolidated financial statements; and changes in accounting policies and practices that could impact our financial reporting and increase compliance costs.. 10. Table of Contents"
