[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. We have a history of losses and we expect our revenue growth rate to decline. As our costs increase, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to achieve or maintain profitability in the future.. We incurred net losses of $25.6 million, $31.6 million and $41.0 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We had an accumulated deficit of $225.9 million at December 31, 2017. We expect that our revenue growth rate will decline over time. We may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to achieve or sustain profitability. We expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future and we expect our costs to increase in future periods as we expend substantial financial and other resources on, among other things:. •  sales and marketing, including a continued expansion of our direct sales organization, which will require time before these investments generate sales results;. •  hiring of additional employees for our research and development team to support growth, our technology and datacenter infrastructure, enhancements to our cloud architecture, improved disaster recovery protection, increasing security, compliance and operations expenses, and expenses related to required certifications and third-party attestations;. •  other software development, including enhancements and modifications related to our business applications, including investments in our software development team;. •  international expansion in an effort to increase our customer base and sales;. •  continued growth of the customer success team; and. •  general and administration, including significantly increasing expenses in accounting and legal related to the increase in the sophistication and resources required for public company compliance and other work arising from the growth and maturity of the company.. These expenditures may not result in additional revenue or the growth of our business. If we fail to continue to grow revenue or to achieve or sustain profitability, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline.. We have a limited operating history, which makes it difficult to evaluate our prospects and future operating results.. We were incorporated in 2007 and introduced our first solution in 2008. Our limited operating history makes our ability to forecast future operating results difficult and subjects us to a number of uncertainties, including our ability to plan and model future growth. Our revenue grew 17%, 24% and 21% in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, compared to the prior year; however, our historical revenue growth is not necessarily indicative of our future performance. Our revenue growth is expected to decline in future periods due to a number of reasons, which may include the maturation of our business, increase in overall revenue over time, a decrease in the professional services needed to deploy our applications, slowing demand for our applications, increasing competition, a decrease in the growth of the markets in which we compete, or if we fail, for any reason, to continue to capitalize on growth opportunities, a decrease in our renewal rates, or a decline in available opportunities as a result of our increased market penetration in one or more of our markets.. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries, such as determining appropriate investments of our limited resources, market adoption of our current and future applications, competition from other companies, acquiring and retaining customers, hiring, integrating, training and retaining skilled personnel, developing new applications, determining prices and contract terms for our applications, and unforeseen expenses and challenges in forecasting accuracy. If our assumptions regarding these risks and uncertainties, which we use to plan our business, are incorrect or change, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our prospects, operating results and business could be harmed.. 14. If the TBM market fails to develop, or we are unable to maintain our leadership within that market category, our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects could be harmed.. Our business model depends upon the development and adoption of the market for TBM solutions and our leadership within that market category. We derive and expect to continue to derive for some period of time the majority of revenue and cash flows from our core TBM solutions. The TBM market is relatively new and is evolving rapidly, and overall market acceptance of the importance of TBM and our solutions is critical to our continued success. If the market for TBM solutions does not continue to grow, or grows more slowly than we expect, or if the market for TBM solutions does not develop as we anticipate, our operating results would be harmed. In addition, successful market adoption will depend in part on our ability to correctly anticipate, identify and build the key features, functions, reports, metric selection, and packaging that is most useful and attractive to the market, all while maintaining sufficient flexibility with the platform as needed to accommodate customer-specific needs.. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, substantially all of our revenue and operating cash flows from TBM solutions and related professional services. If we fail to adapt our solutions to changing market dynamics and customer preferences or to achieve increased market acceptance of our TBM solutions, our business, results of operations, financial condition, and growth prospects would be harmed.. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, substantially all of our revenue and cash flows from TBM solutions and related professional services. As such, the market acceptance of TBM solutions is critical to our success. Demand for our TBM solutions is affected by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, such as continued market acceptance of our solutions by customers for existing and new use cases, the timing of development and release of new applications, features, and functionality introduced by our competitors, technological change, and growth or contraction in our addressable market. Although we may expand our efforts in the marketplace beyond the TBM category, there can be no certainty that any such expansion will generate returns capable of offsetting the costs associated with any such expansion. You should consider our business and prospects based on our current solutions within the TBM category and, in light of the various challenges we and TBM as a category face, including those discussed in this \"Risk Factors\" section.. Our business model heavily depends on the acquisition of new customers, adoption by current customers of our solutions, renewals of their subscriptions and the purchase of additional subscriptions from us.. In order to maintain or improve our operating results, we depend on the acquisition of new customers, the adoption of additional applications by existing customers and the decision by existing and new customers to renew their subscriptions upon the expiration of their current contract term. Our contracts typically vary in length between one and three years and our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions after the expiration of their initial subscription periods. Our customers may elect not to renew, may seek to renew for lower subscription amounts or for shorter contract lengths, and may choose to renew for the same or fewer applications over time. Our renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including leadership changes within our customers resulting in loss of sponsorship, limited customer resources, pricing changes by us or our competitors, adoption and utilization of our solutions by our customers, customer satisfaction with our applications, the acquisition of our customers by other companies, procurement or budgetary decisions from legislative or other regulatory bodies, and deteriorating general economic conditions. To the extent our customer base continues to grow, renewals and the subscriptions to additional applications by renewing customers will become an increasingly important part of our results. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions for our applications, or decrease the amount they spend with us, revenue will decline and our business will be harmed.. Because our recent growth has resulted in the rapid expansion of our business, we do not have a long history upon which to base forecasts of customer renewal rates, customer upgrade rates or future revenue. As a result, our future operating results may be significantly below the expectations of investors, which could harm the market price of our Class A common stock.. 15. If we fail to effectively develop and expand our sales and marketing capabilities, our ability to increase our customer base and increase acceptance of our TBM solutions could be harmed.. To increase the number of customers and increase the market acceptance of our solutions, we will need to expand our sales and marketing operations, including our domestic and international sales force. We will continue to dedicate significant resources to sales and marketing programs. We believe that there is significant competition for direct sales personnel with the sales skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth in the future will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining a sufficient number of direct sales personnel. New hires require significant training and time before they achieve full productivity, particularly in new sales territories. Our recent hires and planned hires may not become as productive as quickly as we would like, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the future in the markets where we do business. The effectiveness of our sales and marketing has also varied over time and, together with the effectiveness of any partners or resellers we may engage, may vary in the future. Our business will be harmed if our efforts do not generate a correspondingly significant increase in revenue. We may not achieve anticipated revenue growth from expanding our sales force if we are unable to hire, develop and retain talented sales personnel, if our new sales personnel are unable to achieve desired productivity levels in a reasonable period of time, or if our sales and marketing programs are not effective.. We may experience quarterly fluctuations in our operating results due to a number of factors, which makes our future results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations.. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and we expect them to fluctuate in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, our past results may not be indicative of our future performance, and comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. In addition to the other risks described in this report, factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include:. •  changes in spending on TBM solutions by our current or prospective customers;. •  pricing our applications effectively so that we are able to attract and retain customers without compromising our operating results;. •  attracting new customers and increasing existing customers' use of our solutions;. •  unexpected sales and transaction execution delays;. •  customer renewal rates and the amounts for which agreements are renewed;. •  awareness of our brand;. •  changes in the competitive dynamics of our market, including consolidation among competitors or customers and the introduction of new applications or capabilities;. •  changes to the commission plans, quotas and other compensation-related metrics for our sales representatives;. •  the amount and timing of payment for operating expenses, particularly research and development, sales and marketing expenses and employee benefit expenses;. •  our ability to manage our existing business and future growth, including increases in the number of customers for our solutions and the introduction and adoption of our solutions in the United States and globally;. •  unforeseen costs and expenses related to the expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure, including disruptions in our hosting network infrastructure and privacy and data security;. •  the level of international sales and the pricing of sales;. •  foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; and. •  general economic and political conditions in our domestic and international markets.. 16. We may not be able to accurately forecast the amount and mix of future subscriptions, size or duration of contracts, revenue and expenses and, as a result, our operating results may fall below our estimates or the expectations of public market analysts and investors. If our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors, or below any estimates we may provide, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline.. We target sales efforts at enterprise customers and the length, cost and uncertainty associated with sales cycles may result in fluctuations in our operating results and our failure to achieve the expectations of investors.. We target sales efforts at enterprises and face long sales cycles, complex customer requirements, substantial upfront sales costs, and a relatively low and difficult to predict volume of sales on a quarter-by-quarter basis. This makes it difficult to predict with certainty our sales and related operating performance in any given period. Our typical sales cycle is approximately six months, but is variable and difficult to predict and can be longer. Customers often undertake a prolonged evaluation of our solutions, including assessing their own readiness, scoping the professional services involved, and comparing our solutions to products offered by our competitors and their ability to solve the problem internally. Moreover, our customers often begin to deploy our solutions on a limited basis, but nevertheless demand extensive configuration, integration services and pricing concessions, which increase our upfront investment in the sales effort with no guarantee that these customers will deploy our solutions widely enough across their organization to justify our substantial upfront investment. Adherence to our financial plan in part depends on a predictable growth rate in the acquisition of new customers that represent high annual contract value, while additional growth and enhanced predictability in part depends on an increased volume of new customers with a relatively lower annual contract value. Our financial performance and the predictability of our quarterly financial results may be harmed by intermittent failures to secure the higher value enterprise agreements, or increase the volume of transactions overall, according to our forecasts, and depends in large part on the successful execution of our direct sales team. In addition, because of the relatively small and tightly knit nature of the community of IT leaders within the enterprises that we sell into, our business is vulnerable to negative feedback or opinions even if held by a few influential leaders within this community.. Additionally, our quarterly sales cycles are generally more heavily weighted toward the end of the quarter with an increased volume of sales in the last few weeks of the quarter. This could negatively impact the timing of recognized revenue and billings, cash collections and delivery of professional services in subsequent periods. Furthermore, the concentration of contract negotiations in the last few weeks of the quarter could require us to expend more in the form of compensation for additional sales, legal and finance employees and contractors. Compression of sales activity to the end of the quarter also greatly increases the likelihood that sales cycles will extend beyond the quarter in which they are forecasted to close for some sizeable transactions, which will harm forecasting accuracy and adversely impact billings and new customer acquisition metrics for the quarter in which they are forecasted to close.. Because we recognize revenue from subscriptions ratably over the term of the agreement, near-term changes in sales may not be reflected immediately in our operating results.. We offer our applications primarily through multi-year subscription agreements, which typically vary in length between one and three years. All subscription fees that are billed in advance of service are recorded in deferred revenue. Subscription revenue is recognized ratably over the subscription term. As a result, most of the revenue that we report in each period is derived from the recognition of deferred revenue relating to subscriptions entered into during previous periods. A decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any one quarter is not likely to have a material impact on results for that quarter. However, declines would negatively affect revenue and deferred revenue balances in future periods, and the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our applications, and potential changes in our rate of renewals, may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our total revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers is recognized over the applicable subscription term.. 17. Because we expense commissions associated with subscriptions to our applications immediately upon the execution of a subscription agreement with a customer, our operating income in any period may not be indicative of our financial health and future performance.. We expense commissions paid to sales personnel in the period in which we enter into an agreement for the subscription to our applications. In contrast, we recognize the revenue associated with a subscription to our applications ratably over the related subscription period. Although we believe higher sales is a positive indicator of the long-term health of our business, higher sales increases our operating expenses and could decrease earnings in any particular period. Thus, we may report poor operating results due to higher sales commissions in a period in which we experience strong sales of our applications. Alternatively, we may report better operating results due to the reduction of sales commissions in a period in which we experience a slowdown in sales. Therefore, you should not necessarily rely on our operating income during any one quarter as an indication of our financial health and potential future performance.. If we fail to attract and retain additional qualified personnel we may be unable to execute our business strategy.. To execute our business strategy, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. In particular, we compete with many other companies for software developers with high levels of experience in designing, developing and managing cloud-based software, as well as for skilled product development, marketing, sales and operations professionals, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining the professionals we need, in particular in the Seattle, Washington area where we are headquartered. We have experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications which may, among other things, impede our ability to execute our software development and sales strategies. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel are more well-known and have greater resources than we do. In addition, in making employment decisions, particularly in the software industry, job candidates often consider the value of the stock options or other equity incentives they are to receive in connection with their employment. If the price of our stock declines, or experiences significant volatility, our ability to attract or retain qualified employees will be adversely affected. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our growth prospects could be harmed.. The market in which we participate is increasingly competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our operating results could be harmed.. The market for TBM solutions is relatively new and rapidly evolving. In many cases, our primary competition is the use of legacy spreadsheet-based business processes, or occasionally we encounter either custom software developed, or general purpose business intelligence solutions repurposed, by in-house IT and finance departments of our potential customers to meet specific business needs. As we look to sell our solutions to potential customers with existing internal solutions, we must convince internal stakeholders that our TBM solutions are superior to the legacy solutions that the organization has previously adopted. If we are unable to effectively convince internal stakeholders at our prospective customers to abandon their legacy solutions, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. Larger companies, such as ServiceNow, provide a suite of products and services that includes TBM capabilities. These competitors have greater name recognition, much longer operating histories, more and better-established customer relationships, larger sales forces, larger marketing and software development budgets and significantly greater resources than we do. These large vendors commonly have an enterprise-wide license agreement in place with the Fortune 2000 enterprise company customer base and are able to leverage that license to easily transact for their services. In some cases, these large vendors may be willing to provide their competing software for free as part of enterprise-wide agreements that include other products or services, which has resulted in pricing pressures and lost sales. Further, such large vendors frequently benefit from existing system integrator and other go-to-market relationships that facilitate their sales and marketing efforts, and that can be easily redirected to competition with us in the TBM market. In addition, certain of our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, or customer requirements, or simply accelerate product development and improvements at greater velocity.. 18. Several specialized companies target the TBM market through solutions that are tailored to a specific TBM use case or industry. Some of our principal competitors in these situations offer their products or services at a lower price, which has resulted in pricing pressures and lost sales. Potential customers with discrete and immediate needs that may be addressed by these niche solutions may choose to deploy these solutions instead of an offering from our integrated suite of TBM solutions. If we fail to compete effectively against these more specific, niche providers of TBM solutions, our business will be harmed.. We expect competition to intensify in the future. We expect that the large software vendors who currently do not have an offering in the TBM category, some of which operate in adjacent product categories today, may in the future bring such a solution to market through product development, acquisitions or other means. Such vendors would potentially benefit from the same advantages described above regarding our existing larger competitors, but perhaps on an even greater scale. Also, a simpler solution could gain traction in the market and acceptance by medium sized businesses, which may result in downward pressure on our pricing and potentially a decrease in market share and market opportunity for us.. If we fail to adapt and respond effectively to rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and changing customer needs or requirements, our solutions may become less competitive.. Our success depends on our ability to adapt and enhance our solutions. To attract new customers and increase revenue from existing customers, we need to continue to enhance and improve our solutions, capabilities and enhancements to meet customer needs at prices that our customers are willing to pay. Such efforts will require adding new functionality and responding to technological advancements, which will increase our research and development costs. If we are unable to develop solutions that address customers' needs, or enhance and improve our offerings in a timely manner, we may not be able to maintain or increase market acceptance of our solutions. Further, many of our existing and potential future competitors expend a considerably greater amount of funds on their research and development programs, and those that do not may be acquired by larger companies that would allocate greater resources to competitors' research and development programs. If we fail to maintain adequate research and development resources or compete effectively with the research and development programs of our competitors our business could be harmed. Our ability to grow is also subject to the risk of future disruptive technologies. If new technologies emerge that are able to deliver TBM solutions at lower prices, more efficiently, more conveniently or more securely, such technologies could adversely affect our ability to compete.. We may not receive significant revenue from our current development efforts for several years, if at all.. Developing software applications is expensive and the investment in product development often involves a long return on investment cycle. We have made and expect to continue to make significant investments in development and related product opportunities. Accelerated product introductions and short product life cycles require high levels of expenditures that could adversely affect our operating results if not offset by revenue increases. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our development efforts to maintain our competitive position. However, we may not receive significant revenue from these investments for several years, if at all.. 19. Our planned further expansion of our business outside the United States exposes us to risks associated with international operations.. Our growth strategy involves the further expansion of our operations and customers located outside of the United States. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, 28%, 25% and 22%, respectively of our revenue was derived from customers located outside North America, primarily from customers in Europe. A key element of our growth strategy is to expand our international operations and develop a worldwide customer base. While we have initiated efforts to expand our business into Asia-Pacific through a presence in Australia and Singapore, our investment may never be recouped. Our current international operations and future initiatives will involve a variety of risks, including:. •  the need to make significant investments in people, solutions and infrastructure, typically well in advance of revenue generation;. •  the need to localize and adapt our application for specific countries, including translation into foreign languages and associated expenses;. •  potential changes in public or customer sentiment regarding cloud-based services or the ability of non-local enterprises to provide adequate data protection, particularly in the European Union;. •  technical or latency issues in delivering our applications;. •  dependence on certain third parties, including resellers with whom we do not have extensive experience;. •  the lack of reference customers and other marketing assets in regional markets that are new or developing for us, as well as other adaptations in our market generation efforts that we may be slow to identify and implement;. •  unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, taxes or trade laws;. •  differing labor regulations, especially in the European Union, where labor laws are generally more advantageous to employees as compared to the United States, including deemed hourly wage and overtime regulations in these locations;. •  challenges inherent in efficiently managing an increased number of employees over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs;. •  difficulties in maintaining our company culture with a dispersed and distant workforce;. •  difficulties in managing a business in new markets with diverse cultures, languages, customs, legal systems, alternative dispute systems and regulatory systems;. •  currency exchange rate fluctuations and the resulting effect on our revenue and expenses, and the cost and risk of entering into hedging transactions if we choose to do so in the future;. •  limitations on our ability to reinvest earnings from operations in one country to fund the capital needs of our operations in other countries;. •  limited or insufficient intellectual property protection;. •  political instability or terrorist activities;. •  requirements to comply with foreign privacy and information security laws and regulations and the risks and costs of non-compliance;. •  likelihood of potential or actual violations of domestic and international anticorruption laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, or of U.S. and international export control and sanctions regulations, which likelihood may increase with an increase of sales or operations in foreign jurisdictions and operations in certain industries;. •  requirements to comply with U.S. export control and economic sanctions laws and regulations and other restrictions on international trade;. 20. •  likelihood that the United States and other governments and their agencies impose sanctions and embargoes on certain countries, their governments and designated parties, which may prohibit the export of certain technology, products, and services to such persons; and. •  adverse tax burdens and foreign exchange controls that could make it difficult to repatriate earnings and cash should we desire to do so.. Our limited experience in operating our business internationally increases the risk that any potential future expansion efforts that we may undertake will not be successful. If we invest substantial time and resources to expand our international operations and are unable to do so successfully and in a timely manner, our business and operating results will be harmed.. Increased sales to customers outside the United States and/or paid for in currency other than the U.S. dollar exposes us to potential currency exchange losses.. As our international sales and operations increase, so too will the number and significance of transactions, including intercompany transactions, occurring in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In addition, our international subsidiaries may accumulate assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, which is the functional reporting currency of these entities. Accordingly, changes in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar can affect our revenue and operating results due to transactional and translational remeasurement that is reflected in our earnings. We do not currently maintain a program to hedge transactional exposures in foreign currencies. However, in the future, we may use derivative instruments, such as foreign currency forward and option contracts, to hedge certain exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The use of such hedging activities may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place. Moreover, the use of hedging instruments may introduce additional risks if we are unable to structure effective hedges with such instruments. Additionally, our license fees are largely based on our customers' anticipated spend managed by our solutions expressed in U.S. dollars, which fee construct may increase the exposure of our revenue to currency fluctuations.. If we fail to manage our rapid growth effectively, or our business does not grow as we expect, our operating results may suffer.. Our employee base and operations have grown in a relatively short period of time. Our full-time employee base grew from 731 employees as of December 31, 2016 to 753 employees as of December 31, 2017. Our growth has placed, and will continue to place, a strain on our operational, financial and management infrastructure. We anticipate further increases in headcount will be required to support increases in our application offerings and continued expansion. To manage this growth effectively, we must continue to improve operational, financial and management systems and controls by, among other things:. •  effectively attracting, training and integrating a large number of new employees, particularly technical personnel and members of our management and sales teams;. •  further improving key business systems, processes and IT infrastructure to support our business needs;. •  enhancing information and communication systems to ensure that employees are well-coordinated and can effectively communicate with each other and customers; and. •  improving internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures to ensure timely and accurate reporting of operational and financial results.. If we fail to effectively manage expansion or implement new systems, or if we fail to implement improvements or maintain effective internal controls and procedures, costs and expenses may increase more than expected and we may not expand our customer base, increase renewal rates, enhance existing applications, develop new applications, satisfy customers, respond to competitive pressures, or otherwise execute our business plan. If we are unable to effectively manage our growth, our operating results will be harmed.. 21. Our growth strategy depends in part on the success of our strategic relationships with third parties and their continued performance and alignment.. To continue our growth we will need to continue to develop various third-party relationships. In particular, our growth strategy depends on continuing to develop successful go-to-market partnerships with key technology, system integrator and consultant partners both domestically and internationally to help validate our solutions and provide introductions to certain potential customers, and in some cases to resell our solutions, or provide professional services related to them. Failure to successfully develop and implement strategic third-party relationships with resellers, technology providers and service providers could significantly harm our operating results. For example, results may suffer if efforts towards developing our go-to-market relationships consume resources and incur costs, but do not result in a commensurate increase in revenue for us. We also may enter into relationships with other businesses to expand our solutions or our ability to provide our solutions in international locations, which could involve preferred or exclusive licenses, additional channels of distribution, discount pricing or investments in other companies. The cost of developing and maintaining such relationships may go unrecovered or unrewarded.. If we fail to offer high-quality professional services and support, our business and reputation may suffer. If we fail to reduce the cost of those services, our operating results may be harmed.. High-quality professional services and support, including training, implementation and consulting services, are important for the successful marketing, sale and use of our solutions and for the renewal of subscriptions by existing customers. The importance of high-quality professional services and support will increase as we expand our business and pursue new customers. If we do not provide effective ongoing support, our ability to retain and sell additional functionality and applications to existing customers may suffer, and our reputation with existing or potential customers may be harmed.. At the same time, these services are provided at relatively high cost to us with resulting fees to the customer. These factors may negatively impact the future revenue growth for our solutions or lengthen the sales cycle, either of which would be detrimental to our business. We continue to pursue strategies to reduce the amount of professional services required for a customer to begin to use and gain value from our solutions, lower the overall costs of professional service fees to our customers, and improve the gross margin of our professional services business. If we are unable to successfully accomplish these objectives, our operating results, including our profit margins, may be harmed.. We rely on our management team and other key employees, and the loss of one or more key employees could harm our business.. Our success and future growth depend upon the continued services of our management team, including Sunny Gupta, one of our founders and our chief executive officer, and other key employees in the areas of engineering, marketing, sales, services and general and administrative functions. From time to time, there may be changes in our management team resulting from the hiring or departure of executives, which could disrupt our business. We also are dependent on the continued service of our existing software engineers and information technology personnel because of the complexity of our software, technologies and infrastructure. We may terminate any employee's employment at any time, with or without cause, and any employee may resign at any time, with or without cause. We do not maintain any \"key man\" insurance for any employee. The loss of one or more of our management team members or key employees could harm our business.. If our network or computer systems are breached or unauthorized access to customer data is otherwise obtained, our applications may be perceived as insecure and we may lose existing customers or fail to attract new customers, our reputation may be damaged and we may incur significant liabilities.. Our operations involve the storage and transmission of our customers' sensitive and proprietary information. Cyber-attacks and other malicious internet-based activity continue to increase generally, and cloud-based platform providers of software and services have been targeted. If any unauthorized access to or security breaches of our platform, or those of our service providers, occurs, or is believed to have occurred, such an event or perceived event could result in the loss of data, loss of intellectual property, loss of business, severe reputational or brand damage adversely affecting customer or investor confidence, regulatory investigations and orders, litigation, indemnity. 22. obligations, damages for contract breach, penalties for violation of applicable laws, regulations, or contractual obligations, and significant costs for remediation that may include liability for stolen assets or information and repair of system damage that may have been caused, incentives offered to customers or other business partners in an effort to maintain business relationships after a breach, and other liabilities. Additionally, any such event or perceived event could impact our reputation, harm customer confidence, hurt our sales and expansion into existing and new markets, or cause us to lose existing customers. We could be required to expend significant capital and other resources to alleviate problems caused by such actual or perceived breaches and to remediate our systems, we could be exposed to a risk of loss, litigation or regulatory action and possible liability, and our ability to operate our business may be impaired. Additionally, actual, potential or anticipated attacks may cause us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees and engage third-party experts and consultants.. In addition, if the security measures of our customers are compromised, even without any actual compromise of our own systems, we may face negative publicity or reputational harm if customers or anyone else incorrectly attributes the blame for such security breaches to us or our systems. If customers believe that our applications do not provide adequate security for the storage of personal or other sensitive information or its transmission over the internet, our business will be harmed. Customers' concerns about security or privacy may deter them from using our platform for activities that involve personal or other sensitive information.. Our errors and omissions insurance covering certain security and privacy damages and claim expenses may not be sufficient to compensate for all liability. Although we maintain insurance for liabilities incurred as a result of some security and privacy damages, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all. Because the techniques used and vulnerabilities exploited to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or vulnerabilities or implement adequate preventative measures. We may also experience security breaches that may remain undetected for an extended period.. Because data security is a critical competitive factor in our industry, we make public statements in our privacy policies, on our website, and elsewhere describing the security of our platform. Should any of these statements be untrue, become untrue, or be perceived to be untrue, even if through circumstances beyond our reasonable control, we may face claims, including claims of unfair or deceptive trade practices, brought by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, state, local, or foreign regulators, and private litigants.. Interruptions or performance problems associated with our technology and infrastructure may adversely affect our business and operating results.. Our continued growth depends in part on the ability of our existing and potential customers to access our applications at any time. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, disruptions, outages, and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, introductions of new capabilities, human or technology errors, distributed denial of service attacks, or other security related incidents. In some instances, we may not be able to identify the cause or causes of these performance problems within an acceptable period of time. It may become increasingly difficult to maintain and improve our performance, especially during peak usage times and as our platform becomes more complex and our user traffic increases. If our applications are unavailable or if our users are unable to access our applications within a reasonable amount of time, or at all, our business will be harmed.. Moreover, our customer agreements often include performance guarantees and service level standards that may obligate us to provide credits or termination rights in the event of a significant disruption in our platform. To the extent that our third-party service providers experience outages, or to the extent we do not effectively address capacity constraints, upgrade our systems as needed, and continually develop our technology and network architecture to accommodate actual and anticipated changes in technology, our business and operating results may be adversely affected.. 23. Our use of \"open source\" software could negatively affect our ability to offer our applications and subject us to possible litigation.. Our applications use \"open source\" software that we, in some cases, have obtained from third parties. Open source software is generally freely accessible, usable and modifiable, and is made available to the general public on an \"as-is\" basis under the terms of a non-negotiable license. Use and distribution of open source software may entail greater risks than use of third-party commercial software. Open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the software. In addition, certain open source licenses, like the GNU Affero General Public License, or AGPL, may require us to offer for no cost the components of our software that incorporate the open source software, to make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create by incorporating or using the open source software, or to license our modifications or derivative works under the terms of the particular open source license. If we are required, under the terms of an open source license, to release the source code of our proprietary software to the public, our competitors could create similar applications with lower development effort and time, which ultimately could result in a loss of sales for us.. We may also face claims alleging noncompliance with open source license terms or infringement or misappropriation of proprietary software. These claims could result in litigation, require us to purchase a costly license or require us to devote additional research and development resources to re-engineer our applications, any of which would have a negative effect on our business and operating results, including being enjoined from the offering of the components of our software that contained the open source software. We could also be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. Litigation could be costly for us to defend, have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition and require us to devote additional research and development resources to re-engineer our applications.. Although we monitor our use of open source software to avoid subjecting our applications to unintended conditions, few courts have interpreted open source licenses, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a way that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our applications. We cannot guarantee that we have incorporated open source software in our software in a manner that will not subject us to liability, or in a manner that is consistent with our current policies and procedures.. Our business is dependent upon our brand recognition and reputation, and if we fail to maintain or enhance our brand recognition or reputation, our business could be harmed.. We believe that maintaining and enhancing our brand and our reputation are critical to our relationships with our customers and to our ability to attract new customers. We also believe that our brand and reputation will be increasingly important as competition in our market continues to develop. Our success in this area will depend on a wide range of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the following:. •  the efficacy of our marketing efforts;. •  our ability to continue to offer high-quality, innovative and error- and bug-free applications;. •  our ability to maintain the security and privacy of our customer's sensitive and proprietary information;. •  our ability to retain existing customers and obtain new customers;. •  our ability to maintain high customer satisfaction;. •  the quality and perceived value of our applications;. •  our ability to successfully differentiate our applications from those of our competitors;. •  actions of competitors and other third parties;. •  our ability to provide high quality customer support and professional services;. •  any data breach or data loss or misuse or perceived misuse of our applications;. •  positive or negative publicity;. 24. •  interruptions, delays or attacks on our platform or applications; and. •  litigation, legislative or regulatory-related developments.. If our brand promotion activities are not successful, our operating results and growth may be harmed.. Furthermore, negative publicity, whether or not justified, relating to events or activities attributed to us, employees, partners or others associated with any of these parties, may tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand. Damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity may reduce demand for our applications and have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, any attempts to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brands may be costly and time consuming, and such efforts may not ultimately be successful.. We are materially invested in the formation and growth of the TBM Council, and our efforts in that area may fail to have a positive effect on our overall growth.. We have invested a significant amount of our money and time into the formation and growth of the TBM Council. Our ability to help build that organization, maintain strong relationships with the individuals involved, and build a positive public profile of the TBM Council and our association with the council, may have an effect on our overall success. It is possible that our efforts in this area will not yield the results that we are anticipating or the benefits of such efforts will not offset the costs.. We rely upon data centers and other systems and technologies provided by third parties, and technology systems and electronic networks supplied and managed by third parties, to operate our business and interruptions or performance problems with these systems, technologies and networks may adversely affect our business and operating results.. We rely on data centers and other technologies and services provided by third parties in order to operate our business. If any of these services becomes unavailable or otherwise is unable to serve our requirements due to extended outages, interruptions, facility closure, or because it is no longer available on commercially reasonable terms, expenses could increase, our ability to manage finances could be interrupted and our operations otherwise could be disrupted or otherwise impacted until appropriate substitute services, if available, are identified, obtained, and implemented.. We do not control, or in some cases have limited control over, the operation of the data center facilities we use, and they are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. They may also be subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct, and to adverse events caused by operator error. We may not be able to rapidly switch to new data centers or move customers from one data center to another in the event of any adverse event. Despite precautions taken at these facilities, the occurrence of a natural disaster, an act of terrorism or other act of malfeasance, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems at these facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our service and the loss of customer data.. Our ability to provide services and solutions to our subscribers also depends on our ability to communicate with our subscribers through the public internet and electronic networks that are owned and operated by third parties. In addition, in order to provide services on-demand and promptly, our computer equipment and network servers must be functional 24 hours per day, which requires access to telecommunications facilities managed by third parties and the availability of electricity, which we do not control. A severe disruption of one or more of these networks or facilities, including as a result of utility or third-party system interruptions, could impair our ability to process information and provide services to our customers.. Any unavailability of, or failure to meet our requirements by, third-party data centers or other third-party technologies or services, or any disruption of the internet or the third-party networks or facilities that we rely upon, could impede our ability to provide services to our subscribers, harm our reputation, result in a loss of subscribers, cause us to issue refunds or service credits to customers, subject us to potential liabilities, result in contract. 25. terminations, and adversely affect our renewal rates. Any of these circumstances could adversely affect our business and operating results.. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business and impair our ability to provide our solutions to our customers, resulting in costs for remediation, customer dissatisfaction, and other business or financial losses.. Our operations depend, in part, on our ability to protect our facilities against damage or interruption from natural disasters, power or telecommunications failures, criminal acts and similar events. Despite precautions taken at our facilities, the occurrence of a natural disaster, an act of terrorism, vandalism or sabotage, spikes in usage volume or other unanticipated problems at a facility could result in lengthy interruptions in the availability of our applications. Our headquarters are located in Bellevue, Washington, which is situated near active earthquake fault lines. Even with current and planned disaster recovery arrangements, our business could be harmed. Also, in the event of damage or interruption, our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that we may incur. These factors in turn could further reduce revenue, subject us to liability and cause us to issue credits or cause customers to fail to renew their subscriptions, any of which could harm our business.. We may not timely and effectively scale our existing technology, including our computing architecture, to meet the performance and other requirements placed on our systems, which could increase expenditures unexpectedly and create risk of outages and other performance and quality of service issues for our customers.. Our future growth and renewal rates depend on our ability to meet our customers' expectations with respect to the speed and other performance attributes of our solutions, and to meet the expanding needs of our customers as their use of our solutions grows. The number of users, the amount and complexity of data ingested, created, transferred, processed and stored by us, the number of locations where our applications are being accessed, and the number of processes and systems managed by us on behalf of these customers, among other factors, separately and combined, can have an effect on the performance of our applications. In order to ensure that we meet the performance and other requirements of our customers, we continue to make significant investments to develop and implement new technologies in our software and infrastructure operations. These technologies, which include database, application and server advancements, revised network and hosting strategies, and automation, are often advanced, complex, and sometimes broad in scope and untested via industry-wide usage. We may not be successful in developing or implementing these technologies. To the extent that we do not develop offerings and scale our operations in a manner that maintains performance as our customers expand their use, our business and operating results may be harmed.. We may not accurately assess the capital and operational expenditures required to successfully fulfill our objectives and our financial performance may be harmed as a result. Further, we may make mistakes in the technical execution of these efforts to improve our solutions, which may affect our customers. Issues that may arise include performance (speed), data loss, and outages as well as other issues that could give rise to customer satisfaction issues, loss of business, and harm to our reputation. If any of these were to occur there would be a negative and potentially significant impact to our financial performance. Lastly, our ability to generate new applications, and improve our current solutions may be limited if and to the extent resources are necessarily allocated to address issues related to the performance of existing solutions.. Real or perceived errors, failures, or bugs in our applications could adversely affect our operating results and growth prospects.. We update our applications on a frequent basis. Despite efforts to test our updates, errors, failures or bugs may not be found in our applications until after they are deployed to our customers. We have discovered and expect we will continue to discover errors, failures and bugs in our applications and anticipate that certain of these errors, failures and bugs will only be discovered and remediated after deployment to customers. Real or perceived errors, failures or bugs in our applications could result in negative publicity, government inquiries, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our applications, loss of competitive position, or claims by customers for losses sustained by them. In such an event, we may be required, or may choose, for customer relations or other reasons, to expend additional resources in order to help correct the problem.. 26. We implement bug fixes and upgrades as part of our regular system maintenance, which may lead to system downtime. Even if we are able to implement the bug fixes and upgrades in a timely manner, any history of inaccuracies in the data we collect for our customers, or the loss, damage or inadvertent release or exposure of confidential or other sensitive data could cause our reputation to be harmed and result in claims against us, and customers may elect not to purchase or renew their agreements with us or we may incur increased insurance costs. The costs associated with any material defects or errors in our applications or other performance problems may be substantial and could harm our operating results.. Because many of our customers use our applications to store and retrieve critical information, we may be subject to liability claims if our applications do not work properly. We cannot be certain that the limitations of liability set forth in our licenses and agreements would be enforceable or would otherwise protect us from liability for damages. A material liability claim against us, regardless of its merit or its outcome, could result in substantial costs, significantly harm our business reputation and divert management's attention from our operations.. We are subject to governmental laws, regulation and other legal obligations, particularly related to privacy, data protection and information security, and any actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could harm our business.. Personal privacy and information security are significant issues in the United States and the other jurisdictions where we offer our applications. The legislative and regulatory framework for privacy and security issues worldwide is rapidly evolving and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. We collect PII and other data from our customers and users. Our handling of data is subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including regulation by various government agencies, including the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, and various state, local and foreign agencies.. In the United States, the FTC and many state attorneys general are applying federal and state consumer protection laws to impose standards for the online collection, use and dissemination of data. Many foreign countries and governmental bodies, including the European Union, or EU, Canada, and other relevant jurisdictions where we conduct business, have laws and regulations concerning the collection and use of PII obtained from their residents or by businesses operating within their jurisdiction. These laws and regulations often are more restrictive than those in the United States. Laws and regulations in these jurisdictions apply broadly to the collection, use, storage, disclosure and security of data that identifies or may be used to identify or locate an individual, such as names, email addresses and, in some jurisdictions, Internet Protocol addresses. In the EU, where companies must meet specified privacy and security standards, Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, commonly referenced as the Data Protection Directive, and EU member state implementations of the Data Protection Directive, require comprehensive information privacy and security protections for consumers with respect to PII collected about them. The EU has adopted a General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, to supersede the Data Protection Directive. This regulation, which will become fully effective on May 25, 2018, will cause EU data protection requirements to be more stringent and provide for greater penalties for noncompliance.. An October 2015 ruling of the Court of Justice of the EU, the EU's highest court, invalidated the EU  -  U.S. Safe Harbor Framework as a method of compliance with restrictions set forth in the Data Protection Directive (and member states' implementations thereof) regarding the transfer of data outside of the European Economic Area, or EEA. As a result of this ruling, we have entered into contractual provisions with certain European customers that impose additional obligations on us with respect to our handling of PII from the EEA. Additionally, U.S. and EU authorities reached a political agreement in February 2016 regarding a new potential means for legitimizing personal data transfers from the EEA to the U.S., the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework, and we have joined the Privacy Shield Framework. We publicly post our privacy policies and practices concerning our processing, use and disclosure of PII. Our publication of our Privacy Shield filing, our privacy policy, and other statements we publish that provide promises and assurances about privacy and security can subject us to potential state and federal action if they are found to be deceptive or misrepresentative of our practices. Additionally, we may find it necessary or desirable to join industry or other self-regulatory bodies or other privacy- or data protection-related organizations that require compliance with their rules pertaining to privacy and data protection. We also may be bound by additional, more stringent contractual obligations relating to our collection, use and disclosure of PII and other data.. 27. In June 2016, the United Kingdom held a referendum and voted in favor of leaving the European Union, and in March 2017, the government of the United Kingdom formally initiated the two-year withdrawal process, which has created uncertainty with regard to the regulation of data protection in the United Kingdom. A Data Protection Bill has been introduced to the United Kingdom's House of Lords that proposes to substantially implement the European Union's European General Data Protection Regulation. Nevertheless, the Data Protection Bill must complete the legislative process, so it remains unclear what modifications will be made to the final legislation.. Although we are working to comply with those federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations, industry standards, contractual obligations and other legal obligations that apply to us, those laws, regulations, standards and obligations are evolving and may be modified, interpreted and applied in an inconsistent manner from one jurisdiction to another, and may conflict with one another, other requirements or legal obligations, our practices or the features of our applications or platform. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with federal, state or foreign laws or regulations, industry standards, contractual obligations or other legal obligations, or any actual or suspected security incident, whether or not resulting in unauthorized access to, or acquisition, release or transfer of PII or other data, may result in governmental enforcement actions and prosecutions, private litigation, fines and penalties or adverse publicity and could cause our customers to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. Any inability to adequately address privacy and security concerns, even if unfounded, or comply with applicable laws, regulations, policies, industry standards, contractual obligations, or other legal obligations could result in additional cost and liability to us, damage our reputation, inhibit sales, and adversely affect our business.. We also expect that there will continue to be new proposed laws, regulations and industry standards concerning privacy, data protection and information security in the United States, the European Union and other jurisdictions, and we cannot yet determine the impact such future laws, regulations and standards may have on our business. Future laws, regulations, standards and other obligations, and changes in the interpretation of existing laws, regulations, standards and other obligations could impair our or our customers' ability to collect, use or disclose information relating to consumers, which could decrease demand for our applications, increase our costs and impair our ability to maintain and grow our customer base and increase revenue. New laws, amendments to or re-interpretations of existing laws and regulations, industry standards, contractual obligations and other obligations may require us to incur additional costs and restrict our business operations. Such laws and regulations may require companies to implement privacy and security policies, permit users to access, correct and delete personal information stored or maintained by such companies, inform individuals of security breaches that affect their personal information, and, in some cases, obtain individuals' consent to use PII for certain purposes. In addition, a foreign government could require that any PII collected in a country not be disseminated outside of that country, and we may face difficulty in complying with any such requirement for certain geographic regions. If we fail to comply with federal, state and international data privacy laws and regulations our ability to successfully operate our business and pursue our business goals could be harmed.. Third-party claims that we are infringing the intellectual property rights of others, whether successful or not, could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or require us to obtain expensive licenses, and our business could be harmed.. The technology industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights. Companies in the technology industry must often defend against litigation claims based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Third parties, including our competitors, may own patents or other intellectual property rights that cover aspects of our technology or business methods and may assert patent or other intellectual property rights against us and others in the industry. Moreover, in recent years, individuals and groups that are non-practicing entities, commonly referred to as \"patent trolls,\" have purchased patents and other intellectual property assets for the purpose of making claims of infringement in order to extract settlements. From time to time, we may receive threatening letters, notices or \"invitations to license,\" or may be the subject of claims that our applications and business operations infringe or violate the intellectual property rights of others. Responding to such claims, regardless of their merit, can be time consuming, costly to defend in litigation, divert management's attention and resources, damage our reputation and brand and cause us to incur significant expenses. Claims of intellectual property infringement might require us to stop using technology found to infringe a third party's rights, redesign our application, which could require significant effort and expense and cause delays of releases, enter into costly settlement or license. 28. agreements or pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling our applications. If we cannot or do not license the infringed technology on reasonable terms or at all, or substitute similar technology from another source, we could be forced to limit or stop selling our applications, we may not be able to meet our obligations to customers under our customer contracts, revenue and operating results could be adversely impacted, and we may be unable to compete effectively. Additionally, our customers may not purchase our applications if they are concerned that they may infringe third-party intellectual property rights. The occurrence of any of these events may harm our business.. In our subscription agreements with our customers, we generally agree to indemnify our customers against any losses or costs incurred in connection with claims by a third party alleging that the customer's use of our applications infringes the intellectual property rights of the third party. Our customers who are accused of intellectual property infringement may seek indemnification from us. If any claim is successful, or if we are required to indemnify or defend our customers from any of these or other claims, these matters could be disruptive to our business and management and result in additional legal expenses.. The success of our business depends in part on our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights.. Our success is dependent, in part, upon protecting our proprietary technology. Our issued patents, and any patents issued in the future, may not provide us with any competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties, and our patent applications may never be granted. Additionally, the process of obtaining patent protection is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. Even if issued, there can be no assurance that these patents will adequately protect our intellectual property, as the legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of patent and other intellectual property rights are uncertain.. Any patents that are issued may subsequently be invalidated or otherwise limited, allowing other companies to develop offerings that compete with ours, which could adversely affect our competitive business position, business prospects and financial condition. In addition, issuance of a patent does not guarantee that we have a right to practice the patented invention. Patent applications in the United States are typically not published until 18 months after filing or, in some cases, not at all, and publications of discoveries in industry-related literature lag behind actual discoveries. We cannot be certain that we were the first to use the inventions claimed in our issued patents or pending patent applications or otherwise used in our software, that we were the first to file for protection in our patent applications, or that third parties do not have blocking patents that could be used to prevent us from marketing or practicing our patented software or technology. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available to us in every country in which our software is available. The laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States (in particular, some foreign jurisdictions do not permit patent protection for software), and mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be inadequate. Additional uncertainty may result from changes to intellectual property legislation enacted in the United States (including the recent \"America Invents Act\") and other national governments and from interpretations of the intellectual property laws of the United States and other countries by applicable courts and agencies. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property.. Although we enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and consultants and enter into confidentiality agreements with our customers and the parties with whom we have strategic relationships and business alliances, no assurance can be given that these agreements will be effective in controlling access to and distribution of our applications and propriety information or prevent reverse engineering. Further, these agreements may not prevent our competitors from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our applications, and we may be unable to prevent this competition.. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Such litigation could be costly, time consuming and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. We may. 29. not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate. Any litigation, whether or not resolved in our favor, could subject us to substantial costs, divert resources and the attention of management and technical personnel from our business and adversely affect our business. Our inability to protect our proprietary technology against unauthorized copying or use, as well as any costly litigation, could delay further sales or the implementation of our software and offerings, impair the functionality of our software and offerings, delay introductions of new features or enhancements, result in our substituting inferior or more costly technologies into our software and offerings, or injure our reputation.. We may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Litigation also puts our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Additionally, we may provoke third parties to assert counterclaims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate, and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially viable. Any litigation, whether or not it is resolved in our favor, could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Future acquisitions could disrupt our business and may divert management's attention and if unsuccessful, harm our business.. We may choose to expand by making acquisitions that could be material to our business. To date, we have completed two acquisitions, one minor acquisition in 2012 and the Digital Fuel acquisition in 2018, and our ability as an organization to successfully acquire and integrate technologies or businesses is limited. Acquisitions involve many risks, including the following:. •  an acquisition may negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition because it may require us to incur charges or assume substantial debt or other liabilities, may cause adverse tax consequences or unfavorable accounting treatment, may expose us to claims and disputes by third parties, including intellectual property claims and disputes, or may not generate sufficient financial return to offset additional costs and expenses related to the acquisition;. •  we may encounter difficulties or unforeseen expenditures in integrating the business, technologies, products, personnel or operations of any company that we acquire, particularly if key personnel of the acquired company decide not to work for us;. •  an acquisition may disrupt our ongoing business, divert resources, increase expenses and distract management;. •  an acquisition may disrupt existing or potential new partner relationships;. •  an acquisition may result in a delay or reduction of customer purchases for both us and the company we acquired due to customer uncertainty about continuity and effectiveness of service from either company;. •  we may encounter difficulties in, or may be unable to, successfully sell any acquired products;. •  an acquisition may involve the entry into geographic or business markets in which we have little or no prior experience or where competitors have stronger market positions;. •  challenges inherent in effectively managing an increased number of employees in diverse locations;. •  the potential strain on our financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures;. •  potential known and unknown liabilities associated with an acquired company;. •  our use of cash to pay for acquisitions would limit other potential uses for our cash;. •  if we incur debt to fund such acquisitions, such debt may subject us to material restrictions on our ability to conduct our business as well as financial maintenance covenants;. •  the risk of impairment charges related to potential write-downs of acquired assets or goodwill in future acquisitions;. 30. •  to the extent that we issue a significant amount of equity or equity-linked securities in connection with future acquisitions, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease; and. •  managing the varying intellectual property protection strategies and other activities of an acquired company.. We may not succeed in addressing these or other risks or any other problems encountered in connection with the integration of any acquired business. The inability to integrate successfully the business, technologies, products, personnel or operations of any acquired business, or any significant delay in achieving integration, could harm our business and operating results.. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, and if we fail to raise capital when needed, we could be prevented from growing.. Our business and operations may consume resources faster than we anticipate. While we believe our cash and cash equivalents and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to support our planned operations for at least the next 12 months, in the future, we may need to raise additional funds to invest in future growth opportunities. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to invest in future growth opportunities, which could harm our business and operating results. In addition, future debt instruments may impose restrictions on our ability to dispose property, make changes in our business, engage in mergers or acquisitions, incur additional indebtedness, and make investments and distributions. Furthermore, if we issue additional equity securities, stockholders will experience dilution, and the new equity securities could have rights senior to those of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. As a result, stockholders bear the risk that future securities offerings reduce the market price of our Class A common stock and dilute their interest.. We may be subject to additional obligations to collect and remit sales tax and other taxes, and we may be subject to tax liability for past sales, which could harm our business.. We do not collect sales and use, value added and similar taxes in all jurisdictions in which we have sales, based on our belief that such taxes are not applicable in certain jurisdictions. State, local and foreign jurisdictions have differing rules and regulations governing sales, use, value added and other taxes, and these rules and regulations are subject to varying interpretations that may change over time. In particular, the applicability of such taxes to our software in various jurisdictions is unclear. Further, these jurisdictions' rules regarding tax nexus are complex and vary significantly. As a result, we could face the possibility of tax assessments and audits. Our liability for these taxes and associated penalties and interest could exceed our original estimates, and we could be required to collect additional taxes in the future. A successful assertion that we should be collecting additional sales, use, value added or other taxes in those jurisdictions where we have not historically done so and do not accrue for such taxes could result in substantial tax liabilities and related penalties for past sales, discourage customers from purchasing our application or otherwise harm our business and operating results.. Changes in tax laws or regulations that are applied adversely to us or our customers could increase the costs of our applications and adversely impact our business.. New income, sales, use or other tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be enacted at any time, which could affect the tax treatment of our (and our subsidiaries') domestic and foreign earnings. Any new taxes could adversely affect our domestic and international business operations, and our business and financial performance. Further, existing tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be interpreted, changed, modified or applied adversely to us. For example, the recently adopted Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, or the Tax Act, contains many significant changes to U.S. tax laws, including changes in corporate tax rates, the taxation of foreign earnings, and the deductibility of certain expenses. We have performed preliminary analyses of the impacts of the Tax Act using information available at this time regarding our deferred tax assets and liabilities and taxation of foreign earnings.  The impact of the Tax Act may differ from our initial estimates due to, among other things, changes in interpretations and assumptions we have made, Internal Revenue Service and Treasury Department guidance that may be issued and actions we may take. The effects of Tax Act provisions are still being evaluated by. 31. management, and this report does not purport to disclose all effects of the Tax Act which could have material positive or negative impacts on our current or future tax position. Furthermore, changes to the taxation of undistributed foreign earnings could change our future intentions regarding reinvestment of such earnings.  In addition, taxation of cloud-based applications is constantly evolving as many state and local jurisdictions consider the taxability of software services provided remotely. These events could require us or our customers to pay additional tax amounts on a prospective or retroactive basis, as well as require us or our customers to pay fines or penalties and interest for past amounts deemed to be due. If we raise our prices to offset the costs of these changes, existing and potential future customers may elect not to continue or purchase our platform or applications in the future. Additionally, new, changed, modified or newly interpreted or applied tax laws could increase our customers' and our compliance, operating and other costs, as well as the costs of our software. Any or all of these events could harm our business and operating results.. We are a multinational organization faced with increasingly complex tax issues in many jurisdictions, and we could be obligated to pay additional taxes in various jurisdictions.. As a multinational organization, we may be subject to taxation in several jurisdictions around the world with increasingly complex tax laws, the application of which can be uncertain, and significant judgment and estimates are required in determining our provision for taxes. Our tax expense may be impacted if our intercompany transactions, which are required to be computed on an arm's-length basis, are challenged and successfully disputed by tax authorities. Our policies governing transfer pricing may be determined to be inadequate and could result in additional tax assessments. The amount of taxes we pay in these jurisdictions could increase substantially as a result of changes in the applicable tax principles, including increased tax rates, new tax laws or revised interpretations of existing tax laws and precedents, which could harm our liquidity and operating results. In addition, the authorities in these jurisdictions could review our tax returns and impose additional tax, interest and penalties, and the authorities could claim that various withholding requirements or other taxes apply to us or our subsidiaries (including withholding and indirect taxes on software licenses and related intercompany transactions) or assert that benefits of tax treaties are not available to us or our subsidiaries, any of which could adversely affect our operating results.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited.. As of December 31, 2017, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $207.9 million, which will expire between 2028 and 2036. Under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change\" (generally defined as a greater than 50-percentage-point cumulative change (by value) in the equity ownership of certain stockholders over a rolling three-year period), the corporation's ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes (such as research tax credits) to offset its post-change taxable income or taxes may be limited. We may experience such an ownership change in the future as a result of subsequent shifts in our stock ownership, some of which are outside our control. Furthermore, our ability to utilize the net operating losses or other tax attributes of companies that we may acquire in the future may be subject to limitations. There is also a risk that due to regulatory changes, such as suspensions on the use of net operating losses, or other unforeseen reasons, our existing net operating losses could expire or otherwise be unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities. For these reasons, our ability to use our pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes to offset post-change taxable income or taxes may be subject to limitation, which could potentially result in increased future tax liability to us.. Future changes in the regulations and laws of the United States, or those of the international markets in which we do business, could harm our business.. We are subject to general business regulations and laws, as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the internet and software, in the United States as well as the international markets in which we do business. These regulations and laws may cover employment, taxation, privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, mobile communications, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, unencumbered internet access to our services, the design and operation of websites, and the characteristics and quality of software and services. It is possible changes to these regulations and laws, as well as compliance challenges related to the complexity of multiple, conflicting and changing sets of applicable regulations and laws, may impact our sales, operations, and future growth.. 32. Significant U.K. or European developments stemming from the U.K.'s referendum on membership in the European Union could have a material adverse effect on us.. In March 2017, the government of the United Kingdom formally initiated the withdrawal process from the European Union. This has created political and economic uncertainty, particularly in the United Kingdom and the European Union, and this uncertainty may last for years. Our business in the United Kingdom, the European Union, and worldwide could be affected during this period of uncertainty, and perhaps longer, by the impact of the United Kingdom's referendum. There are many ways in which our business could be affected, only some of which we can identify as of the date of this report.. The decision of the United Kingdom to withdraw from the European Union, has caused and, along with events that could occur in the future as a consequence of the United Kingdom's withdrawal, including the possible breakup of the United Kingdom, may continue to cause significant volatility in global financial markets, including in global currency and debt markets. This volatility could cause a slowdown in economic activity in the United Kingdom, Europe or globally, which could adversely affect our operating results and growth prospects. In addition, our business could be negatively affected by new trade agreements or data transfer agreements between the United Kingdom and other countries, including the United States, and by the possible imposition of trade or other regulatory barriers in the United Kingdom. Furthermore, we currently operate in Europe through an Apptio subsidiary based in the United Kingdom, which currently provides us with certain operational, tax and other benefits, as well as through other subsidiaries in Europe. The United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union could adversely affect our ability to realize those benefits and we may incur costs and suffer disruptions in our European operations as a result. These possible negative impacts, and others resulting from the United Kingdom's actual or threatened withdrawal from the European Union, may adversely affect our operating results and growth prospects.. Increased sales to U.S. federal, state, local and foreign governments expose us to risks inherent in government sales and procurement.. Contracts with U.S. federal, state, local and foreign government entities are subject to various procurement regulations and other requirements relating to their formation, administration and performance. We may be subject to audits and investigations relating to our government contracts and any violations could result in various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contract, refunding or suspending of payments, forfeiture of profits, payment of fines and suspension or debarment from future government business. Further, in order to obtain, and in some cases expedite, sales to certain government customers, we may enter into subcontractor agreements with existing approved government contractors subjecting us to further risks associated with those subcontractor agreements as well as the potential default or breach of the underlying agreements between the approved government contractors and government entity to which we are not a party.. Risks Related to the Ownership of our Common Stock. The dual class structure of our common stock has the effect of concentrating voting control with stockholders who hold Class B common stock, including our executive officers, employees and directors and their affiliates, which will limit your ability to influence the outcome of important transactions, including a change in control.. Our Class B common stock has 10 votes per share, and our Class A common stock, which is the stock we offered in our IPO, has one vote per share. Our executive officers and directors and their related parties, which include funds affiliated with Madrona Venture Group and Shasta Ventures, collectively beneficially own shares representing approximately 81% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock, as of December 31, 2017. Because of the ten-to-one voting ratio between Class B common stock and Class A common stock, the holders of Class B common stock collectively continue to control a majority of the combined voting power of our capital stock and therefore are able to control all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval until the earlier of (1) the seventh anniversary of the closing of our IPO and (2) the date on which the Class B common stock ceases to represent at least 25% of our outstanding common stock, on which date all of the shares of Class B common stock will automatically convert to Class A common stock. These holders of Class B common stock may also have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. This concentrated control may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of. 33. our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their capital stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our Class A common stock.. Future transfers by holders of Class B common stock will generally result in those shares converting into shares of Class A common stock, subject to limited exceptions, such as certain transfers effected for estate planning purposes. The conversion of shares of Class B common stock into shares of Class A common stock will have the effect, over time, of increasing the relative voting power of those holders of Class B common stock who retain their shares in the long term, which may include our executive officers and directors and their affiliates.. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly and the value of your investment may decline significantly.. The trading price of Class A common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. In addition to the other risks discussed in this report, these factors include:. •  actual or anticipated fluctuations in revenue and other operating results, including as a result of the addition or loss of any number of customers;. •  announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments;. •  the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet these projections;. •  failure of securities analysts to maintain coverage of us, changes in ratings and financial estimates and the publication of other news by any securities analysts who follow our company, or our failure to meet these estimates or the expectations of investors;. •  changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of cloud-based software or other technology companies, or those in our industry in particular;. •  the size of our public float;. •  price and volume fluctuations in the trading of our Class A common stock and in the overall stock market, including as a result of trends in the economy as a whole or in the technology industry;. •  new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business or industry, including data privacy and data security;. •  lawsuits threatened or filed against us for claims relating to intellectual property, employment issues or otherwise;. •  changes in our board of directors or management;. •  short sales, hedging and other derivative transactions involving our Class A common stock;. •  sales of large blocks of our common stock including sales by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; and. •  other events or factors, including changes in general economic, industry and market conditions and trends, as well as any natural disasters that may affect our operations.. The stock market in general, and market prices for the securities of technology companies like ours in particular, have from time to time experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of the underlying companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In several recent situations when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders were to bring a lawsuit against us, the defense and disposition of the lawsuit could be costly and divert the time and attention of our management and harm our operating results.. 34. If securities or industry analysts issue an adverse opinion about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our Class A common stock is and will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who cover us issues an adverse opinion about our company, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases research coverage of us or fails to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. Future sales of our common stock could cause our stock price to fall.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock into the public market, particularly sales by our directors, executive officers, and principal stockholders, or the perception that these sales might occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate.. As of December 31, 2017, 27,402,965 shares of our Class A common stock were outstanding and 14,709,981 shares of our Class B common stock were outstanding. All shares of common stock sold are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act, unless held by our \"affiliates,\" as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. In addition, the shares subject to outstanding options, restricted stock units, or RSUs, and warrants, of which options, RSUs and warrants to purchase 7,490,344 shares, 2,029,802 shares and 10,604 shares, respectively, were outstanding as of December 31, 2017, and the shares reserved for future issuance under our stock option and equity incentive plans will become available for sale immediately upon the exercise of such options. We register the offer and sale of all shares of common stock that we may issue under our equity compensation plans. As a consequence, the sale of shares to be issued under our equity incentive plans can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to the restrictions of Rule 144 under the Securities Act, in the case of our affiliates.. As of December 31, 2017, the holders of 10,437,088 shares, or approximately 25% of our common stock, have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering the sale of their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. Once we register the offer and sale of shares for the holders of registration rights, they can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to the restrictions of Rule 144 under the Securities Act, in the case of our affiliates.. In addition, in the future, we may issue additional shares of Class A common stock or other equity or debt securities convertible into Class A common stock in connection with a financing, acquisition, commercial relationship, litigation settlement, employee arrangements or otherwise. Any such issuance could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and could cause our stock price to decline.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware or Washington law could make an acquisition of us difficult, limit attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management and adversely affect our stock price.. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may delay or discourage transactions involving an actual or potential change in our control or change in our management, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares, or transactions that our stockholders might otherwise deem to be in their best interests. Therefore, these provisions could adversely affect the price of our stock. Among other things, the certificate of incorporation and bylaws will:. •  permit the board of directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, with any rights, preferences and privileges as they may designate;. •  provide that the authorized number of directors may be changed only by resolution of the board of directors;. 35. •  provide that all vacancies, including newly-created directorships, may, except as otherwise required by law, be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of directors then in office, even if less than a quorum;. •  divide the board of directors into three classes;. •  provide that a director may only be removed from the board of directors by the stockholders for cause;. •  require that any action to be taken by our stockholders must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and may not be taken by written consent;. •  provide that stockholders seeking to present proposals before a meeting of stockholders or to nominate candidates for election as directors at a meeting of stockholders must provide notice in writing in a timely manner, and meet specific requirements as to the form and content of a stockholder's notice;. •  prevent cumulative voting rights (therefore allowing the holders of a plurality of the shares of common stock entitled to vote in any election of directors to elect all of the directors standing for election, if they should so choose);. •  require that, to the fullest extent permitted by law, a stockholder reimburse us for all fees, costs and expenses incurred by us in connection with a proceeding initiated by such stockholder in which such stockholder does not obtain a judgment on the merits that substantially achieves the full remedy sought;. •  provide that special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board, our chief executive officer (or president, in the absence of a chief executive officer) or by the board of directors;. •  provide that stockholders will be permitted to amend the bylaws only upon receiving at least two-thirds of the total votes entitled to be cast by holders of all outstanding shares then entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class; and. •  authorize two classes of common stock.. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any \"interested\" stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an \"interested\" stockholder. Likewise, because our principal executive offices are located in Washington, the anti-takeover provisions of the Washington Business Corporation Act may apply to us under certain circumstances now or in the future. These provisions prohibit a \"target corporation\" from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any stockholder constituting an \"acquiring person\" for a period of five years following the date on which the stockholder became an \"acquiring person.\". Our certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees.. Our certificate of incorporation provides that, unless we otherwise consent in writing, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, any action asserting a breach of fiduciary duty, any action asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, our certificate of incorporation or our bylaws, any action to interpret, apply, enforce, or determine the validity of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws, or any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. The choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and other employees. Alternatively, if a court were to find the choice of forum provision contained in our certificate of incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. 36. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" and any decision on our part to comply only with certain reduced reporting and disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies could make our Class A common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups, or JOBS, Act enacted in April 2012, and, for as long as we continue to be an \"emerging growth company,\" we may choose to take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies but not to \"emerging growth companies,\" including, but not limited to, not being required to have our independent registered public accounting firm audit our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We could be an \"emerging growth company\" for up to five years following the closing of our IPO, although, if we have more than $1.07 billion in annual revenue, if the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last business day in June, or we issue more than $1.0 billion of non-convertible debt over a three-year period before the end of that five-year period, we would cease to be an \"emerging growth company\" as of the following December 31. We cannot predict if investors will find our Class A common stock less attractive if we choose to rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our Class A common stock less attractive as a result of any choices to reduce future disclosure, there may be a less active trading market for our Class A common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. As an \"emerging growth company\" the JOBS Act, allows us to delay adoption of new or revised accounting pronouncements applicable to public companies until such pronouncements are made applicable to private companies. We have elected to use this extended transition period under the JOBS Act. As a result, our financial statements may not be comparable to the financial statements of issuers who are required to comply with the effective dates for new or revised accounting standards that are applicable to public companies, which may make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We incur increased costs by being a public company.. As a public company, and particularly after we cease to be an \"emerging growth company,\" we will incur greater legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements. We also anticipate that we will incur costs associated with corporate governance requirements, including requirements of the SEC and the Nasdaq Global Market. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We also expect that these rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs.. When our independent registered public accounting firm is required to undertake an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, the cost of our compliance with Section 404 will correspondingly increase. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 applicable to us in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources.. 37"
