[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We operate in a dynamic and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties. Certain factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations, and you should carefully consider them. Accordingly, in evaluating our business, we encourage you to consider the following discussion of risk factors, in its entirety, in addition to other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other public filings with the SEC. Other events that we do not currently anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. 14. Table of Contents. Risks Related to the Company. As a result of our sale of non-U.S. Vitaros assets to Ferring and the receipt of the 2018 CRL, we do not expect to generate revenue for the foreseeable future.. In March 2017, we entered into the Ferring Asset Purchase Agreement, pursuant to which we sold to Ferring our assets and rights related to Vitaros outside of the United States for approximately $12.7 million, which consisted of an upfront payment of $11.5 million, approximately $0.7 million for the delivery of certain product-related inventory, and an aggregate of $0.5 million related to transition services. Following the Ferring Asset Purchase Agreement, we no longer have the ability to generate revenues from our current operations. As a result of the 2018 CRL, there is doubt as to when, if ever, we will be able to generate revenues in the future. Our future growth will depend on our assessment of the approvability of Vitaros, as well as RayVa, and to identify other business opportunities. If we are unable to successfully execute on this business strategy, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects would be materially and adversely affected.. Our business is dependent on obtaining FDA approval for Vitaros, for which the FDA issued the 2018 CRL, and our other current and future product candidates, which will require significant additional clinical testing before we can seek regulatory approval and potentially begin commercialization.. Our future success depends on our ability to obtain regulatory approval for, and then successfully commercialize our product candidates. The success of Vitaros, our leading product candidate, will depend on whether we are able to successfully address the issues identified in the 2018 CRL issued by the FDA in February 2018. A CRL is a communication from the FDA that informs companies that an application cannot be approved in its present form. The 2018 CRL identified deficiencies related to CMC and that the modest treatment effect did not outweigh certain safety concerns specific to the 2.5% concentration of our permeation enhancer DDAIP.HCl contained in the current formulation. In March 2018, we plan to request a meeting with the FDA to further clarify the deficiencies raised in the CRL and to assess the best pathway forward for a potential approval of Vitaros. We may be unsuccessful in identifying a pathway to resubmit the Vitaros NDA, and even if we believe a pathway is available, we may determine it is not commercially reasonable to continue to develop Vitaros. The 2018 CRL was the second one received from the FDA with respect to the Vitaros NDA. In 2008, the FDA issued the 2008 CRL, identifying certain deficiencies with the NDA previously submitted. Based on our subsequent interactions with the FDA, we believed that we could address the deficiencies in the 2008 CRL without additional clinical testing and we did not include such data in the NDA submitted in August 2017. Based on the 2018 CRL and guidance we may receive at our upcoming end-of-review meeting, we may need to complete additional clinical testing, which would likely require significant expenditures of cash and management resources. An NDA must include extensive pre-clinical and clinical data and supporting information to establish the drug candidate's safety and effectiveness for each desired indication. The NDA must also include significant information regarding the chemistry, manufacturing and controls for the product. Obtaining approval of an NDA is a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process and may not be obtained on a timely basis, or at all. We have not received marketing approval for any product candidates in the United States, and we cannot be certain that our product candidates will be successful in clinical trials or receive regulatory approval for any indication.. Our other product candidate, RayVa, will require additional clinical and non-clinical development, regulatory review and approval in multiple jurisdictions, substantial investment, access to sufficient commercial manufacturing capacity and significant marketing efforts before we can generate any revenues from product sales. We are not permitted to market or promote our product candidates in the United States before we receive regulatory approval from the FDA and we may not receive such regulatory approvals on a timely basis, or at all.. In addition, approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by foreign regulatory authorities does not ensure approval by FDA or regulatory authorities in other foreign countries. However, the failure to obtain approval in one jurisdiction may have a negative impact on our ability to obtain approval elsewhere.. Our clinical development plan for RayVa includes a Phase 2b take-home clinical trial and up to two Phase 3 clinical trials in patients with Raynaud's Phenomenon secondary to scleroderma. We reported results on the Phase 2a clinical trial in September 2015. The CMC and safety concerns raised in the FDA's 2018 CRL for Vitaros may affect RayVa's future development path since the underlying NexACT technology is utilized in both. There is no guarantee that we will be able to commence clinical trials or that future ongoing clinical trials will be completed on time or at all, and the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may disagree with the design or implementation of our clinical trials. Even if such regulatory authorities agree with the design and implementation of our clinical trials, we cannot guarantee that such regulatory authorities will not change their requirements in the future. In addition, even if the clinical trials are successfully completed, we cannot guarantee that the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities will interpret the results as we do, and more trials could be required before we submit our product candidates for approval. To the extent that the results of the clinical trials are not satisfactory to the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities for support of a marketing application, approval of our product candidates may be significantly delayed, or we may be required to expend significant additional resources, which may not be available to us, to conduct additional trials in support of potential approval of our product candidates.. 15. Table of Contents. If we do not receive regulatory approvals for and successfully commercialize our product candidates on a timely basis or at all, we may not be able to continue our operations. Even if we successfully obtain regulatory approvals to market our product candidates, our revenues will be dependent, in part, on our ability to commercialize our product candidates and on the favorability of the claims in the approved labeling as well as the size of the markets in the territories for which we gain regulatory approval and have commercial rights. If the markets for the treatment of Raynaud's Phenomenon secondary to scleroderma are not as significant as we estimate, our business and prospects will be harmed.. We expect to continue to require external financing to fund our operations, which may not be available.. We expect to require external financing to fund our near and long-term operations. Such financing may not be available on terms we deem acceptable or at all.. As of December 31, 2017, we had a cash balance of approximately $6.3 million. In September 2017, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement (the \"September 2017 SPA\") for net proceeds of approximately $3.1 million. In April 2017, we completed a public offering and raised net proceeds of approximately $5.9 million. In March 2017, we entered into the Ferring Asset Purchase Agreement, pursuant to which we sold to Ferring our assets and rights related to Vitaros outside of the United States for approximately $12.7 million, which consisted of an upfront payment of $11.5 million, approximately $0.7 million for the delivery of certain product-related inventory, and an aggregate of $0.50 million related to transition services. As part of the Ferring Asset Purchase Agreement, we have agreed to indemnify Ferring against losses suffered as a result of our breach of representations and warranties and our other obligations under our asset purchase agreement, and therefore may be liable for a portion of the consideration we received from Ferring.. We currently have an effective shelf registration statement on Form S-3 filed with the SEC under which we may offer from time to time any combination of debt securities, common and preferred stock and warrants. Under current SEC regulations, at any time during which the aggregate market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates (\"public float\") is less than $75.0 million, the amount we can raise through primary public offerings of securities in any twelve-month period using shelf registration statements, including sales under the Aspire Purchase Agreement, is limited to an aggregate of one-third of our public float. SEC regulations permit us to use the highest closing sales price of our common stock (or the average of the last bid and last ask prices of our common stock) on any day within 60 days of sales under the shelf registration statement. As of February 26, 2018, our public float was approximately $46.9 million based on 14.7 million shares of our common stock outstanding at a price of $3.19 per share, which was the closing sale price of our common stock on February 15, 2018. Since our public float is currently less than $75.0 million, as of February 26, 2018, we may only sell an aggregate of approximately $15.6 million of securities under our shelf registration statements on Form S-3. We still maintain the ability to raise funds through other means, such as through the filing of a registration statement on Form S-1 or in private placements. The rules and regulations of the SEC or any other regulatory agencies may restrict our ability to conduct certain types of financing activities, or may affect the timing of and amounts we can raise by undertaking such activities.. While we have historically generated modest revenues from our operations, following the Ferring Asset Purchase Agreement, we will no longer generate those revenues. Given our current lack of revenue sources and limited capital resources, we may not be able to execute all of the elements of our strategic plan. If we are unable to accomplish these objectives, our business prospects will be diminished, we will likely be unable to achieve profitability, and we may be unable to continue as a going concern.. We have a history of operating losses and an accumulated deficit, and we may be unable to generate sufficient revenue to achieve profitability in the future.. We have never been profitable and we have incurred an accumulated deficit of approximately $316.0 million from our inception through December 31, 2017. We have incurred these losses principally from costs incurred in funding the research, development and clinical testing of our product candidates, from our general and administrative expenses and from our efforts to support commercialization of Vitaros by our partners prior to entering into the Ferring Asset Purchase Agreement. As a result of the Ferring Asset Purchase Agreement, we do not expect to generate revenue for the foreseeable future and will continue to incur significant operating losses and capital expenditures for the foreseeable future.. Our ability to generate revenues and become profitable depends, among other things, on the successful development and commercialization of our product candidates and our ability to identify and execute on other opportunities and business combinations that will enable us to maximize shareholder value. We will need significant additional capital to pursue these objectives and sustain our operations.. There is substantial doubt concerning our ability to continue as a going concern.. Our financial statements have been prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. During the first quarter of 2017, we received an upfront payment of $11.5 million from the Ferring Asset Purchase Agreement but a large portion of that was used to payoff our Credit Facility, and we expect to incur further losses for the foreseeable future. In April 2017, we completed a public offering for net. 16. Table of Contents. proceeds of approximately $5.9 million and in September 2017, we entered into the September 2017 SPA for net proceeds of approximately $3.1 million. Our history and other operating circumstances raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. As a result of this uncertainty and the substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern as of December 31, 2017, the Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm included immediately prior to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report, includes a going concern explanatory paragraph. Management plans to raise additional funds and preserve existing cash resources with the following activities: future financing events; potential partnering events of our existing technology; and by the reduction of expenditures. However, no assurance can be given at this time as to whether we will be able to achieve these objectives. Our financial statements do not include any adjustment relating to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts or the amounts and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should we be unable to continue as a going concern.. We currently have no long-term agreement with a manufacturer and will be dependent upon third party manufacturers for our product candidates.. We do not manufacture our product candidates, and do not in the future expect to be able to independently conduct our product manufacturing. We do not currently have a long-term commitment for the production of finished Vitaros or the raw materials and components thereof. If we are unable to establish any long-term agreements with such third-party manufacturers and suppliers or to do so on acceptable terms, or such parties are unable to produce sufficient quantities of finished Vitaros product or the raw materials and components thereof that we need, we may need to identify and qualify other third-party manufacturers in order to commence or sustain the commercialization of Vitaros.. Even if we establish a long-term manufacturing agreement for finished Vitaros or the raw materials and components thereof, we will continue to be dependent on third party manufacturers for the supply of these product candidates and commercial quantities, if approved. The manufacturing process for our product candidates is highly regulated and regulators may refuse to qualify new suppliers and/or terminate manufacturing at existing facilities that they believe do not comply with regulations.. Our third-party manufacturers and suppliers would be subject to numerous regulations, including current Good Manufacturing Practices (\"cGMP\"), regulations governing manufacturing processes and related activities and similar foreign regulations. The facilities used by our third-party manufacturers to manufacture our product candidates must be approved by the applicable regulatory authorities pursuant to inspections that will be conducted in connection with the FDA's review of any resubmission of our NDA. If our third-party manufacturers cannot successfully manufacture material that conforms to our specifications and the applicable regulatory authorities' strict regulatory requirements, or pass regulatory inspection, they will not be able to secure or maintain regulatory approval for the manufacturing facilities. In addition, our third-party manufacturers and suppliers are independent entities who are subject to their own operational and financial risks that are out of our control, and we have no control over the ability of these third party manufacturers to maintain adequate quality control, quality assurance, and qualified personnel. If we or any of these third-party manufacturers or suppliers fail to perform as required or fail to comply with the regulations of the FDA, our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis, receive royalties or continue our clinical trials would be adversely affected. Further, if the FDA does not approve these facilities for the manufacture of our products, including our third-party manufacturer for the finished product Vitaros, or if it withdraws such approval in the future, or if our suppliers or third party manufacturers decide they no longer wish to manufacture our products, we may need to find alternative manufacturing facilities, which would significantly impact our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval for, or market our product candidates, if approved. Also, the manufacturing processes of our manufacturing partners may be found to violate the proprietary rights of others, which could interfere with their ability to manufacture products on a timely and cost effective basis.. In addition, we are also dependent on third party manufacturers and suppliers of raw materials, components, chemical supplies for the active drugs in our product candidates under development for the formulation and supply of our NexACT enhancers and finished products. We are dependent on these third-party manufacturers for dispensers that are essential in the production of Vitarosand other product candidates. These raw materials, components, chemical supplies, finished products and dispensers must be supplied on a timely basis and at satisfactory quality levels.. If our third party product manufacturers or suppliers of raw materials, components, chemical supplies, finished products and dispensers fail to produce quality products on time and in sufficient quantities, or if we are unable to secure adequate alternative sources of supply for such materials, components, chemicals, finished products and dispensers, our results would suffer, as we or our licensees would encounter costs and delays in re-validating new third party suppliers.. 17. Table of Contents. If we do not secure collaborations with strategic partners to develop and commercialize our product candidates we may not be able to successfully develop our product candidates and generate meaningful revenues from them.. A key aspect of our current strategy is to selectively enter into a strategic collaboration with one or more third parties to conduct clinical testing for, seek regulatory approval for and to commercialize our product candidates. We may not be successful in securing a strategic partner on favorable terms, or at all. If we are able to identify and reach an agreement with one or more collaborators, our ability to generate revenues from these arrangements will depend on our collaborators' abilities to successfully perform the functions assigned to them in these arrangements. Collaboration agreements typically call for milestone payments that depend on successful demonstration of efficacy and safety in required clinical trials and obtaining regulatory approvals. Collaboration revenues are not guaranteed, even when efficacy and safety are demonstrated.. Even if we succeed in securing collaborators, the collaborators may fail to develop or effectively commercialize our product candidates. Collaborations involving our product candidates pose a number of risks, including the following:. • collaborators may not have sufficient resources or may decide not to devote the necessary resources due to internal constraints such as budget limitations, lack of human resources, or a change in strategic focus;. • collaborators may believe our intellectual property is not valid or is unenforceable or the product candidate infringes on the intellectual property rights of others;. • collaborators may dispute their responsibility to conduct development and commercialization activities pursuant to the applicable collaboration, including the payment of related costs or the division of any revenues;. • collaborators may decide to pursue a competitive product developed outside of the collaboration arrangement;. • collaborators may not be able to obtain, or believe they cannot obtain, the necessary regulatory approvals;. • collaborators may delay the development or commercialization of our product candidates in favor of developing or commercializing their own or another party's product candidate; or. • collaborators may decide to terminate or not to renew the collaboration for these or other reasons.. As a result, collaboration agreements may not lead to development or commercialization of our product candidates in the most efficient manner or at all.. In addition, collaboration agreements are generally terminable without cause on short notice. Once a collaboration agreement is signed, it may not lead to commercialization of the product candidate. We also face competition in seeking out collaborators. If we are unable to secure collaborations that achieve the collaborator's objectives and meet our expectations, we may be unable to advance our product candidates and may not generate meaningful revenues.. Clinical trials are inherently unpredictable and involve a lengthy and expensive process with an uncertain outcome. If we do not successfully conduct certain clinical trials or gain regulatory approval, we may be unable to market our product candidates.. Our product candidates are in various stages of development. Through clinical trials and life cycle management programs, our current and future product candidates must be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the FDA to be safe and effective for their indicated uses. Results from pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials may not be indicative of, or allow for, prediction of results in later-stage testing. Future clinical trials and studies may not demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our product candidates or may not result in regulatory approval to market our product candidates. A number of companies in the biopharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials due to lack of efficacy or adverse safety profiles, notwithstanding promising results in earlier trials. Clinical trial failures may occur at any stage and may result from a multitude of factors both within and outside our control, including flaws in formulation, adverse safety or efficacy profile and flaws in trial design, among others. If the trials result in negative or inconclusive results, we or our collaborators may decide, or regulators may require us, to discontinue trials of the product candidates or conduct additional clinical trials. In addition, data obtained from trials and studies are susceptible to varying interpretations, and regulators may not interpret our data as favorably as we do, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. For these reasons, our future clinical trials may not be successful.. We do not know whether any future clinical trials we may conduct will demonstrate consistent or adequate efficacy and safety to obtain regulatory approval to market our product candidates. If any product candidate for which we are conducting clinical trials is found to be unsafe or lack efficacy, we will not be able to obtain regulatory approval for it. If we are unable to bring any of our current or future product candidates to market, our business would be materially harmed and our ability to create long-term stockholder value will be limited.. 18. Table of Contents. If we are unable to adequately establish, maintain and protect our intellectual property rights, we may incur substantial litigation costs and may be unable to generate significant product revenue.. Protection of the intellectual property for our product candidates is of material importance to our business in the United States and other countries. We have sought and will continue to seek proprietary protection for our product candidates to attempt to prevent others from commercializing equivalent products. Our success may depend on our ability to (1) obtain effective patent protection within the United States and internationally for our proprietary technologies and product candidates, (2) defend patents we own, (3) preserve our trade secrets and (4) operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. In addition, we have agreed to indemnify certain of our former partners for certain liabilities with respect to the defense, protection and/or validity of our patents and would also be required to incur costs or forgo revenue if it is necessary for our former partners to acquire third party patent licenses in order for them to exercise the licenses acquired from us. Upon the closing of the Ferring Asset Purchase Agreement, we transferred the patents related to Vitaros and DDAIP outside the United States to Ferring; however we remain liable for any claims from our former partners prior to the closing of the Ferring Asset Purchase Agreement.. While we have obtained patents and have many patent applications pending, the extent of effective patent protection in the United States and other countries is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. No consistent policy addresses the breadth of claims allowed in, or the degree of protection afforded under, patents of medical and pharmaceutical companies. Patents we currently own or may obtain might not be sufficiently broad enough to protect us against competitors with similar technology. Any of our patents could be invalidated or circumvented.. Furthermore, holders of competing patents could allege that our activities infringe on their rights and could potentially prevail in litigation against us. We have also sold certain patents in transactions where we have licensed rights to our drug candidates. In certain of these transactions, we have agreed to indemnify the purchaser from third party patent claims, which could expose us to potentially significant damages for patents that we no longer own. Any litigation could result in substantial cost to us and would divert management's attention, which may harm our business. In addition, our efforts to protect or defend our proprietary rights may not be successful or, even if successful, may result in substantial cost to us.. The patent protection for NexACT, a key component of Vitaros and RayVa, may expire before we are able to maximize its commercial value, which may subject us to increased competition and reduce or eliminate our opportunity to generate product revenue.. The patents for NexACT alone have varying expiration dates and, when these patents expire, we may be subject to increased competition and we may not be able to recover our development costs. Although patents covering the combination of NexACT and alprostadil do not expire until starting in 2032, we may be unable to prevent others from using NexACT. In connection with the Ferring Asset Purchase Agreement, we transferred certain non-U.S. patents related to DDAIP and certain U.S. and non-U.S. patents related to DDAIP in combination with alprostadil and received a perpetual, exclusive (even as to Ferring), fully transferable, fully sublicensable, royalty-free, fully paid-up license to such patents.. We face a high degree of competition.. We are engaged in a highly competitive industry. Even if we are able to successfully address the issues raised by the FDA in the 2018 CRL and ultimately, obtain approval in the United States for Vitaros, we would compete against many companies and research institutions that research, develop and market products in areas similar to those in which we operate. For example, Viagra®(Pfizer), Cialis®(Lilly), Levitra®(Glaxo Smith Kline), Stendra®(Mist Pharmaceuticals, LLC), Muse® (Meda Pharmaceuticals Inc.), and Caverject® (Pfizer, Inc.) are currently approved for treatment of ED.. These and other competitors may have specific expertise and development technologies that are better than ours. Many of these competitors, which include large pharmaceutical companies, have substantially greater financial resources, larger research and development capabilities and substantially greater experience than we do. Accordingly, our competitors may successfully develop competing products. We are also competing with other companies and their products with respect to manufacturing efficiencies and marketing capabilities, areas where we have limited or no direct experience.. We currently have no sales and marketing resources, and we may not be able to effectively market and sell our products.. We do not currently have a commercial organization for sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products, and therefore we must build this organization or make arrangements with third parties to perform these functions in order to commercialize any products that we successfully develop and for which we obtain regulatory approvals. If we develop an internal sales force, we will have to compete with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to recruit, hire, train and retain sales and marketing personnel. We will also face competition in our search for collaborators and potential co-promoters, if we choose such an option. To the extent we may rely on third parties to co-promote or otherwise commercialize any product candidates in one or more regions that may receive regulatory approval, we are likely to receive less revenue than if we commercialized these products ourselves. Further, by entering into strategic partnerships or similar arrangements, we may rely in part on such third parties for financial and. 19. Table of Contents. commercialization resources. Even if we are able to identify suitable partners to assist in the commercialization of our product candidates, they may be unable to devote the resources necessary to realize the full commercial potential of our products.. In addition, if the Vitaros NDA is approved by the FDA, Allergan has a one-time opt-in right for a period of sixty days following the later of (i) receipt by Allergan of the option package from the Company following the NDA resubmission or (ii) FDA approval, to assume all future commercialization activities for Vitaros in the United States. If Allergan exercises its opt-in right, we may receive up to a total of $25 million in upfront and potential launch milestone payments, plus a double-digit royalty on net sales of Vitaros. If Allergan elects not to exercise its opt-in right, we expect to commercialize Vitaros, either through an internally built commercial organization, a contract sales force or by partnering with a pharmaceutical company with established sales and marketing capabilities.. Further, we may lack the financial and managerial resources to establish a sales and marketing organization to adequately promote and commercialize any product candidates that may be approved. The establishment of a sales force will result in an increase in our expenses, which could be significant before we generate revenues from any newly approved product candidate. Even though we may be successful in establishing future partnership arrangements, such sales force and marketing teams may not be successful in commercializing our products, which would adversely affect our ability to generate revenue for such products, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. Business development activity involves numerous risks, including the risks that we may be unable to integrate an acquired business successfully and that we may assume liabilities that could adversely affect us.. In order to augment our product pipeline or otherwise strengthen our business, we may decide to acquire or license additional businesses, products and technologies. We cannot be sure our business expenditures will result in the successful acquisition, development or launch of products that will prove to be commercially successful or will improve the long-term profitability of our business. Acquisitions or licenses could require us to raise significant capital and potentially incur significant dilution through issuance of new shares of capital stock. These strategic transactions involve many risks, including, but not limited to, the following:. • difficulties in achieving identified financial revenue synergies, growth opportunities, operating synergies and cost savings;. • difficulties in assimilating the personnel, operations and products of an acquired company, and the potential loss of key employees;. • difficulties in consolidating information technology platforms, business applications and corporate infrastructure;. • difficulties in integrating our corporate culture with local customs and cultures;. • possible overlap between our products or customers and those of an acquired entity that may create conflicts in relationships or other commitments detrimental to the integrated businesses;. • our inability to achieve expected revenues and gross margins for any products we may acquire;. • the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns;. • risks and challenges of entering or operating in markets in which we have limited or no prior experience, including the unanticipated effects of export controls, exchange rate fluctuations, foreign legal and regulatory requirements, and foreign political and economic conditions; and. • difficulties in reorganizing, winding-down or liquidating operations if not successful.. In addition, foreign acquisitions involve numerous risks, including those related to changes in local laws and market conditions and due to the absence of policies and procedures sufficient to assure compliance by a foreign entity with United States regulatory and legal requirements. Business development activities require significant transaction costs, including substantial fees for investment bankers, attorneys, and accountants. Any acquisition could result in our assumption of material unknown and/or unexpected liabilities. We also cannot provide assurance that we will achieve any cost savings or synergies relating to recent or future acquisitions. Additionally, in any acquisition agreement, the negotiated representations, warranties and agreements of the selling parties may not entirely protect us, and liabilities resulting from any breaches could exceed negotiated indemnity limitations. These factors could impair our growth and ability to compete, divert resources from other potentially more profitable areas, or otherwise cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. The financial statements of acquired companies, or those that may be acquired in the future, are prepared by management of such companies and are not independently verified by our management. In addition, any pro forma financial statements prepared by us to give effect to such acquisitions may not accurately reflect the results of operations of such companies that would have been achieved had the acquisition of such entities been completed at the beginning of the applicable periods.. We will need approval from the FDA for our proposed trade names. Any failure or delay associated with such approvals may delay the commercialization of our products.. 20. Table of Contents. Any trade name we intend to use for our product candidates will require approval from the FDA regardless of whether we have secured a formal trademark registration from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Although Ferring currently uses the registered trademark of Vitaros for commercial sales in various countries outside of the United States, the FDA has objected to our commercial use of the name Vitaros in the United States. If we resubmit an NDA for this product candidate, we would need to propose an alternate trade name for review by the FDA. The FDA typically conducts a rigorous review of proposed trade names, including an evaluation of potential for confusion with other trade names and medication error. The FDA also may object to a trade name if it believes the name is inappropriately promotional. Even after the FDA approves a trade name, the FDA may request that we adopt an alternative name for the product if adverse event reports indicate a potential for confusion with other trade names and medication error.. We may be subject to product liability and similar claims, which may lead to a significant financial loss if our insurance coverage is inadequate.. We are exposed to potential product liability risks inherent in the development, testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of human therapeutic products, including liability resulting from the sale of Vitaros outside of the United States prior to the closing of the Ferring Asset Purchase Agreement. Product liability insurance for the pharmaceutical industry is extremely expensive, difficult to obtain and may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Although we maintain various types of insurance, we have no guarantee that the coverage limits of such insurance policies will be adequate. If liability claims were made against us, it is possible that our insurance carriers may deny, or attempt to deny, coverage in certain instances. A successful claim against us if we are uninsured, or which is in excess of our insurance coverage, if any, could have a material adverse effect upon us and on our financial condition.. Our business and operations would be adversely impacted in the event of a failure or security breach of our information technology infrastructure.. We rely upon the capacity, reliability and security of our information technology hardware and software infrastructure, including internet-based systems, and our ability to expand and update this infrastructure in response to our changing needs. We are constantly updating our information technology infrastructure. Any failure to manage, expand and update our information technology infrastructure or any failure in the operation of this infrastructure could harm our business.. Despite our implementation of security measures, our systems and those of our business partners may be vulnerable to damages from cyber-attacks, computer viruses, natural disasters, unauthorized access, telecommunication and electrical failures, and other similar disruptions. Our business is also potentially vulnerable to break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism by third parties as well as employees. Any system failure, accident or security breach could result in disruptions to our operations, could lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, could lead to the public exposure of personal information of our employees, clinical trial participants and others, and could result in a material disruption to our clinical and commercialization activities and business operations. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, it could harm our business and cause us to incur liability. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future.. If we fail to attract and retain senior management and key scientific personnel, we may be unable to successfully operate our business.. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and scientific personnel and on our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with healthcare providers, clinicians and scientists. We are highly dependent upon our senior management and scientific staff.  We have incurred attrition at the senior management level in the past, and although we have employment agreements with five of our executives, these agreements are generally terminable at will at any time, and, therefore, we may not be able to retain their services as expected. The loss of services of one or more members of our senior management and scientific staff could delay or prevent us from successfully operating our business. Competition for qualified personnel in the biotechnology and pharmaceuticals field is intense, particularly in the San Diego, California area, where our offices are located. We may need to hire additional personnel to support development efforts for current or future product candidates. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel on acceptable terms.. Our ability to maintain, expand or renew existing business relationships and to establish new business relationships, particularly in the drug development sector, also depends on our ability to subcontract and retain scientific staff with the skills necessary to keep pace with continuing changes in drug development technologies.. 21. Table of Contents. From time to time we are subject to various legal proceedings, which could expose us to significant liabilities.. We, as well as certain of our officers and distributors, are subject, from time to time, to a number of legal proceedings. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and any claims and disputes may result in significant legal fees and expenses regardless of merit and could divert management's time and other resources. If we are unable to successfully defend or settle any claims asserted against us, we could be liable for damages and be required to alter or cease certain of our business practices or product lines. Any of these outcomes could cause our business, financial performance and cash position to be negatively impacted. There is no guarantee of a successful result in any of these lawsuits regardless of merit, either in defending these claims or in pursuing counterclaims.. We are exposed to potential risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate internal controls over financial reporting.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we report annually on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Among other things, we must perform systems and processes evaluation testing. This includes an assessment of our internal controls to allow management to report on, and our independent public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In connection with our compliance efforts, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur or expend, substantial accounting and other expenses and significant management time and resources. Further, we have previously identified and disclosed material weaknesses existed in our internal control over financial reporting over the accounting for and disclosures of technical accounting matters in the consolidated financial statements and effective monitoring and oversight over the controls in the financial reporting process. While our management concluded that we remediated these previous material weaknesses, there can be no assurances that our future assessments, or the future assessments by our independent registered public accounting firm, will not reveal further material weaknesses in our internal controls. If material weaknesses are identified in the future we would be required to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are ineffective, which would likely require additional financial and management resources and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. If we fail to comply with our obligations in our intellectual property licenses and funding arrangements with third parties, we could lose rights that are important to our business.. We are party to a license agreement with Allergan that imposes diligence, development and commercialization timelines, royalty, insurance and other obligations on us. Under our existing licensing agreement, and upon approval, if any, of Vitaros in the United States, we are obligated to pay royalties on net product sales of U.S. Vitaros to the extent they are covered by the agreements. If we fail to comply with our obligations, Allergan may have the right to terminate this agreement, in which event we might not be able to develop, manufacture or market the product covered by this agreement and may face other penalties under the agreement. Such an occurrence could materially adversely affect the value of product candidates being developed using rights licensed to us under any such agreement. Termination of this agreement or reduction or elimination of our rights under this agreement may result in our having to negotiate new or reinstated agreements with less favorable terms, or cause us to lose our rights under this agreement, including our rights to important intellectual property or technology.. We may enter into license agreements in the future that could impose diligence, development and commercialization timelines, milestone payments, royalty, insurance and other obligations.. Industry Risks. Instability and volatility in the financial markets in the global economy could have a negative impact on our ability to raise necessary funds.. During the past several years, there has been substantial volatility in financial markets due in part to the global economic environment. In addition, there has been substantial uncertainty in the capital markets and access to financing is uncertain. If these conditions continue, they are likely to have an adverse effect on our industry and business, including our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We expect to need to raise capital through equity sales and/or incur indebtedness, if available, to finance operations. However, volatility in the capital markets may have an adverse effect on our ability to fund our business strategy through sales of capital stock or through borrowings, in the public or private markets on terms that we believe to be reasonable, if at all.. Changes in trends in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, including difficult market conditions, could adversely affect our operating results.. Industry trends and economic and political factors that affect pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies also affect our business. In the past, mergers, product withdrawals, liability lawsuits and other factors in the pharmaceutical industry have slowed decision-making by pharmaceutical companies and delayed drug development projects. Continuation or increases in these trends could have an adverse effect on our business.. 22. Table of Contents. The biotechnology, pharmaceutical and medical device industries generally, and more specifically drug discovery and development, are subject to increasingly rapid technological changes. Our competitors might develop technologies, services or products that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or future technologies, services or products, or that render our technologies, services or products less competitive or obsolete. If competitors introduce superior technologies, services or products and we cannot make enhancements to our technologies, services or products to remain competitive, our competitive position, and in turn our business, revenue and financial condition, would be materially and adversely affected.. We are subject to numerous and complex government regulations which could result in delay and expense.. Governmental authorities in the United States and other countries heavily regulate the testing, manufacture, labeling, distribution, advertising and marketing of our proposed product candidates. None of our proprietary products under development have been approved for marketing in the United States. Before any products we develop are marketed, FDA and comparable foreign agency approval must be obtained through an extensive clinical study and approval process.. The failure to obtain requisite governmental approvals for our product candidates under development in a timely manner, or at all, would delay or preclude us and our licensees from marketing our product candidates or limit the commercial use of our product candidates, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For instance, the FDA issued the 2008 CRL for the Vitaros NDA and we received the 2018 CRL from the FDA in February 2018 following our resubmission of the Vitaros NDA in August 2017. As a result, we currently have no revenue-generating assets and there is doubt as to when, if ever, we will be able to generate revenues in the future.. Because certain of our product candidates may also be sold and marketed outside the United States, we and/or our licensees may be subject to foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursements. These requirements vary widely from country to country. The failure to meet each foreign country's requirements could delay the introduction of our proposed product candidates in the respective foreign country and limit our revenues from sales of our proposed product candidates in foreign markets.. We face uncertainty related to healthcare reform, pricing and reimbursement, which could reduce our future revenue.. In the United States and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of legislative and regulatory changes and proposed changes regarding the healthcare system that could, among other things, prevent or delay marketing approval of our product candidates, restrict or regulate post-approval activities and affect our ability to profitably sell Vitarosor any product candidates for which we obtain marketing approval.. For example, in March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care Education Reconciliation Act, collectively the Affordable Care Act, was enacted to broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of healthcare spending, enhance remedies against fraud and abuse, add new transparency requirements for health care and health insurance industries, impose new taxes and fees on the health industry and impose additional health policy reforms. Among the provisions of the Affordable Care Act of importance to our potential drug candidates are the following:. • an annual, nondeductible fee payable by any entity that manufactures or imports specified branded prescription drugs and biologic agents;. • an increase in the statutory minimum rebates a manufacturer must pay under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program;. • a new methodology by which rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program are calculated for drugs that are inhaled, infused, instilled, implanted or injected;. • a new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program, in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50% point-of-sale discounts, which, through subsequent legislative amendments, was increased to 70%, off negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries under their coverage gap period, as a condition for the manufacturer's outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D;. • extension of manufacturers' Medicaid rebate liability to individuals enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations;. • expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs;. • expansion of the entities eligible for discounts under the Public Health Service pharmaceutical pricing program;. • a new requirement to annually report drug samples that manufacturers and distributors provide to physicians; and a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research.. 23. Table of Contents. Since its enactment, there have been judicial and Congressional challenges to certain aspects of the Affordable Care Act. We expect that the current presidential administration and U.S. Congress will likely continue to seek to modify, repeal, or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the Affordable Care Act. Most recently, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was enacted, which, among other things, removes penalties for not complying with the Affordable Care Act's individual mandate to carry health insurance. There is still uncertainty with respect to the impact President Trump's administration and the U.S. Congress may have, if any, and any changes will likely take time to unfold, and could have an impact on coverage and reimbursement for healthcare items and services covered by plans that were authorized by the Affordable Care Act. However, we cannot predict the ultimate content, timing or effect of any healthcare reform legislation or the impact of potential legislation on us.. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted in the United States since the Affordable Care Act was enacted. These changes include aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of two percent per fiscal year, which went into effect on April 1, 2013, and due to subsequent legislative amendments, will remain in effect through 2025, unless additional Congressional action is taken. On January 2, 2013, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 was signed into law, which, among other things, further reduced Medicare payments to several types of providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. Recently there has also been heightened governmental scrutiny over the manner in which manufacturers set prices for their marketed products, which has resulted in several Congressional inquiries and proposed bills designed to, among other things, reform government program reimbursement methodologies. Individual states in the United States have also become increasingly active in implementing regulations designed to control pharmaceutical product pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, discounts, restrictions on certain product access and marketing cost disclosure and transparency measures, and, in some cases, designed to encourage importation from other countries and bulk purchasing. These new laws and the regulations and policies implementing them, as well as other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, may have a material adverse effect on our industry generally and on our ability to successfully develop and commercialize our products, if approved.. If coverage for our products is not available, reimbursement for our products is substantially less than we expect in the future, or rebate obligations associated with them are substantially increased, our business could be materially and adversely impacted. Further, numerous foreign governments are also undertaking efforts to control growing healthcare costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with medical care providers and pharmaceutical companies.. Sales of our current or any future product candidates, if approved, would depend in part on the availability of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors such as United States and foreign government insurance programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, private health insurers, health maintenance organizations and other health care related organizations. Both the federal and state governments in the United States and foreign governments continue to propose and pass new legislation affecting coverage and reimbursement policies, which are designed to contain or reduce the cost of health care. Further federal and state proposals and healthcare reforms are likely that could limit the prices that can be charged for the product candidates that we develop and may further limit our commercial opportunity. There may be future changes that result in reductions in current coverage and reimbursement levels for our products and we cannot predict the scope of any future changes or the impact that those changes would have on our operations.. Adoption by the medical community of our product candidates, if approved, may be limited if third-party payors will not offer coverage. Cost control initiatives may decrease coverage and payment levels for drugs, which in turn would negatively affect the price that we will be able to charge. We are unable to predict all changes to the coverage or reimbursement methodologies that will be applied by private or government payors to any drug candidate we have in development. Any denial of private or government payor coverage or inadequate reimbursement for our products could harm our business and reduce our revenue.. Delays in clinical trials are common and have many causes, and if we experience significant delays in the clinical development and regulatory approval of our product candidates, our business may be substantially harmed.. We may experience delays in commencing and completing clinical trials of our product candidates. We do not know whether planned clinical trials will begin on time, need to be redesigned, enroll patients on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. Any of our planned clinical trials may be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays related to:. • the availability of financial resources for us to commence and complete our planned clinical trials;. • reaching agreement on acceptable terms and pricing with prospective contract research organizations (\"CROs\") and clinical trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and clinical trial sites;. • obtaining independent institutional review board (\"IRB\") approval at each clinical trial site;. • obtaining regulatory approval to commence clinical trials in each country;. • recruiting a sufficient number of eligible patients to participate in a clinical trial;. 24. Table of Contents. • having patients complete a clinical trial or return for post-treatment follow-up;. • clinical trial sites deviating from trial protocol or dropping out of a trial;. • adding new clinical trial sites; or. • manufacturing sufficient quantities of our product candidate for use in clinical trials.. Patient enrollment is a significant factor in the timing of clinical trials and is affected by many factors including the size and nature of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial, the design of the clinical trial, competing clinical trials and clinicians' and patients' perceptions as to the potential advantages or potential side effects of the drug candidate being studied in relation to other available therapies, including any new drugs that may be approved for such indications.. We could encounter delays if physicians encounter unresolved ethical issues associated with enrolling patients in clinical trials of our product candidates in lieu of prescribing existing treatments that have established safety and efficacy profiles. Further, a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us, the IRBs in the institutions in which such trials are being conducted, the Data Monitoring Committee for such trial (if included), or by the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols, inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial site by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold, unforeseen safety issues or adverse side effects, failure to demonstrate a benefit from using a product candidate, changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions or lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. Furthermore, we rely on CROs and clinical trial sites to ensure the proper and timely conduct of our clinical trials. While we have agreements governing the CROs' services, we have limited influence over their actual performance. If we experience termination of, or delays in the completion of, any clinical trial of our product candidates, the commercial prospects for our product candidates will be harmed, and our ability to generate product revenues will be delayed. In addition, any delays in completing our clinical trials will increase our costs, slow down our product development and approval process and jeopardize our ability to commence product sales and generate revenues from our product candidates. Any of these occurrences may harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of our product candidates.. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval of our current or future product candidates, we will not be able to commercialize our product candidates and our business will be adversely impacted.. If we fail to obtain regulatory approval to market our product candidates, we will be unable to sell our product candidates, which will impair our ability to generate additional revenues. To receive approval, we must, among other things, demonstrate with substantial evidence from clinical trials, to the satisfaction of the FDA, that the product candidate is both safe and effective for each indication for which approval is sought. Failure can occur in any stage of development. Satisfaction of the approval requirements is unpredictable but typically takes several years following the commencement of clinical trials, and the time and money needed to satisfy them may vary substantially, based on the type, complexity and novelty of the pharmaceutical product. We cannot predict if or when our existing and planned clinical trials will generate the data necessary to support an NDA and if, or when, we might receive regulatory approvals for our product candidates. For example, an NDA was previously submitted for Vitaros, but the 2018 CRL identified certain deficiencies with the application.. Our product candidates could fail to receive regulatory approval for many reasons, including the following:. • the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may disagree with the design or implementation of our clinical trials;. • we may be unable to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities that our product candidates are safe and effective for any of the proposed indications;. • the results of clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities for approval;. • we may be unable to demonstrate that our product candidates' clinical and other benefits outweigh their safety risks;. • the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may disagree with our interpretation of data from preclinical studies or clinical trials;. • the data collected from clinical trials of our product candidates may not be sufficient to the satisfaction of the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities to support the submission of an NDA or other comparable submission in foreign jurisdictions or to obtain regulatory approval in the United States or elsewhere;. • the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may fail to approve the manufacturing processes or facilities of third-party manufacturers with which we contract for clinical and commercial supplies;. 25. Table of Contents. • the approval policies or regulations of the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may significantly change in a manner rendering our clinical data insufficient for approval; and. • even after following regulatory guidance or advice, the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may still reject our ultimate regulatory submissions since their guidance is generally considered non-binding and the regulatory authorities have the authority to revise or adopt new and different guidance at any time.. This lengthy approval process as well as the unpredictability of future clinical trial results may result in our failure to obtain regulatory approval to market our product candidates, which would significantly harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any approvals that we obtain may not cover all of the clinical indications for which we are seeking approval, or could contain significant limitations in the form of narrow indications, warnings, precautions or contra-indications with respect to conditions of use. In such event, our ability to generate revenues would be greatly reduced and our business would be harmed.. We have limited experience using the 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway to submit an NDA or any similar drug approval filing to the FDA, and we cannot be certain that any of our product candidates will receive regulatory approval.. If the FDA does not conclude that certain of our product candidates satisfy the requirements for the Section 505(b)(2) regulatory approval pathway, or if the requirements for such product candidates under Section 505(b)(2) are not as we expect, the approval pathway for those product candidates will likely take significantly longer, cost significantly more and entail significantly greater complications and risks than anticipated, and in either case may not be successful.. We are developing proprietary product candidates for which we may seek FDA approval through the Section 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway. The Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, also known as the Hatch-Waxman Act, added Section 505(b)(2) to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA. Section 505(b)(2) permits the filing of an NDA where at least some of the information required for approval comes from studies that were not conducted by or for the applicant and for which the applicant has not obtained a right of reference. Section 505(b)(2), if applicable to us under the FDCA, would allow an NDA we submit to FDA to rely in part on data in the public domain or the FDA's prior conclusions regarding the safety and effectiveness of approved compounds, which could expedite the development program for our product candidates by potentially decreasing the amount of clinical data that we would need to generate in order to obtain FDA approval. If the FDA does not allow us to pursue the Section 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway as anticipated, we may need to conduct additional clinical trials, provide additional data and information, and meet additional standards for regulatory approval. If this were to occur, the time and financial resources required to obtain FDA approval for these product candidates, and complications and risks associated with these product candidates, would likely substantially increase. We could need to obtain more additional funding, which could result in significant dilution to the ownership interests of our then existing stockholders to the extent we issue equity securities or convertible debt. We cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain such additional financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Moreover, inability to pursue the Section 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway could result in new competitive products reaching the market more quickly than our product candidates, which would likely materially adversely impact our competitive position and prospects. Even if we are allowed to pursue the Section 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway, we cannot assure you that our product candidates will receive the requisite approvals for commercialization.. In addition, notwithstanding the approval of a number of products by the FDA under Section 505(b)(2) over the last few years, certain brand-name pharmaceutical companies and others have objected to the FDA's interpretation of Section 505(b)(2). If the FDA's interpretation of Section 505(b)(2) is successfully challenged, the FDA may change its 505(b)(2) policies and practices, which could delay or even prevent the FDA from approving any NDA that we submit under Section 505(b)(2). In addition, the pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive, and Section 505(b)(2) NDAs are subject to special requirements designed to protect the patent rights of sponsors of previously approved drugs that are referenced in a Section 505(b)(2) NDA. These requirements may give rise to patent litigation and mandatory delays in approval of our NDAs for up to 30 months or longer depending on the outcome of any litigation. It is not uncommon for a manufacturer of an approved product to file a citizen petition with the FDA seeking to delay approval of, or impose additional approval requirements for, pending competing products. If successful, such petitions can significantly delay, or even prevent, the approval of the new product. However, even if the FDA ultimately denies such a petition, the FDA may substantially delay approval while it considers and responds to the petition. In addition, even if we are able to utilize the Section 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway, there is no guarantee this would ultimately lead to accelerated product development or earlier approval.. Moreover, even if our product candidates are approved under Section 505(b)(2), the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the products may be marketed or to other conditions of approval, or may contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the products.. 26. Table of Contents. Even if we receive regulatory approval for our product candidates, we will be subject to ongoing regulatory obligations and continued regulatory review, which may result in significant additional expense. Additionally, our product candidates, if approved, could be subject to labeling and other restrictions and market withdrawal and we may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements or experience unanticipated problems with our product candidates.. Any regulatory approvals that we receive for our product candidates may contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing testing, including Phase 4 clinical trials, and surveillance to monitor the safety and efficacy of the product candidate. The FDA may also require additional risk management activities and labeling which may limit distribution or patient/prescriber uptake. An example would be the requirement of a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy in order to approve our product candidates, which could entail requirements for a medication guide, physician communication plans or additional elements to ensure safe use, such as restricted distribution methods, patient registries and other risk minimization tools. In addition, if the FDA or a comparable foreign regulatory authority approves our product candidates, the manufacturing processes, labeling, packaging, distribution, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion, import, export and record-keeping for our product candidates will be subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. These requirements include submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, and registration. We are also required to maintain continued compliance with cGMP requirements and GCPs requirements for any clinical trials that we conduct post-approval. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our product candidates or other manufacturers' products in the same class, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or with our third-party manufacturers or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in, among other things:. • restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of our product candidates, withdrawal of the product from the market, or voluntary or mandatory product recalls;. • fines, warning letters or holds on clinical trials;. • refusal by the FDA to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us or suspension or revocation of license approvals;. • product seizure or detention, or refusal to permit the import or export of our product candidates; and. • injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties.. The FDA's and other regulatory authorities' policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent, limit or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. For example, in December 2016, the 21st Century Cures Act, or Cures Act, was signed into law.  The Cures Act, among other things, is intended to modernize the regulation of drugs and spur innovation, but its ultimate implementation is unclear. If we are slow or unable to adapt to changes in existing requirements or the adoption of new requirements or policies, or if we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may lose any marketing approval that we may have obtained and we may not achieve or sustain profitability, which would adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. We also cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative or executive action, either in the United States or abroad.  For example, certain policies of the Trump administration may impact our business and industry. Namely, the Trump administration has taken several executive actions, including the issuance of a number of Executive Orders, that could impose significant burdens on, or otherwise materially delay, FDA's ability to engage in routine regulatory and oversight activities such as implementing statutes through rulemaking, issuance of guidance, and review and approval of marketing applications. It is difficult to predict how these executive actions, including Executive Orders, will be implemented, and the extent to which they will impact the FDA's ability to exercise its regulatory authority. If these executive actions impose constraints on FDA's ability to engage in oversight and implementation activities in the normal course, our business may be negatively impacted.. Our relationships with investigators, health care professionals, consultants, third-party payors, and customers are subject to applicable healthcare regulatory laws, which could expose us to penalties.. Our business operations and arrangements with investigators, healthcare professionals, consultants, marketing partners, third-party payors and customers, may expose us to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations. These laws may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we conduct our operations, including how we research, market, sell and distribute our products and product candidates for which we obtain marketing approval. Such laws include:. • the federal Anti-Kickback Statute which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward, or in return for, either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program such as Medicare and Medicaid.  A person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute or specific intent to violate it to have committed a. 27. Table of Contents. violation; in addition, the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the False Claims Act;. • the federal False Claims Act, which imposes criminal and civil penalties, including civil whistleblower or qui tam actions, against individuals or entities for knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, to the federal government, claims for payment that are false or fraudulent or making a false statement to avoid, decrease or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government;. • the federal HIPAA, which imposes criminal and civil liability for executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters.  Similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it to have committed a violation;. • HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act and its implementing regulations, which also imposes obligations, including mandatory contractual terms, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information;. • the federal Physician Payment Sunshine Act, which requires manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children's Health Insurance Program (with certain exceptions) to report annually to the government information related to payments or other \"transfers of value\" made to physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors) and teaching hospitals, and requires applicable manufacturers and group purchasing organizations to report annually to the government ownership and investment interests held by the physicians described above and their immediate family members and payments or other \"transfers of value\" to such physician owners (manufacturers are required to submit reports to the government by the 90th day of each calendar year); and. • analogous state and foreign laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws, which may apply to sales or marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by non-governmental third party payors, including private insurers; state laws that require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government; state laws that require drug manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures and pricing information; and state and foreign laws governing the privacy and security of health information in some circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts.. Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements with third parties will comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations will involve substantial costs. It is possible that governmental authorities will conclude that our business practices do not comply with current or future statutes, regulations, agency guidance or case law involving applicable healthcare laws. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these or any other health regulatory laws that may apply to us, we may be subject to significant penalties, including the imposition of significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, monetary fines, disgorgement, individual imprisonment, possible exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs, contractual damages, reputational harm, diminished profits and future earnings, and curtailment of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our results of operations. Defending against any such actions can be costly, time-consuming and may require significant financial and personnel resources. Therefore, even if we are successful in defending against any such actions that may be brought against us, our business may be impaired.. Our product candidates may cause undesirable side effects or have other properties that could delay or prevent their regulatory approval, limit the commercial profile of an approved label, or result in significant negative consequences following marketing approval, if any.. Undesirable side effects caused by our product candidates could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in a more restrictive label or the delay or denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other comparable foreign authorities. Results of our trials could reveal a high and unacceptable severity and prevalence of undesirable side effects. In such an event, our trials could be suspended or terminated and the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities could order us to cease further development of or deny approval of our product candidates for any or all targeted indications. The drug-related side effects could affect patient recruitment or the ability of enrolled patients to complete the trial or result in potential product liability claims. Any of these occurrences may harm our business, financial condition and prospects significantly.. Additionally if one or more of our product candidates receives marketing approval, and we or others later identify undesirable side effects caused by such products, a number of potentially significant negative consequences could result, including:. • regulatory authorities may withdraw approvals of such product;. • regulatory authorities may require additional warnings on the label;. • we may be required to create a medication guide outlining the risks of such side effects for distribution to patients;. 28. Table of Contents. • we could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients; and. • our reputation may suffer.. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the particular product candidate, if approved, and could significantly harm our business, results of operations and prospects.. Our employees, independent contractors, principal investigators, CROs, consultants, commercial partners and vendors are subject to a number of regulations and standards.. We are exposed to the risk that employees, independent contractors, principal investigators, CROs, consultant and vendors may engage in fraudulent or other illegal activity for which we may be held responsible. Misconduct by these parties could include intentional, reckless and/or negligent conduct or disclosure of unauthorized activities to us that violates: (1) the laws of the FDA and other similar foreign regulatory bodies; including those laws that require the reporting of true, complete and accurate information to the FDA and other similar foreign regulatory bodies, (2) manufacturing standards, (3) healthcare fraud and abuse laws in the United States and similar foreign fraudulent misconduct laws, or (4) laws that require the true, complete and accurate reporting of financial information or data. These laws may impact, among other things, activities with principal investigators and research subjects, as well as proposed and future sales, marketing and education programs. In particular, the promotion, sales and marketing of healthcare items and services, as well as certain business arrangements in the healthcare industry, are subject to extensive laws designed to prevent fraud, kickbacks, self-dealing and other abusive practices. These laws and regulations may restrict or prohibit a wide range of pricing, discounting, marketing and promotion, structuring and commission(s), certain customer incentive programs and other business arrangements generally. Activities subject to these laws also involve the improper use of information obtained in the course of patient recruitment for clinical trials. If we obtain FDA approval for any of our product candidates and begin commercializing those products in the United States, our potential exposure under such laws will increase significantly, and our costs associated with compliance with such laws are also likely to increase. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, monetary fines, contractual damages, reputational harm, diminished profits and future earnings, and curtailment of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our results of operations.. We will rely on third parties to conduct additional preclinical studies and clinical trials.  These third parties may not perform as contractually required or expected and issues may arise that could delay the completion of clinical trials and impact regulatory approval of our product candidates.. We sometimes rely on third parties, such as CROs, medical institutions, academic institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories to conduct our preclinical studies and clinical trials.  We are responsible for confirming that our preclinical studies are conducted in accordance with applicable regulations and that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with its general investigational plan and protocol.  The FDA and the European Medicines Agency require us to comply with good laboratory practices for conducting and recording the results of our preclinical studies and GCP, for conducting, monitoring, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that the data gathered and reported results are accurate and that the clinical trial participants are adequately protected.  Our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities.  If the third parties conducting our clinical trials do not perform their contractual duties or obligations, do not meet expected deadlines, fail to comply with GCP, do not adhere to our clinical trial protocols or otherwise fail to generate reliable clinical data, we may need to enter into new arrangements with alternative third parties and our clinical trials may be more costly than expected or budgeted, extended, delayed or terminated or may need to be repeated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize the product candidate being tested in such trials.. Our CROs may also have relationships with other commercial entities, including our competitors, for whom they may also be conducting clinical studies or other drug development activities that could harm our competitive position.  If our CROs do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations, fail to meet expected deadlines or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements, or for any other reasons, our clinical studies may be extended, delayed or terminated and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize our product candidates.. We do not currently have any long-term agreements with contract manufacturers. If our future contract manufacturers are not in compliance with regulatory requirements at any stage, including post-marketing approval, we may be fined, forced to remove a product from the market and/or experience other adverse consequences, including delays, which could materially harm our business.. Recent U.S. tax legislation may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Recently-enacted U.S. tax legislation has significantly changed the U.S. federal income taxation of U.S. corporations, including by reducing the U.S. corporate income tax rate, limiting interest deductions, adopting elements of a territorial tax system, imposing a one-time transition tax (or \"repatriation tax\") on all undistributed earnings and profits of certain U.S.-owned foreign corporations, revising the rules governing net operating losses and the rules governing foreign tax credits, and introducing new anti-base erosion. 29. Table of Contents. provisions. Many of these changes are effective immediately, without any transition periods or grandfathering for existing transactions. The legislation is unclear in many respects and could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, as well as interpretations and implementing regulations by the Treasury and Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\"), any of which could lessen or increase certain adverse impacts of the legislation. In addition, it is unclear how these U.S. federal income tax changes will affect state and local taxation, which often uses federal taxable income as a starting point for computing state and local tax liabilities.. While our analysis and interpretation of this legislation is ongoing, based on our current evaluation, we have reflected a write-down of our deferred income tax assets (including the value of our net operating loss carryforwards and our tax credit carryforwards) due the reduction of the U.S. corporate income tax rate. We recorded a reduction of $19.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2017 related to the revaluation of our deferred tax assets, which will not result in additional tax expense in the quarter since we maintain a full valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets. This amount may be subject to further adjustment in subsequent periods throughout 2018 in accordance with subsequent interpretive guidance issued by the SEC or the IRS. Further, there may be other material adverse effects resulting from the legislation that we have not yet identified.. While some of the changes made by the tax legislation may adversely affect the Company in one or more reporting periods and prospectively, other changes may be beneficial on a going forward basis. We continue to work with our tax advisors and auditors to determine the full impact that the recent tax legislation as a whole will have on us. We urge our investors to consult with their legal and tax advisors with respect to such legislation.. Risks Related to Owning Our Common Stock. If we are not able to comply with the applicable continued listing requirements or standards of the Nasdaq Capital Market, Nasdaq could delist our Common Stock.. Our common stock is currently listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market (\"Nasdaq\"). In order to maintain that listing, we must satisfy minimum financial and other continued listing requirements and standards, including those regarding director independence and independent committee requirements, minimum stockholders' equity, minimum share price, and certain corporate governance requirements. There can be no assurances that we will be able to comply with the applicable listing standards.. On May 10, 2016, we received a written notification from Nasdaq indicating that we were not in compliance with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(a)(2), as the closing bid price for our Common Stock had been below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days. Pursuant to Nasdaq Listing Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), we were granted a 180 calendar day compliance period, or until November 7, 2016, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. During the compliance period, our shares of common stock continued to be listed and traded on Nasdaq. To regain compliance, the closing bid price of our shares of common stock needed to meet or exceed $1.00 per share for at least 10 consecutive business days during the 180 calendar day compliance period, which was accomplished through a 1-for-10 reverse stock split of our common stock, effected on October 21, 2016.  On November 8, 2016, we received a letter from Nasdaq confirming that we are in compliance with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(a)(2).. On June 2, 2016, we received a notice from Nasdaq stating that we were not in compliance with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(b)(2) because our market value of listed securities (\"MVLS\") was below $35 million for the previous thirty (30) consecutive business days. In accordance with Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 5810(c)(3), we were granted a 180 calendar day compliance period until November 29, 2016, to regain compliance with the minimum MVLS requirement. Compliance can be achieved by meeting the $35 million MVLS requirement for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days during the 180 calendar day compliance period,  maintaining a stockholders' equity value of at least $2.5 million, or meeting the requirement of net income of at least $500,000 for two of the last three fiscal years. On February 8, 2017, we were notified that our request for continued listing on Nasdaq pursuant to an extension through May 30, 2017 to evidence compliance with all applicable criteria for continued listing on Nasdaq was granted.  On May 2, 2017, we were notified by Nasdaq that we had evidenced full compliance with all criteria for continued listing on the Nasdaq Stock Market and the matter has now been closed.. Despite this, there is no guarantee that we will be able to comply with the applicable continued listing requirements in the future. In the event that our Common Stock is delisted from Nasdaq and is not eligible for quotation or listing on another market or exchange, trading of our Common Stock could be conducted only in the over-the-counter market or on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities such as the Pink Sheets or the OTC Bulletin Board. In such event, it could become more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate price quotations for, our Common Stock, and there would likely also be a reduction in our coverage by securities analysts and the news media, which could cause the price of our Common Stock to decline further. Also, it may be difficult for us to raise additional capital if we are not listed on a major exchange. In addition, following delisting, unless our shares of Common Stock were immediately thereafter trading on the OTC Bulletin Board or the OTCQB or OTCQX market places of the OTC Markets, we would no longer be able to sell shares to Aspire Capital under the Purchase Agreement.. We may issue additional shares of our capital stock that could dilute the value of your shares of common stock.. 30. Table of Contents. We are authorized to issue 40,000,000 shares of our capital stock, consisting of 30,000,000 shares of our common stock and 10,000,000 shares of our preferred stock. We currently have an effective shelf registration statement on Form S-3 filed with the SEC under which we may offer from time to time any combination of debt securities, common and preferred stock and warrants.. We may finance our cash needs through a combination of private and public equity financings, debt financings, collaborations, strategic alliances and licensing arrangements. In light of our future capital needs, we may also issue additional shares of common stock at or below current market prices or issue convertible securities. We may also issue shares of common stock or preferred stock in connection with strategic transactions. These issuances would dilute the book value of existing stockholders common stock and could depress the value of our common stock.. We currently have a limited number of unissued shares of common stock authorized for issuance pursuant to our certificate of incorporation which will limit our ability to issue shares in a financing transaction, as compensation to our officers, directors, employees or consultants or as consideration in a strategic transaction.. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 30.0 million shares of common stock. As of the February 26, 2018, there were 16.3 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding with only 6.0 million shares available for future issuance. Unless and until we receive stockholder approval to increase the number of shares of common stock that are authorized for issuance (or take another corporate action to increase the number of shares that may be issued under the certificate of incorporation), we will be limited in our ability to issue shares of common stock in a financing transaction, as compensation to our officers, directors, employees or consultants or as consideration in a strategic transaction. Such limitation will adversely impact our business.. We are vulnerable to volatile stock market conditions.. The market prices for securities of biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including ours, have been highly volatile. The market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In addition, future announcements, such as the results of testing and clinical trials, the status of our relationships with third-party collaborators, technological innovations or new therapeutic products, governmental regulation, developments in patent or other proprietary rights, litigation or public concern as to the safety of products developed by us or others and general market conditions concerning us, our competitors or other biopharmaceutical companies, may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock. In the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have been more likely to initiate securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management.. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future.. Although our stockholders may in the future receive dividends if and when declared by our board of directors, we do not intend to declare dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Therefore, you should not purchase our common stock if you need immediate or future income by way of dividends from your investment."
