[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission are risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to materially differ from the results contemplated by the forward - looking statements contained in this report and in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations. You should carefully consider the following factors in addition to other information contained in this report on Form 10 - K before purchasing any shares of our common stock.. If there is deterioration in economic conditions in a particular region or market, our business and operating results could be materially adversely impacted.  Due to our strong balance sheet, diverse product offerings, various end - markets served, and our broad geographic presence, we believe we are well positioned to withstand slowness in any one particular region or market.  However, economic uncertainties affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways, making it difficult to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. A tightening of credit in financial markets or other factors may lead consumers and businesses to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders with us. In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers, customers or distributors could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults, inventory or supply challenges and pricing pressures. An interruption in supply may also impact our ability to meet customer demands. Consumer demand for our customers' products and shifting consumer preferences are unpredictable and could have a negative impact on our customers and our customers' demand for our products.. We face strong global competition and our market share could decline.  All of the markets in which we operate are highly competitive and we continue to experience price competition in all product lines and segments. Competitors include privately and publicly held entities. Our competitors mainly range from regional to international companies. If we are unable to compete successfully, our market share may decline, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Geopolitical conditions, including direct or indirect acts of war or terrorism, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results.  Our operations could be disrupted by geopolitical conditions such as international boycotts and sanctions, acts of war, terrorist activity or other similar events. Such events could make it difficult or impossible to manufacture or deliver products to our customers, receive production materials from our suppliers, or perform critical functions, which could adversely affect our business globally or in certain regions. While we maintain similar manufacturing capacities at different locations and coordinate multi - source supplier programs on many of our materials which would better enable us to respond to these types of events, we cannot be sure that our plans will fully protect us from all such disruptions. In addition, our customers may export their finished products using our dispensing devices that were sold in other regions and an adverse geopolitical event may impact the sales of our customers' products and thus indirectly negatively impact the demand for our dispensing solutions.. We have foreign currency translation and transaction risks that may materially adversely affect our operating results.  A majority of our operations are located outside of the United States. Because of this, movements in exchange rates may have an impact on the translation of the financial statements of our foreign entities. Our primary foreign exchange exposure is to the Euro, but we have foreign exchange exposure to the Chinese Yuan, Brazilian Real, Mexican Peso, Swiss Franc, and other Asian, European and South American currencies. A weakening U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies has an additive translation effect on our financial statements. Conversely, a strengthening U.S. dollar has a dilutive translation effect. In some cases, we sell products denominated in a currency different from the currency in which the related costs are incurred. We manage our exposures to foreign exchange principally with forward exchange contracts to economically hedge certain transactions and firm purchase and sales commitments denominated in foreign currencies. The volatility of currency exchange rates may materially affect our operating results.. Government regulation on environmental matters regarding recycling or environmental sustainability policies could impact our business.  Future government regulations mandating the use or limitations of certain materials could impact our manufacturing processes or the technologies we use forcing us to invest in alternative materials or assets used in the production of our products.. Future government regulations of healthcare cost containment policies may impact our pharmaceutical sales.  Review by governments of the number of drugs and prices thereof that will be paid by their insurance systems could affect future sales to the pharmaceutical industry and thereby adversely affect prices of and demand for our pharmaceutical products.. Consolidation of customer base could impact our business.  We believe mergers and acquisitions within our customer base create opportunities for increasing sales due to the breadth of our product line, our international presence and our long - term relationships with certain customers. However, consolidation of our customers could lead to pricing pressures, concentration of credit risk and fewer opportunities to introduce new products to the market.. 8/ATR  \t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t\t\t2017 Form 10-K. Table of Contents. If our expansion initiatives are unsuccessful, our operating results and reputation may suffer.  We are expanding our operations in a number of markets, including facilities expansions in North America, Europe and Asia. Expansion of our operations require a significant amount of time and attention from our senior management and/or capital investment. These activities present considerable challenges and risks, including the general economic and political conditions in the markets that we enter, attracting, training and retaining qualified and talented employees, infrastructure disruptions, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, the imposition of restrictions by governmental authorities, compliance with current, new and changing governmental laws and regulations and the cost of such compliance activities. If any of our expansion efforts are unsuccessful, our operating results and reputation may suffer.. The success or failure of our customers' products, particularly in the pharmaceutical market, may materially affect our operating results and financial condition.  In the pharmaceutical market, the proprietary nature of our customers' products and the success or failure of their products in the market using our dispensing systems may have a material impact on our operating results and financial condition. We may potentially work for years on modifying our dispensing device to work in conjunction with a customer's drug formulation. If the customer's pharmaceutical product is not approved by regulatory bodies or it is not successful on the market, the associated costs may not be recovered.. Higher raw material costs and other inputs and an inability to increase our selling prices may materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.  The cost of raw materials and other inputs (particularly plastic resin, rubber, metal, anodization costs and transportation and energy costs) are volatile and susceptible to rapid and substantial changes due to factors beyond our control, such as changing economic conditions, currency fluctuations, weather conditions, political unrest and instability in energy - producing nations, and supply and demand pressures. Raw material costs may increase in the coming years and, although we have generally been able to increase selling prices to cover increased costs, future market conditions may prevent us from passing these increased costs on to our customers through timely price increases. In addition, we may not be able to improve productivity or realize savings from our cost reduction programs sufficiently enough to offset the impact of increased raw material costs. As a result, higher raw material costs could result in declining margins and operating results.. In difficult market conditions, our fixed costs structure combined with potentially lower revenues may negatively impact our results.  Our business is characterized by relatively high fixed costs and, notwithstanding our utilization of third - party manufacturing capacity, most of our production requirements are met by our own manufacturing facilities. In difficult environments, we are generally faced with a decline in the utilization rates of our manufacturing facilities due to decreases in product demand. During such periods, our plants do not operate at full capacity and the costs associated with this excess capacity are charged directly to cost of sales. Difficult market conditions in the future may adversely affect our utilization rates and consequently our future gross margins, and this, in turn, could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If our unionized employees were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, our business, operating results and financial position could be materially adversely affected.  The majority of our European and Latin American employees are covered by collective bargaining arrangements made either at the local or national level in their respective countries and approximately 140 of our North American employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Although we believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory, no assurance can be given that this will continue. If disputes with our unions arise, or if our unionized workers engage in a strike or other work stoppage, we could incur higher labor costs or experience a significant disruption of operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial position.. Single sourced materials and manufacturing sites could adversely impact our ability to deliver product.  The Company sources certain materials, especially some resins and rubber components for our pharmaceutical segment, from a single source. Any disruption in the supply of these materials could adversely impact our ability to deliver product to our customers. Similarly, we have certain components and / or products that are manufactured at a single location or from a single machine or mold. Any disruption to the manufacturing process could also adversely impact our ability to deliver product to our customers.. If we were to incur a significant product liability claim above our current insurance coverage, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The failure of our devices to operate as intended may result in a product liability claim against us. We believe we maintain adequate levels of product liability insurance coverage. A product liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage or not covered by existing insurance may materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. 9/ATR  \t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t\t  \t\t\t\t\t\t2017 Form 10-K. Table of Contents. Increased cybersecurity threats could pose a risk to our operations.  Increased global information security threats and more sophisticated, targeted computer crime pose a risk to the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data, operations and infrastructure. We continue to assess potential threats and make investments seeking to reduce the risk of these threats by employing a number of security measures, including employee training, comprehensive monitoring of our networks and systems, and maintenance of backup and protective systems. We also periodically test our systems for vulnerabilities and have on occasion used a third party to conduct such tests. To date, we have seen no material impact on our business or operations from these threats; however, we cannot guarantee that our security efforts will prevent unauthorized access or loss of functionality to our or our third-party providers' systems. Even with these mitigations, our information systems remain potentially vulnerable to sophisticated cybersecurity threats. Depending on their nature and scope, such threats could potentially lead to the compromise of confidential information, improper use of our systems and networks, manipulation and destruction of data, production downtimes and operational disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our reputation, competitiveness and results of operations.. We have approximately $443.9 million in recorded goodwill at December 31, 2017, and changes in future business conditions could cause this asset to become impaired, requiring write - downs that would reduce our operating income.  We evaluate the recoverability of goodwill amounts annually, or more frequently when evidence of potential impairment exists. The impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. A decrease in expected reporting unit cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill and, as a result, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. See \"Critical Accounting Estimates\" in Part II, Item 7 for additional information.. We are subject to tax regulations in the many jurisdictions in which we operate, and changes in tax regulations could materially impact our results.  Future changes in tax laws or in the interpretation of tax laws in jurisdictions where we have significant operations could materially impact our provision for income taxes, the amount of taxes payable and our deferred tax asset and liability balances.  We recorded a provisional tax expense of $24.7 million in 2017 related to the tax law changes enacted in the U.S. This amount could materially change as we continue to evaluate the law and its impacts on our business and as additional regulatory guidance is issued.. We are currently implementing a business transformation plan, with the main objective to return our Beauty + Home segment to historical growth and profit margins.  Certain elements of this transformation plan can be disruptive to our business and our associates if we do not manage the change properly.  Furthermore, the transformation plan may take longer to complete than currently expected, may be more costly to complete than currently expected and may not be successful in returning Beauty + Home to historical growth and profit margins.  Any such effects could materially adversely impact our business.. Ownership by Certain Significant Stockholders.  Currently, Aptar has four institutional stockholders who each own between 6% and 11% of our outstanding common stock. None of these stockholders have direct representation on our Board of Directors.  If one of these stockholders decides to sell significant volumes of our stock, this could put downward pressure on the price of the stock."
