[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. We cannot assure you that any of the events discussed in the risk factors below will not occur. These risks could have a material and adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition, or prospects. If that were to happen, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. See \"Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements\" for information relating to these forward-looking statements.. Risks Relating to our Business. We have a history of net losses and will likely incur future losses, at least during the next five years, and we may not achieve or maintain profitability.. Although we were established in 1991, we did not start to develop our current product portfolio until 1996. In the period since incorporation to September 30, 2017, we have incurred net losses of approximately $108.5 million. These losses reflect our personnel, research and development, and marketing costs. We are constructing a 250-metric-ton annual capacity production facility in Rollo Bay, and in 2017 we acquired a facility in Albany, Indiana, which is undergoing renovations to increase its annual capacity to 1,200 metric tons. Modest revenues are expected from our Panama farm during 2018, with more significant revenues expected in late 2019 once our new facilities are in full production. However, our ability to realize revenues and the timing thereof are not certain, and achieving revenues does not assure that we will become profitable.. We will need substantial additional capital in the future in order to fund our business.. We do not expect significant sales until late 2019, at the earliest, and to date we have not generated any profit and expect to incur losses for the foreseeable future and may never become profitable. Therefore, based on our current business plan, we anticipate a need to raise further funds. Any issuance of shares of our common stock could have an effect of depressing the market price of shares of our common stock through dilution of earnings per share or otherwise.. The amount and timing of the expenditures needed to achieve our development and commercialization programs will depend on numerous factors, some of which are outside our control. Changes in our plans could result in the need for additional funds. The primary factor impacting the amount and timing of any additional expenditure is the timing of the stocking of our two new production facilities in Rollo Bay and Indiana, which are dependent upon the completion of construction and renovation activities at the sites and the approval from the FDA to operate the sites with AquAdvantage Salmon. Until these two sites become operational and reach full capacity, we will have only modest revenues from our Panama site to cover net losses, which were $9.3 million and $8.5 million in 2017 and 2016, respectively.. 11. Following the completion of the first harvests from our two new production facilities, we plan to evaluate additional commercialization alternatives for our product through the channel we determine to be most advantageous to the Company. Such efforts may involve producing AquAdvantage Salmon eggs for commercial production, licensing the technology to salmon growers, and/or continuing to grow out the salmon in our own land-based facilities. If we elect to grow out the fish ourselves, we would need to invest in the construction or purchase of additional land-based recirculating aquaculture system facilities. These facilities have estimated construction costs of $17 million for each 1,000 metric tons of output.. There can be no assurance that additional funds will be available on a timely basis, on favorable terms, or at all, or that such funds, if raised, would be sufficient to enable us to continue to implement our business strategy.. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership interests of holders of our common stock will be diluted, and the terms of these securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures, or declaring dividends. If we raise additional funds through government or other third-party funding; marketing and distribution arrangements; or other collaborations, strategic alliances, or licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies, future revenue streams, research programs, or product candidates or to grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us.. Our ability to generate revenue to support our operations depends on obtaining additional regulatory approvals for AquAdvantage Salmon, the receipt of which is uncertain, and the maintenance of existing approvals.. As a genetically modified animal for human consumption, AquAdvantage Salmon required approval from the FDA in the United States and the Ministers of Health and Environment in Canada before it could be produced, sold, or consumed in those countries. Our FDA approval covers the production of our eggs in our hatchery in Canada and the grow-out of our eggs in our facility in Panama. FDA approvals will be needed for each additional facility we plan to bring on line. Additionally, we will require local regulatory approvals in other countries in which we hope to operate. There is no guarantee that we will receive or be able to maintain regulatory approvals from the FDA or other regulatory bodies or that there will not be a significant delay before approval. There is also no guarantee that any approvals granted will not be subject to onerous obligations in relation to matters such as production or labeling, or that any regulator will not require additional data prior to approval, which may be costly and time-consuming to acquire.. We will be required to continue to comply with FDA and foreign regulations.. Even with the approval of the NADA and other regulatory applications for AquAdvantage Salmon, we must continue to comply with FDA and other regulatory requirements not only for manufacturing, but also for labeling, advertising, record keeping, and reporting to the FDA and other regulators of adverse events and other information. Failure to comply with these requirements could subject us to administrative or judicial enforcement actions, including but not limited to product seizures, injunctions, civil penalties, criminal prosecution, refusals to approve new products, or withdrawal of existing approvals, as well as increased product liability exposure, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Ethical, legal, and social concerns about genetically modified organisms could limit or prevent the use of our products and limit our revenues.. Our technologies involve the use of genetically modified organisms. Public perception about the safety and environmental hazards of, and ethical concerns over, genetically engineered products could influence public acceptance of our technologies and products. Activist groups opposing genetic modifications of organisms have in the past pressured a number of retail food outlets and grocery chains to publicly state that they will not carry genetically modified Atlantic salmon. If we are not able to overcome the ethical, legal, and social concerns relating to genetic engineering, products using our technologies may not be accepted in the marketplace, and demand for our products could fall short of what we expect. These concerns could also result in increased expenses, regulatory scrutiny, delays, or other impediments to implementation of our business plan.. The subject of genetically modified organisms has received negative publicity, which has aroused public debate. This adverse publicity could lead to greater regulation and trade restrictions on imports of genetically altered products. Further, there is a concern that products produced using our technologies could be perceived to cause adverse events, which could also lead to negative publicity.. We may have limited success in gaining consumer acceptance of our products.. There is an active and vocal group of opponents to genetically modified organisms who wish to ban or restrict the technology and who, at a minimum, hope to sway consumer perceptions and acceptance of this technology. Their efforts include regulatory legal challenges and labeling campaigns for genetically modified products, as well as application of pressure to consumer retail outlets seeking a commitment not to carry genetically modified Atlantic salmon. Consumer acceptance could also be adversely affected if AquAdvantage Salmon were found, or believed, to grow to a larger final size than traditional Atlantic salmon. We may not be able to overcome the negative consumer perceptions that these organizations have instilled against our products.. 12. We or regulatory agencies approving of our products may be sued by non-governmental organizations and others who are opposed to the development or commercialization of genetically modified organisms.. There are many organizations in the United States and elsewhere that are fundamentally opposed to the development of genetically modified organisms. These groups have a history of bringing legal action against companies attempting to bring new biotechnology products to market. On December 23, 2013, an application was filed by two NGOs with the Canadian Federal Court seeking judicial review to declare invalid the decision by the Canadian Minister of the Environment to publish in the Canadian Gazette a Significant New Activity Notice (\"SNAN\") with respect to AquAdvantage Salmon. Though the Canadian Federal Court dismissed this challenge, the petitioners filed an appeal of the ruling, which was subsequently dismissed by the Canadian Federal Court of Appeal on October 21, 2016.. In the United States, a coalition of NGOs filed a complaint on March 30, 2016, against the FDA, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, and related individuals for their roles in the approval of AquAdvantage Salmon, claiming that the FDA had no statutory authority to regulate genetically modified animals, and, if it did, that the agency failed to analyze and implement measures to mitigate ecological, environmental, and socioeconomic risks that could impact wild salmon and the environment, including the risk that AquAdvantage Salmon could escape and threaten endangered wild salmon stocks. Among other things, the claimants are seeking a judgment that the FDA decision to approve AquAdvantage Salmon is not authorized by the FFDCA, that an injunction be issued requiring the FDA to withdraw its assertion of jurisdiction over animals that contain GMOs, that the FDA decision to approve AquAdvantage Salmon and its EA and FONSI determinations be declared in violation of the FFDCA, and that the decision to approve the AquAdvantage Salmon NADA be vacated.. Though we believe this legal action lacks merit, it is currently ongoing, and may take considerable time to resolve. We may be subject to future litigation brought by one or more of these organizations in their attempt to block the development or sale of our product. In addition, animal rights groups and various other organizations and individuals have attempted to stop genetic engineering activities by pressing for legislation and additional regulation in these areas. To the extent the actions of these organizations are successful, commercialization of our product may be restricted, and our business may be adversely affected. Such actions, even if unsuccessful, may distract management from its operational priorities and may cause us to incur significant costs.. We may have to label our AquAdvantage Salmon at the retail level as containing a genetically modified organism, which could negatively impact consumer acceptance.. Until the passage of the National Sea Grant College Program Reauthorization in July 2016, which contained the National Bioengineered Food Disclosure Standard, or Labeling Act, our AquAdvantage Salmon did not need to be labeled as containing a genetically modified organism, because it had been deemed to be \"substantially equivalent\" to the traditional product. However, because several states either passed or considered new laws specifying varying requirements for labeling products sold at the retail level that contain genetically modified ingredients, the United States Congress passed the Labeling Act to establish a national standard for package labeling for foods containing genetically modified ingredients. The United States Department of Agriculture has until July 2018 to implement this new law. In addition, a bill was introduced in the United States Senate in July 2017 that could, if it became law, require labeling specific to AquAdvantage Salmon, rather than applicable to all genetically modified foods. Labeling requirements could cause consumers to view the label as either a warning or as an indication that AquAdvantage Salmon is inferior to traditional Atlantic salmon, which could negatively impact consumer acceptance of our product.. The markets in which we intend to sell our products are subject to significant regulations.. In addition to our FDA approval for the sale and consumption of AquAdvantage Salmon in the United States, we will also be subject to state and local regulations and permitting requirements, which could impact or delay the commercialization and commencement of revenue generation from the sale of AquAdvantage Salmon. International sales are also subject to rules and regulations promulgated by regulatory bodies within foreign jurisdictions. There can be no assurance that foreign, state, or local regulatory bodies will approve the sale and consumption of our product in their jurisdiction.. We may incur significant costs complying with environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to significant liabilities.. Our operations are subject to a variety of federal, state, local, and international laws and regulations governing, among other matters, the use, generation, manufacture, transportation, international shipment, storage, handling, disposal of, and human exposure to our products in both the United States and overseas, including regulation by governmental regulatory agencies, such as the FDA and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in the ordinary course of our business in complying with these laws and regulations.. We may become subject to increasing regulation, changes in existing regulations, and review of existing regulatory decisions.. Regulations pertaining to genetically modified animals are still developing and could change from their present state. In addition, new legislation could require new regulatory frameworks, changes in existing regulation, or re-evaluation of prior regulatory. 13. decisions. For example, despite the FDA's final determination that AquAdvantage Salmon may be sold without being labeled as a GMO, a provision added to the 2016 Omnibus Appropriations Act requires the FDA to issue final guidance for such labeling. The FDA is therefore obligated to maintain an Import Alert prohibiting import of AquAdvantage Salmon until such guidance is finalized or the provision is no longer effective. Similarly, in July 2017, a bill was introduced in the United States Senate that could, if it became law, require labeling unique to, as well as re-examination of the environmental assessments used by the FDA in its 2015 approval of the NADA for AquAdvantage Salmon. Such legislatively imposed review of a completed regulatory process could result in new restrictions on, or delays in, commercialization of our product in the United States. We could be subject to increasing or more onerous regulatory hurdles as we attempt to commercialize our product, which could require us to incur significant additional capital and operating expenditures and other costs in complying with these laws and regulations. Our regulatory burdens could also increase if AquAdvantage Salmon are found, or believed, to grow to a larger final size than traditional Atlantic salmon.. Atlantic salmon farming is restricted in certain states.. Concerns regarding the possible environmental impact from AquAdvantage Salmon have led Washington and California to impose legislative and regulatory restrictions or bans on its farming. In addition, some states, such as Alaska, have enacted restrictions on Atlantic salmon farming generally. While we currently believe that many states will offer excellent potential sites for AquAdvantage Salmon production systems, if additional states adopt similar restrictions, or otherwise prohibit the rearing of AquAdvantage Salmon in those states, the number of potential sites available to us for production farms in the United States could be reduced.. The loss of AquAdvantage Salmon broodstock could result in the loss of our commercial technology.. AquAdvantage Salmon, or more specifically the breeding population of live fish, or broodstock, themselves, is a product of our combined intellectual property, which includes our trade secrets related to creating and maintaining the broodstock. Destruction of AquAdvantage Salmon broodstocks by whatever means would result in the loss of the product of that commercial technology. Live animals are subject to disease that may, in some cases, prevent or cause delay in the export of fish or eggs to customers. Disease organisms may be present undetected and transferred inadvertently. In addition, our broodstock is kept at a limited number of facilities, and damage to or failure of critical systems at any one of those facilities could lead to the loss of a substantial percentage of our broodstock. Such events may cause loss of revenue, increased costs, or both. The broodstock, however, could be reinstated, in whole or in part, using our technology and stored breeding reserves.. Atlantic salmon farming is subject to disease outbreaks, which can increase the cost of production and/or reduce production harvests.. Salmon farming systems, particularly conventional, open sea-cage systems, are vulnerable to disease introduction and transmission, primarily from the marine environment or adjacent culture systems. The economic impact of disease to these production systems can be significant, as farmers must incur the cost of preventative measures, such as vaccines and antibiotics, and then, if the fish become infected, the cost of lost or reduced harvests.. Although we will produce and grow our AquAdvantage Salmon in land-based, closed containment facilities, we will still be at risk for potential disease outbreaks. We have implemented biosecurity measures in our facilities intended to prevent or mitigate disease impact, but there can be no assurance that any measures will be 100% effective.. Our ability to compete may be negatively impacted if we do not adequately protect our proprietary technologies or if we lose some of our intellectual property rights.. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property in the United States and abroad for our technologies and resultant products and potential products. We have adopted a strategy of seeking patent protection in the United States and abroad with respect to certain of the technologies used in or relating to our products; however, the patent to the technology covering AquAdvantage Salmon, which we license under a global, perpetual, royalty-free, non-exclusive license from Genesis Group, Inc., an affiliate of Memorial University of Newfoundland, and an affiliate of the Hospital for Sick Children of Toronto, expired in August 2013. We expect to protect our proprietary technology in regards to AquAdvantage Salmon through a combination of in-house know-how and the deterrence of the regulatory process that would need to be completed for a competing product to be commercialized, which we believe would be cost-prohibitive to our competitors. There can be no guarantee that this strategy will be successful.. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technologies, particularly in cases when we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect, and we may not be able to adequately protect our trade secrets or other proprietary or licensed information. While we require our employees, academic collaborators, consultants, and other contractors to enter into confidentiality agreements with us, if we cannot maintain the confidentiality of our proprietary and licensed technologies and other confidential information, our ability and that of our licensor to receive patent protection, and our ability to protect valuable information owned or licensed by us may be imperiled.. 14. Enforcing our intellectual property rights may be difficult and unpredictable.. Enforcing our intellectual property rights can be expensive and time consuming, and the outcome of such efforts can be unpredictable. If we were to initiate legal proceedings against a third party to enforce a patent covering one of our technologies, the defendant could counterclaim that our patent is invalid and/or unenforceable or assert that the patent does not cover its manufacturing processes, manufacturing components, or products. Furthermore, in patent litigation in the United States, defendant counterclaims alleging both invalidity and unenforceability are commonplace. Although we may believe that we have conducted our patent prosecution in accordance with the duty of candor and in good faith, the outcome following legal assertions of invalidity and unenforceability during patent litigation is unpredictable. With respect to the validity of our patent rights, we cannot be certain, for example, that there is no invalidating prior art, of which we and the patent examiner were unaware during prosecution. If a defendant were to prevail on a legal assertion of invalidity and/or unenforceability, we would not be able to exclude others from practicing the inventions claimed therein. Such a loss of patent protection could have a material adverse impact on our business. Even if our patent rights are found to be valid and enforceable, patent claims that survive litigation may not cover commercially valuable products or prevent competitors from importing or marketing products similar to our own, or using manufacturing processes or manufacturing components similar to those used to produce the products using our technologies.. Although we believe that we have obtained assignments of patent rights from all inventors, if an inventor did not adequately assign their patent rights to us, a third party could obtain a license to the patent from such inventor. This could preclude us from enforcing the patent against such third party.. We may not be able to enforce our intellectual property rights throughout the world.. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in certain foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, often do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to genetic engineering. This could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents or misappropriation of our other intellectual property rights. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial costs and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business. Accordingly, our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights in such countries may be inadequate.. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information, expose us to fraud or liability, or interrupt our operations, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.. In the ordinary course of our business, we use our servers and networks to store sensitive data, including our proprietary business and financial information; general business information regarding our customers, suppliers, and business partners; and personally identifiable information of our employees. The secure storage and maintenance of this information is critical to our operations. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error or malfeasance. A breach of our security could compromise our networks, and the information stored there could be accessed, manipulated, publicly disclosed, lost, or stolen. Any such access, manipulation, disclosure, or loss of information could result in errors in our records, fraudulent use of our financial information, legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, theft of our intellectual property, or damage to our reputation. In addition, our systems could be the subject of denial of service or other interference, which could disrupt our operations and commercial transactions. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, revenues, and competitive position.. Competitors and potential competitors may develop products and technologies that make ours obsolete or garner greater market share than ours.. We do not believe that we have a direct competitor for genetically modified, growth-enhanced Atlantic salmon. However, the market for Atlantic salmon is dominated by a group of large, multinational corporations with entrenched distribution channels. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on our ability to demonstrate that AquAdvantage Salmon is superior to and/or less expensive than other products available in the market.. Certain of our competitors may benefit from government support and other incentives that are not available to us. As a result, our competitors may be able to develop competing and/or superior products and compete more aggressively and sustain that competition over a longer period of time than we can. As more companies develop new intellectual property in our markets, a competitor could acquire patent or other rights that may limit our ability to successfully market our product.. If our technologies or products are stolen, misappropriated, or reverse engineered, others could use the technologies to produce competing technologies or products.. Third parties, including our collaborators, contractors, and others involved in our business often have access to our technologies. If our technologies or products were stolen, misappropriated, or reverse engineered, they could be used by other parties that may be able to reproduce our technologies or products using our technologies for their own commercial gain. If this were to occur, it would be difficult for us to challenge this type of use, especially in countries with limited intellectual property protection.. 15. If we lose key personnel, including key management personnel, or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, it could delay our commercialization plans or harm our research and development efforts, and we may be unable to sell or develop our own products.. Our success depends substantially on the efforts and abilities or our officers and other key employees. The loss of any key members of our management, or the failure to attract or retain other key employees who possess the requisite expertise for the conduct of our business, could prevent us from developing and commercializing our products and executing on our business strategy. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified employees in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among biotechnology and other technology-based businesses, or due to the unavailability of personnel with the particular qualifications or experience necessary for our business. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience staffing constraints that could adversely affect our ability to meet the demands of our customers in a timely fashion or to support our internal research and development programs. In particular, our product development programs are dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled scientists. Competition for experienced scientists and other technical personnel from numerous companies and academic and other research institutions may limit our ability to attract and retain such personnel on acceptable terms.. We may encounter difficulties managing our growth, which could adversely affect our business.. We could face a period of rapid growth following commercial availability of our products, which may place significant pressure on our management, sales, operational, and financial resources. The execution of our business plan and our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to manage current and planned expansion and on our ability to continue to implement and improve our operational management. Any failure to manage the planned growth may have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition, trading performance, and prospects.. We may pursue strategic acquisitions and investments that could have an adverse impact on our business if they are unsuccessful.. If appropriate opportunities become available, we may acquire businesses, assets, technologies, or products to enhance our business in the future. In connection with any future acquisitions, we could:. •issue additional equity securities, which would dilute our current shareholders;. •incur substantial debt to fund the acquisitions; or. •assume significant liabilities.. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including:. •difficulties integrating the purchased operations, technologies, or products;. •unanticipated costs and other liabilities;. •diversion of management's attention from our core business;. •adverse effects on existing business relationships with current and/or prospective customers and/or suppliers;. •risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and. •potential loss of key employees.. We do not have extensive experience in managing the integration process, and we may not be able to successfully integrate any businesses, assets, products, technologies, or personnel that we might acquire in the future without a significant expenditure of operating, financial, and management resources. The integration process could divert management time from focusing on operating our business, result in a decline in employee morale, or cause retention issues to arise from changes in compensation, reporting relationships, future prospects, or the direction of the business. Acquisitions also may require us to record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges, incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets, and incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses, all of which could harm our operating results and financial condition. In addition, we may acquire companies that have insufficient internal financial controls, which could impair our ability to integrate the acquired company and adversely impact our financial reporting. If we fail in our integration efforts with respect to any of our acquisitions and are unable to efficiently operate as a combined organization, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected.. We have entered into agreements that require us to pay a significant portion of our future revenue to third parties.. In 2009, we received a grant from the Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency to fund a research program. A total of CDN$2.9 million was made available under the grant, and we received the entire amount through December 31, 2015. Once we begin to generate revenue from any of the products from the research program, we must commence repayment of the outstanding loan in the. 16. form of a 10% royalty. These payments could negatively impact our ability to support our operations. Revenues from sales of our AquAdvantage Salmon are not subject to the royalty.. In February 2013, we entered into the ECC with Intrexon, pursuant to which we are permitted to use Intrexon's UltraVector and other technology platforms to develop and commercialize additional genetically modified traits in finfish for human consumption. The ECC grants us a worldwide license to use certain patents and other intellectual property of Intrexon in connection with the research, development, use, importing, manufacture, sale, and offer for sale of products involving DNA administered to finfish for human consumption. We agreed under the ECC to pay Intrexon, on a quarterly basis, 16.66% of the gross profits calculated for each developed product. We also agreed to pay Intrexon 50% of the quarterly revenue obtained from a sublicensee in the event of a sublicensing arrangement. In addition, we agreed to reimburse Intrexon for the costs of certain services provided by Intrexon. The ECC remains in effect. These payments could negatively impact our ability to support our operations.. Our financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected by international business risks, including exchange rate fluctuation.. The majority of our employees, including our research personnel, are currently located outside of the United States. As a consequence of the international nature of our business, we are exposed to risks associated with international operations. For example, we are based in the United States and present our financial statements in U.S. dollars, and the majority of our cash resources are held in U.S. dollars or in Canadian dollars. Some of our future expenses and revenues are expected to be denominated in currencies other than in U.S. dollars. Other risks include possible governmental restrictions of the movement of funds, limitation of contractual rights, or expropriation of assets without fair compensation. Therefore, movements in exchange rates to translate to foreign currencies and other international operational risks may have a negative impact on our reported results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.. We have received government research grants and loans in the past, but such grants and loans may not be available in the future.. We have in the past received government assistance in the form of research grants and loans to partially fund various research projects, including projects involving our AquAdvantage Salmon. There can be no assurance that additional government assistance will be available in the future to help offset the cost of our research activities, in which case we would need to fund our research projects entirely from our available cash resources, which may be limited. This could delay progress on future product development and introduction. In addition, we may be subject to audit by the government agencies that provided research assistance to ensure that the funds were used in accordance with the terms of the grant or loan. Any audit of the use of these funds would require the expenditure of funds and result in the diversion of management's attention.. Our success will depend in part on our ongoing relationship with Intrexon.. We are party to agreements with Intrexon, including the ECC. Our success will depend, in part, on the maintenance of our ongoing relationship with Intrexon.. Certain members of management and our Board of Directors may hold stock in both Intrexon and AquaBounty, and as a result may face actual or potential conflicts of interest.. The management and directors of each of Intrexon and AquaBounty may own both Intrexon common stock and AquaBounty common stock. This ownership overlap could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when AquaBounty management and directors and Intrexon management and directors face decisions that could have different implications for AquaBounty and Intrexon. For example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between AquaBounty and Intrexon regarding the terms of their relationship. Potential conflicts of interest may also arise out of additional commercial arrangements that AquaBounty or Intrexon may enter into in the future.. Tax reform may significantly affect the Company and its stockholders.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"), which significantly reforms the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"). The Tax Act, among other things, includes changes to U.S. federal tax rates, imposes significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest and net operating loss carryforwards, allows for the expensing of capital expenditures, and puts into effect the migration from a \"worldwide\" system of taxation to a territorial system. We do not expect tax reform to have a material impact to our projection of minimal cash taxes or to our net operating losses. Our net deferred tax assets and liabilities have been revalued at the newly enacted U.S. corporate rate as of December 31, 2017. We continue to examine the impact this tax reform legislation may have on our business. The impact of this tax reform on holders of our common stock is uncertain and could be adverse. This Annual Report on Form 10-K does not discuss any such tax legislation or the manner in which it might affect purchasers of our common stock. We urge our stockholders to consult with their legal and tax advisors with respect to such legislation and the potential tax consequences of investing in our common stock.. 17. Our ability to use net operating losses and other tax attributes to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations.. In general, under Sections 382 and 383 of the Code, a corporation that undergoes an \"ownership change\" is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating losses (\"NOLs\"), tax credits, or other tax attributes to offset future taxable income or taxes. For these purposes, an ownership change generally occurs where the aggregate stock ownership of one or more stockholders or groups of stockholders who owns at least 5% of a corporation's stock increases its ownership by more than 50 percentage points over its lowest ownership percentage within a specified testing period. In addition to limitations imposed by the Tax Act, a portion of our NOLs are subject to substantial limitations arising from previous ownership changes, and, if we undergo an ownership change, our ability to utilize NOLs could be further limited by Sections 382 and 383 of the Code. In addition, future changes in our stock ownership, many of which are outside of our control, could result in an ownership change under Sections 382 and 383 of the Code. Our NOLs may also be impaired under state law. Accordingly, we may not be able to utilize a material portion of our NOLs. Furthermore, our ability to utilize our NOLs is conditioned upon our attaining profitability and generating U.S. federal and state taxable income.. Risks Relating to our Common Stock. Intrexon's significant share ownership position allows it to influence corporate matters.. Based solely on a Schedule 13D/A filed on January 19, 2018, by Randal J. Kirk, Intrexon, and Third Security, LLC (\"Third Security\"), Intrexon currently owns 6,700,738 shares of our common stock and has the right to acquire 1,538,461 additional shares upon exercise of warrants purchased by Intrexon on January 17, 2018, which are immediately exercisable. Intrexon therefore currently holds approximately 53% of our outstanding common stock and would own approximately 58% of our common stock upon exercise of the warrants. In addition, entities controlled by Randal J. Kirk, including Third Security and its affiliates other than Intrexon currently hold 837,544 shares of our common stock, or approximately 6% of our shares following exercise of the Intrexon warrants. Based on these holdings, Randal J. Kirk, Intrexon's Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and controlling shareholder, and Third Security's Chief Executive Officer and Senior Managing Director, has reported control over approximately 64% of our outstanding stock following exercise of the Intrexon warrants. Given this, and our grant to Intrexon of certain rights to nominate members of our Board of Directors that are intended to ensure that Intrexon-nominated Board members represent a percentage of our Board that is proportionate to Intrexon's percentage ownership of our common stock, Intrexon will be able to significantly influence who serves on our Board of Directors and the outcome of matters required to be submitted to our shareholders for approval, including decisions relating to the outcome of any proposed merger or consolidation of our company. Intrexon's interests may not be consistent with those of our other shareholders. Furthermore, Intrexon's significant interest in us may discourage third parties from seeking to acquire control of us, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. An active trading market for our common stock may not develop or be sustained.. Although our common stock is currently traded on the Nasdaq Capital Market, an active trading market for our common stock may never develop or, if developed, be maintained. If an active market for our common stock does not develop or is not maintained, it may be difficult for shareholders to sell shares of our common stock. An inactive trading market may impair our ability to raise capital to continue to fund operations by selling shares and may impair our ability to acquire other companies or technologies by using our shares as consideration.. The price of our shares of common stock is likely to be volatile.. The share price of publicly traded emerging companies can be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. The prices at which our common stock are quoted and the prices which investors may realize will be influenced by a large number of factors, some specific to our company and operations and some that may affect the quoted biotechnology sector, or quoted companies generally. These factors could include variations in our operating results, publicity regarding the process of obtaining regulatory approval to commercialize our products, divergence in financial results from analysts' expectations, changes in earnings estimates by stock market analysts, overall market or sector sentiment, legislative changes in our sector, the performance of our research and development programs, large purchases or sales of our common stock, currency fluctuations, legislative changes in the genetic engineering environment, and general economic conditions. Certain of these events and factors are outside of our control. Stock markets have from time to time experienced severe price and volume fluctuations, which, if recurring, could adversely affect the market prices for our commons stock.. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future, and, accordingly, shareholders must rely on stock appreciation for any return on their investment.. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future and intend to retain all of our future earnings, if any, to finance the operations, development, and growth of our business. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient surplus under Delaware law to be able to pay any dividends at any time in the future. As a result, absent payment of dividends, only appreciation of the price of our common stock, which may never occur, will provide a. 18. return to shareholders. You may also have to sell some or all of your shares of our common stock in order to generate cash flow from your investment in us.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports, or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research or reports about our business, our share price and trading volume could decline.. The U.S. trading market for our shares of common stock depends, in part, on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If no securities or industry analysts commence coverage of us, the trading price for our shares of common stock may be negatively impacted. If we obtain securities or industry analyst coverage, and one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our shares of common stock, changes their opinion of our shares, or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our share price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our shares of common stock could decrease, and we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our share price and trading volume to decline.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" and we cannot be certain if the reduced reporting requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our shares of common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in Section 2(a) of the Securities Act. For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including the auditor attestation requirements in the assessment of our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, compliance with any new requirements adopted by the PCAOB requiring mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditors' report in which the auditor would be required to provide additional information about the audit and the financial statements of the issuer, disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and the requirements of holding advisory \"say-on-pay\" votes on executive compensation and shareholder advisory votes on golden parachute compensation not previously approved. Under the JOBS Act, we will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of (1) December 31, 2023, which is the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the date of the first sale of our common stock pursuant to an effective registration statement filed under the Securities Act; (2) the last day of the fiscal year during which we have total annual gross revenues of $1 billion or more; (3) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt; and (4) the date on which we are deemed to be a \"large accelerated filer\" as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act. We cannot predict if investors will find our shares of common stock to be less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our shares of common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our shares of common stock, and our share price may be more volatile.. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies also can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected to avail ourselves of this exemption from new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, will not be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies.. Our shareholders may not have the same protections generally available to shareholders of other Nasdaq listed companies because we are currently a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the Nasdaq listing rules.. Because Intrexon holds a majority of the voting power for the election of our Board of Directors, we are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of Nasdaq Listing Rule 5615(c). As a controlled company, we qualify for exemptions from several of Nasdaq's corporate governance requirements, including requirements that:. • a majority of our Board of Directors consist of independent directors;. • compensation of officers be determined or recommended to our Board of Directors by a majority of its independent directors or by a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors; and. • director nominees be selected or recommended to our Board of Directors by a majority of its independent directors or by a nominating committee that is composed entirely of independent directors.. While our Board of Directors has determined that a majority of its members are independent, we are not required to have a compensation committee or a nominating committee composed entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, our shareholders may not be afforded the same protections generally as shareholders of other Nasdaq-listed companies for so long as Intrexon controls the composition of our Board of Directors and our Board of Directors determines to rely upon exemptions available to controlled companies.. 19. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud.. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and, together with adequate disclosure controls and procedures, are designed to prevent fraud. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. In addition, any testing by us conducted in connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or any subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses or that may require prospective or retroactive changes to our financial statements or identify other areas for further attention or improvement. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock.. We may issue preferred stock with terms that could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock.. While we have no specific plan to issue preferred stock, our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our shareholders, one or more series of preferred stock having such designation, relative powers, preferences (including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions), voting rights, terms of conversion or redemption, and other relative, participating, optional, or other special rights, if any, of the shares of each such series of preferred stock and any qualifications, limitations, or restrictions thereof, as our Board of Directors may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock. For example, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock.. The financial reporting obligations of being a public company in the United States are expensive and time consuming and place significant additional demands on our management.. The obligations of being a public company in the United States place additional demands on our management and require significant expenditures, which we estimate will be approximately $400 thousand annually, including costs resulting from public company reporting obligations under the Exchange Act; the rules and regulations regarding corporate governance practices, including those under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act; and the listing requirements for the Nasdaq Capital Market. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to ensure that we comply with all of these requirements. Moreover, despite reforms made possible by the JOBS Act, the reporting requirements, rules, and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly, particularly if we were no longer to qualify as an emerging growth company. Any changes that we make to comply with these obligations may not be sufficient to allow us to satisfy our obligations as a public company on a timely basis, or at all.. These rules and regulations make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. These factors also could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our Board of Directors, particularly to serve on our Audit Committee and Compensation Committee, or as executive officers.. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with the continued listing standards of the Nasdaq Capital Market.. Even though our common stock has been listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with standards necessary to maintain a listing of our common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market. Our failure to meet the continuing listing requirements may result in our common stock being delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market.. Provisions in our corporate documents and Delaware law could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of us, even if that change may be considered beneficial by some of our shareholders.. The existence of some provisions of our articles of incorporation or our bylaws or Delaware law could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of us that a shareholder may consider favorable. These provisions include:. • providing that the number of members of our board is limited to a range fixed by our bylaws;. • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by shareholders at shareholder meetings; and. • authorizing the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock, which could be issued by our Board of Directors to issue securities with voting rights and thwart a takeover attempt.. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. Section 203 prevents some shareholders holding more than 15% of our voting stock from engaging in certain business combinations unless the business combination or the transaction that resulted in the shareholder becoming an interested shareholder was approved in advance by our Board of Directors, results in the shareholder holding more than 85% of. 20. our voting stock (subject to certain restrictions), or is approved at an annual or special meeting of shareholders by the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our voting stock not held by the shareholder engaging in the transaction. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation or our bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our shareholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock and affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock."
