[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information provided in this Report, the following risk factors should be considered when evaluating the results of our operations, future prospects and an investment in shares of our common stock (\"Common Stock\").  Any of these factors could cause our actual financial results to differ materially from our historical results and could give rise to events that might have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Business. The traditional manufacturing, advanced manufacturing, and 3D printing markets in which we compete are highly competitive and some of our competitors may have superior resources.  Responding to this competition could reduce our sales and operating margins.. 7. Table of Contents. We sell most of our products in highly fragmented and competitive prototyping and production manufacturing and 3D printing markets, including those serviced by traditional and additive manufacturing suppliers.  We believe that our principal challenges of competition in these markets are:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tability to meet customer specifications and quantities within competitive time periods responsive to high customization demands from our customers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tapplication expertise and engineering capabilities using novel materials that vary widely according to our customers' requirements;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tproduct quality and brand name in different industrial manufacturing areas, which may take years to develop;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ttimeliness of delivery of raw materials to our plants and finished products to our customers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcompetitive pricing of our products at levels sufficient to attract and retain customers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tquality of our aftermarket sales and support for customers utilizing our products in widely variable physical and environmental conditions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to develop new advanced materials or related capabilities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour applied research and development capabilities that rely mainly on individual initiatives and experience of our employees; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour 3D printing services, which currently constitute only a small portion of our overall business.. In each of our major traditional manufacturing, advanced manufacturing, and 3D printing product lines, we compete with a substantial number of foreign and domestic companies, some of which have greater resources (financial or otherwise) or lower operating costs than we have.  Competitors' actions, such as price reductions or introduction of new innovative products, may have a material adverse impact on our sales and profitability.  In addition, the rapid technological changes occurring in the design and engineering industry could lead to the entry of new competitors in traditional manufacturing and 3D printing.  We cannot provide assurance that we will continue to compete successfully with our existing competitors or with new competitors.. Some of our traditional manufacturing, advanced manufacturing and 3D printing competitors are larger than us and have greater financial, technical, marketing, and other resources than we have.  These larger competitors may be in a better position to withstand any significant reduction in capital spending by customers in our markets.  They may have broader product lines and greater market focus and may not be as susceptible to downturns in a single market.  These competitors may also be able to bundle their products together to meet the needs of a particular customer and may be capable of delivering more complete solutions than we are able to provide.  To the extent large enterprises that currently do not compete directly with us choose to enter our markets by acquisition or otherwise, competition would likely intensify.. Further, some of our competitors that have greater financial resources have offered, and in the future may offer, their products at lower prices than we offer for our competing products or on more attractive financing or payment terms, which may cause us to lose sales opportunities and the resulting revenue or to reduce our prices in response to that competition.  Reductions in prices for any of our products could have a material adverse effect on our operating margins and revenue.  In addition, many of our competitors have been in operation longer than we have and, therefore, have more long-standing and established relationships with domestic and foreign customers, making it difficult for us to sell to those customers.. If any of our competitors' traditional manufacturing, advanced manufacturing, and 3D printing products or technologies were to become the industry standard, our business would be seriously harmed.  If our competitors are successful in bringing their products to market earlier than us, or if these products are more technologically capable than ours, our revenue could be materially and adversely affected.  Our competitors may decide to expand their presence in this market through mergers and acquisitions.  The consolidation of our manufacturing and 3D printing competitors could have a significant negative impact on our business.. 8. Table of Contents. If we are unable to compete in the traditional manufacturing, advanced manufacturing, and 3D printing sectors at the same level as we have in the past, in any of our markets, or are forced to reduce the prices of our products in order to continue to be competitive, our operating results, financial condition, and cash flows would be materially and adversely affected.. In order to maintain and enhance our traditional manufacturing, advanced manufacturing, and 3D printing competitive position, we intend to continue our investment in technology, marketing, customer service, and support, and distribution networks.  We may not have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments, and we may not be able to maintain our competitive position.  Our competitors may develop products that are superior to our traditional manufacturing, advanced manufacturing, and 3D printing products, develop methods of more efficiently and effectively providing products and services, or adapt more quickly than us to new technologies or evolving customer requirements.  We may not be able to compete successfully with our competitors.  If we fail to compete successfully, the failure may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We rely on a small number of customers for a large percentage of our revenues.. A relatively small number of customers have historically contributed a material percentage of our manufacturing product sales.  Our five largest customers accounted for approximately 36.9% of our fiscal year 2018 revenue.  Our metal 3D printing operations also rely on a small number of customers.  The concentration of our business with a relatively small number of customers may expose us to a material adverse effect if one or more of these large customers were to experience financial difficulty or were to cease being customer for non-financial related issues.  Through acquisitions and organic growth, we seek to diversify both our offerings and our customer base.  Assuming our continued customer diversification, we do not believe the loss of any one of our core customers would have a long-term material adverse effect on our results of operations.  However, there can be no assurance that the loss of any one or more of our core customers would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, at least in the short term.. Due in part to the unpredictability of customer orders, our business is difficult to forecast with accuracy on a quarterly basis and is subject to variability.. Our manufacturing businesses have a high degree of quarterly variability, given the production lifecycle, success of our customers' products, and specific order timing, which is reliant on purchase orders rather than long-term contracts.  Thus, depending on the product shipment dates for orders received, our revenue recognized for each quarter may experience variability and may vary significantly from our expectations.  These potential quarterly fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our stock price as well as potentially impact our compliance under our agreements with lenders or other providers of credit to the Company.. We face customer pricing pressures.. Our customers are under pressure to reduce pricing on their products amid intense competition and pressure from their own cost-conscious customers.  Weak revenue growth leads companies to reduce prices in order to boost sales, which reduces the value of those sales and further affects all participants in the supply chain.  Consequently, we also face these pricing pressures.  For example, our sales to the medical industry could be adversely affected by hospitals that are subject to smaller reimbursements, rising costs and a rapidly changing health-care system, which could result in hospitals reducing the size of orders and negotiating lower costs for supplies.  Such events could result in hospital suppliers lowering prices in order to win business with an ultimate effect on us that would result in fewer component orders and pressure to lower our prices.  Such order reductions and pricing adjustments could put pressure on our gross margins, negatively impacting the overall profitability of our businesses.  Further, we and our customers also face pricing pressure from global competition, primarily from Asia and other low-cost areas.  Our sales could be negatively impacted if customers move production of devices offshore.. Our future success depends on our ability to anticipate and to adapt to technological changes and develop, implement, and market product innovations.. Many of our traditional manufacturing, advanced manufacturing, and 3D printing markets are characterized by fast-moving advances in design and engineering that require ongoing improvements in our production capabilities and the competitive quality of our products.  The supply chains in which we operate are subject to technological change and changes in customer requirements.  We cannot provide any assurance that we will successfully develop new or modified. 9. Table of Contents. types of traditional manufacturing, advanced manufacturing, and 3D printing products or technologies that may be required by our customers in the future.  Should we not be able to maintain or enhance the competitive values of our traditional manufacturing, advanced manufacturing, and 3D printing products or develop and introduce new products or technologies successfully, or if new products or technologies fail to generate sufficient revenues to offset research and development costs, our businesses, financial condition, and operating results could be materially and adversely affected.  We may not be successful in those efforts if, among other things, our traditional manufacturing, advanced manufacturing, and 3D printing products:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tare not cost effective;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tare not brought to market in a timely manner;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tare not in accordance with evolving traditional manufacturing, advanced manufacturing and 3D printing industry standards;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfail to achieve market acceptance or meet customer requirements; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tare in advance of the needs of their markets.. We may not fully realize anticipated benefits from past or future acquisitions or equity investments, and future acquisitions may expose us to significant unanticipated liabilities that could adversely affect our business, financial conditions, and results of operations.. We anticipate that a portion of any future growth of our business might be accomplished by acquiring existing traditional manufacturing, advanced manufacturing, and 3D printing businesses, products, or ancillary technologies.  The success of any acquisition will depend upon, among other things, our ability to integrate acquired personnel, operations, products, and technologies into our organization effectively, to retain and motivate key personnel of acquired businesses and to retain their customers.  In addition, we might not be able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities or obtain any necessary financing on acceptable terms.  We might also invest time and money investigating and negotiating with a potential acquisition or investment target but not complete the transaction.. Our acquisitions could create unforeseen risks and liabilities that may adversely impact our results and operations.  These liabilities could include employment, retirement or severance-related obligations under applicable law or other benefits arrangements, legal claims, warranty or similar liabilities to customers, and claims made by vendors.  Future acquisitions could also expose us to tax liabilities and other amounts owed by the acquired companies.  The incurrence of such unforeseen or unanticipated liabilities, should they be significant, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Although we hope to realize strategic, operational, and financial benefits as a result of our past or future acquisitions and equity investments, we cannot predict whether, and to what extent, such benefits will be achieved.  There are significant challenges to integrating an acquired operation into our business, including, but not limited to:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsuccessfully managing the operations, manufacturing facilities and technology;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tintegrating the sales organizations and maintaining and increasing the customer base;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tretaining key employees, customers, suppliers, and distributors;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tintegrating management information, inventory, accounting, and research and development activities; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\taddressing operating losses related to individual facilities or product lines.. Any future acquisition could involve other risks, including the assumption of additional liabilities and expenses, issuances of debt, transaction costs, and diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, and such acquisition may be dilutive to our financial results.. 10. Table of Contents. A material disruption at any of our manufacturing facilities could adversely affect our ability to generate sales and meet customer demand.. In case of a disruption of our operations at our manufacturing facilities due to significant equipment failures, natural disasters, power outages, fires, explosions, terrorism, adverse weather conditions, labor disputes, or other reasons, our financial performance could be adversely affected as a result of our inability to meet customer demand for our products.  Interruptions in production could increase our cost of sales, harm our reputation, and adversely affect our ability to attract or retain our customers.  Our highly automated manufacturing equipment and 3D printers may take longer to repair or replace than conventional manufacturing systems.  In addition, some of our equipment may be heavily modified over time with adaptations and customization for specific customers that may make our equipment more susceptible to malfunctions that cannot be easily repaired.  In addition, our business continuity plans may not be sufficient to address disruptions attributable to all magnitudes of natural disaster risks at our geographically disparate facilities, such as hurricane risk at our Florida plant, seismic risks at our Colorado facility, and severe winter weather risks at our Colorado, Michigan, and Ohio facilities.  Any interruption in production capability could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to remedy the situation, which could negatively affect our profitability and financial condition.  We maintain property damage insurance, which we believe to be adequate to provide for reconstruction of facilities and equipment, as well as business interruption insurance to mitigate losses resulting from any production interruption or shutdown caused by an insured loss.  However, any recovery under our insurance policies may not offset the lost sales or increased costs that may be experienced during the disruption of operations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. A sustained economic downturn could adversely impact our Company.. Demand for our products and components could be adversely impacted by deterioration in general economic conditions.  Furthermore, a recession could result in reduced demand for our traditional manufacturing, advanced manufacturing, and 3D printing products, which would negatively impact revenues.  In addition, a significant slowdown in the global economy could reduce overall demand for our products.  For example, during periods of sustained economic downturn or significant supply/demand imbalances, new vehicle sales may be negatively impacted as consumers shift their purchases to used vehicles, which could result in loss of sales to our customers who supply the automobile manufacturers.  The diversified customer base and product applications of our companies may help mitigate the effects of economic fluctuations, however, many of our customers and suppliers are reliant on liquidity from global credit markets and, in some cases, require external financing to purchase products or finance operations.  Lack of liquidity or inability to access the credit markets by our customers could adversely affect our ability to collect the outstanding amounts due to us.  The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Product liability lawsuits could harm our business.. We face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims.  We sell components for medical and dental, aerospace, automotive, defense, consumer durable, and electronic device industries, any of which may be susceptible to failure that may cause physical injury or death.  We may incur significant losses due to lawsuits, including potential class actions, resulting from such adverse events.  We may also incur losses from lawsuits relating to the improper use of any of our products and components.  In addition, claims or lawsuits related to products that we sell or the unavailability of insurance for product liability claims, could result in the elimination of these products from our product line thus reducing revenues, possibly significantly.  Although we maintain production quality controls and procedures, we cannot assure that the products sold will be free from defects.  In addition, when manufacturing our products, we also use components manufactured by third parties, which may have defects.  We maintain insurance coverage for product liability claims.  The insurance policies have limits, however, and may not be sufficient to cover claims made.  In addition, this insurance may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost.  With respect to components manufactured by third-party suppliers, the contractual indemnification that we may seek from our third-party suppliers may be limited and thus insufficient to cover claims made against us.  If insurance coverage or contractual indemnification is insufficient to satisfy product liability claims made against us, the claims could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition.  Even claims without merit could harm our reputation, reduce demand for our products, cause us to incur substantial legal costs and distract the attention of our management.  The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. 11. Table of Contents. Our operations are subject to environmental, health, and safety regulations.. Our traditional manufacturing, advanced manufacturing, and 3D printing operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state, local, and European Union laws and regulations, governing environmental protection, health and safety, including the discharge of materials into the environment.  These laws and regulations may, among other things:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequire the acquisition of various permits before operations commence or to continue ongoing operations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trestrict the types, quantities, and concentrations of various substances that may be employed in manufacturing operations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trestrict the types, quantities, and concentrations of various substances that may be released into the environment or otherwise disposed of; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequire remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former and ongoing operations, such as requirements to remove contamination from real property, whether or not caused by past or ongoing operations.. The regulatory burden increases the cost of doing business and affects profitability.  Additionally, the U.S. Congress and federal and state agencies, as well as the European Union regulatory authorities, frequently revise environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, and any changes that result in more stringent and costly health and safety, pollution control, waste handling, disposal, cleanup, and remediation requirements could have a significant negative impact on our operating costs.. Some of the existing environmental, health and safety laws and regulations to which we are subject include, among others:. (i) \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tregulations by the Environmental Protection Agency (\"EPA\") and various state agencies regarding approved methods of disposal for certain hazardous and nonhazardous wastes;. (ii) \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (\"CERCLA\") and analogous state laws that may require the removal of previously disposed wastes (including wastes disposed of or released by prior owners or operators of real estate), the cleanup of property contamination (including groundwater contamination) and remedial plugging operations to prevent future contamination;. (iii) \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe Clean Air Act and comparable state and local requirements, which establish pollution control requirements with respect to air emissions from our operations;. (iv) \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe Oil Pollution Act of 1990, which contains numerous requirements relating to the prevention of, and response to, oil spills into waters of the United States;. (v) \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe Federal Water Pollution Control Act, or the Clean Water Act, and analogous state laws which impose restrictions and strict controls with respect to the discharge of pollutants, including heavy metals and other substances generated by our operations, into waters of the United States, state waters, or publicly owned treatment works;. (vi) \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, which is the principal federal statute governing the treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes, and comparable state statutes;. (vii) \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe federal Occupational Safety and Health Act and comparable state statutes, which require worker protection from raw materials, products, and wastes;. (viii) \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe federal Toxic Substances Control Act and comparable state and local statutes and regulations requiring that we organize and/or disclose information about hazardous materials stored, used, or produced in our operations; and. 12. Table of Contents. (ix) \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe Arms Export Control Act of 1976 (''AECA'') and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations promulgated thereunder that govern the export of firearm and defense products controlled by the AECA.. Our Company has incurred in the past, and expects to incur in the future, capital and other expenditures related to environmental compliance.  Although we believe our continued compliance with existing requirements will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, and results of operations, there is no assurance that the passage of more stringent laws or regulations in the future will not have a negative impact on our financial position or results of operations.. As an owner or operator of real property, or generator of waste, we could become subject to liability for environmental contamination, regardless of whether we caused such contamination.. Under various U.S. federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances, and, in some instances, international laws, relating to the protection of the environment, a current or former owner or operator of real property may be liable for the cost to remove or remediate contamination on, under, or released from such property and for any damage to natural resources resulting from such contamination.  Similarly, a generator of waste can be held responsible for contamination resulting from the treatment or disposal of such waste at any off-site location (such as a landfill), regardless of whether the generator arranged for the treatment or disposal of the waste in compliance with applicable laws.  Costs associated with liability for removal or remediation of contamination or damage to natural resources could be substantial and liability under these laws may attach without regard to whether the responsible party knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the contaminants.  In addition, the liability may be joint and several.  The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination at our properties, or properties for which we are deemed responsible, may expose us to liability for property damage or personal injury, or materially adversely affect our ability to sell our real property interests or to borrow using the real property as collateral.  We cannot be sure that we will not be subject to environmental liabilities in the future as a result of historic or current operations that have resulted or will result in contamination.  The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Any failure to maintain and protect our trademarks, trade names, and technology may affect our operations and financial performance.. The market for many of our products is, in part, dependent upon the goodwill engendered by trademarks and trade names.  The failure to protect our trademarks and trade names may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.  Litigation may be required to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others.  Any action we take to protect our intellectual property rights could be costly and could absorb significant management time and attention.  As a result of any such litigation, we could lose any proprietary rights we have.  In addition, it is possible that others will independently develop technology that will compete with our technology.  The development of new technologies by competitors that may compete with our technologies could reduce demand for our products and affect our financial performance.  The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. If suppliers that we rely on encounter production, quality, financial or other difficulties, we may experience difficulty in meeting customer demands.. We rely on unaffiliated contract manufacturers, both domestically and internationally, to produce certain of our products or key components of our products.  If we are unable to arrange for sufficient production capacity among our contract manufacturers or if our contract manufacturers encounter production, quality, financial, or other difficulties, including labor disturbances or geopolitical risks, or if alternative suppliers cannot be identified, we may encounter difficulty in meeting customer demands.  We have historically not had any material deficiencies arising from suppliers, however, any such difficulties or deficiencies arising in the future could have an adverse effect on our business, financial results, and results of operations, which could be material.  If we do not have sufficient production capacity, either through our internal facilities and/or through suppliers, to meet customer demand for our products, we may experience lost sales opportunities and customer relations problems, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. 13. Table of Contents. Our business depends on effective information management systems.. We rely on our enterprise resource planning systems to support such critical business operations as processing sales orders, invoicing, inventory control, purchasing and supply chain management, human resources, and financial reporting.  If we are unable to successfully implement major systems initiatives and maintain critical information systems with adequate redundancy and backup resources as well as sufficient levels of security to protect against unauthorized access or damage to our information systems, we could encounter difficulties that could have a material adverse impact on our business, internal controls over financial reporting, or our ability to timely and accurately report our financial results.. Cyber-security incidents, including data security breaches or computer viruses, could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services, damaging our reputation or exposing us to liability.. We receive, process, store, and transmit, often electronically, the confidential data of our customers and others.  Unauthorized access to our computer systems or stored data could result in the theft or improper disclosure of confidential information, the deletion or modification of records, or could cause interruptions in our operations.  These cyber-security risks increase when we transmit information from one location to another, including transmissions over the Internet or other electronic networks.  Despite implemented security measures, our facilities, systems, and procedures, and those of our third-party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, software viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or other similar events which may disrupt our delivery of services or expose the confidential information of our customers and others.  Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure or use of confidential information of our customers or others, whether by us or a third party, could: (i) subject us to civil and criminal penalties; (ii) have a negative impact on our reputation; or (iii) expose us to liability to our customers, third parties or government authorities.  Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, material weaknesses in our internal controls.  If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud.  As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and the trading price of our stock.. Our management and our external auditors noted that we need to improve our information technology and accounting infrastructure.  The auditors identified these material weaknesses as matters that, in the auditors' judgment, could adversely affect our ability to record, process, summarize, and report financial data consistent with the assertions of management in the financial statements.  In fiscal 2019, we will continue to devote significant resources to remediate and improve our internal controls.  We cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future.  Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our brand and operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations.  Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud.  If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our brand and operating results could be harmed.  Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock.. If our products, including material purchased from our suppliers, experience quality or performance issues, our business may suffer.. Our business depends on consistently delivering high-quality products.  To this end, we and our customers periodically test our products for quality.  Nevertheless, many of our products are highly complex and our testing procedures are limited to evaluating likely and foreseeable failure scenarios.  Our tests may fail to detect possible failures and our products may fail to perform as expected.  Performance issues could result from faulty design or problems in manufacturing.  We have experienced such performance failures in the past and remain exposed to performance failures in the future.  In some cases, recall of some or all affected products, product redesigns, or additional capital expenditures may be required to correct a defect.  In some cases, we indemnify our customers against damages or losses that might arise from certain claims relating to our products.  Future claims may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.  Any significant or systemic product failure could also result in lost future sales of the affected product and other products, as well as reputational damage.. 14. Table of Contents. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in international markets.. Certain of our products are subject to export controls and may be exported only with the required export license or through an export license exception.  If we were to fail to comply with export licensing, customs regulations, economic sanctions, and other laws, we could be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties, including fines for us and incarceration for responsible employees and managers, and the possible loss of export or import privileges.  In addition, if our distributors fail to obtain appropriate import, export or re-export licenses or permits, we may also be adversely affected through reputational harm and penalties.  Obtaining the necessary export license for a particular sale may be time-consuming and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities.  Furthermore, export control laws and economic sanctions prohibit the shipment of certain products to embargoed or sanctioned countries, governments, and persons.  While we train our employees to comply with these regulations, a violation may nonetheless occur, whether knowingly or inadvertently.  Any such shipment could have negative consequences including government investigations, penalties, fines, civil and criminal sanctions, and reputational harm.  Any change in export or import regulations, economic sanctions or related legislation, shift in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, governments, persons, or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to existing or potential customers with international operations.  Any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Difficulties may be encountered in the realignment of manufacturing capacity and capabilities among our global manufacturing facilities that could adversely affect our ability to meet customer demands for our products.. We may realign manufacturing capacity among our global facilities in order to reduce costs by improving manufacturing efficiency and to strengthen our long-term competitive position.  The implementation of these initiatives may include significant shifts of production capacity among facilities.  There are significant risks inherent in the implementation of these initiatives, including, but not limited to, failing to ensure that: there is adequate inventory on hand or production capacity to meet customer demand while capacity is being shifted among facilities; there is no decrease in product quality as a result of shifting capacity; adequate raw material and other service providers are available to meet the needs at the new production locations; equipment can be successfully removed, transported and re-installed; and adequate supervisory, production and support personnel are available to accommodate the shifted production.  In the event that manufacturing realignment initiatives are not successfully implemented, we could experience lost future sales and increased operating costs as well as customer relations problems, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We may experience significant variability in our quarterly or annual effective income tax rate.. We have a large and complex tax profile in various jurisdictions.  Variability in the mix and profitability of domestic and international activities, repatriation of earnings from our foreign subsidiary in Hungary, changes in tax laws, identification and resolution of various tax uncertainties, and the inability to use net operating losses and other carry forwards included in deferred tax assets, among other matters, may significantly impact our effective income tax rate in the future.  A significant increase in our quarterly or annual effective income tax rate could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.. There may be certain environmental and geological liabilities associated with our real estate, including our MIM manufacturing facility in Colorado.. Certain of our subsidiaries own real property at our Colorado facilities.  However, our Colorado subsidiaries do not own the mineral rights related to this property as these rights were sold prior to our ownership.  In the past, the property has been used for coal, oil, and natural gas extraction.  Oil and natural gas extraction is ongoing.  As the owner of the real estate, our Colorado subsidiaries and our Company could be strictly liable, jointly and severally, under CERCLA with the mineral rights owner and production well operators for any government mandated remediation of pollution related to the oil and gas production that could have a material adverse effect on our business, notwithstanding that our Colorado subsidiaries did not cause or contribute to the contamination.  Coal extraction ceased on the property in 1947, and the mining entities are no longer in business.  Consequently, our Colorado subsidiaries and our Company could be strictly liable for government mandated remediation of acid mine seeps or other pollution related to coal mining.  As such. 15. Table of Contents. liabilities are not insured, the payment of such remediation costs could result in an adverse effect on our business or reduced asset value and a reduction in available funds for other corporate purposes.. The Colorado Geological Survey has concluded that there may be a risk of ground subsidence due to the former mining operations on a small portion of our Colorado property where our principal facilities are located.  In the event of a subsidence event, certain of our buildings, equipment and inventory that are material to our business could be damaged or rendered unusable.  A subsidence event could also result in death, serious bodily harm or injury to our employees and other persons in the vicinity, as well as materially harm our facilities.  In addition, our Colorado subsidiaries and our Company could be liable for possible collateral damage or harm, such as possible release of any hazardous waste into the environment.  As such, liabilities are not insured, the payment of any personal injury damages and facility remediation and equipment replacement costs, as well as lost revenues attributable to interruption of our ability to conduct business, could result in a material adverse effect on our business or reduced asset value and reduction in funds available for other corporate purposes.. Political instability in international markets and interruptions in timely and cost-efficient delivery of raw materials from our overseas suppliers could have a negative effect on our Company.. Significant amounts of raw material purchases by the Company are made from overseas suppliers located in Germany, South Korea, India, United Kingdom, and Japan.  Consequently, we may encounter risks associated with these countries and regions.  Such risks include political instability, changes in legal regulations relating to trade, export and employment, as well as deterioration in underlying economic conditions.. In particular, domestic policy changes in our overseas suppliers' countries could negatively impact pricing of components purchased from manufacturers in those countries, and any increase in the prices we pay for raw materials could have a negative impact on our margins.  Products purchased from our overseas suppliers may also be dependent upon vessel shipping schedules and port availability.  In addition, certain of our overseas suppliers may currently operate near capacity, resulting in some of the raw materials we source from them being subject to limitations and there could be restrictions placed on the amount of our orders or timing of deliveries of such materials to us.  An inability to secure the raw materials used in the manufacturing of our products or to transport such raw materials in both a cost-effective and timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. Risks associated with overseas suppliers will also apply to our subsidiary AFT-Hungary, which conducts its manufacturing in Hungary.  The AFT-Hungary business is susceptible to the political and legal climate in Hungary and Europe in general.  Any instability in those areas could directly and adversely impact the business prospects of the AFT-Hungary business.. Labor unrest could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. While none of our U.S. employees are represented by unions, substantially all of our international employees are members of unions or subject to workers' councils or similar statutory arrangements.  In addition, many of our direct and indirect customers and vendors have unionized work forces.  Strikes, work stoppages, or slowdowns experienced by these customers or vendors, contract manufacturers or their other suppliers could result in slowdowns.  Organizations responsible for shipping our products may also be impacted by strikes.  Any interruption in the delivery of our products could reduce demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on us.. In general, we consider our labor relations with our employees to be in good standing.  However, in the future, we may be subject to labor unrest.  The inability to reach a new agreement could delay or disrupt our operations in the affected regions, including the acquisition of raw materials and components, the manufacture, sales, and distribution of products and the provision of services.  Occurrences of strikes, work stoppages, or lock-outs at our facilities or at the facilities of our vendors or customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. 16. Table of Contents. Our future research and development projects may not be successful.. The successful development of our future products can be affected by many factors.  Products that appear to be promising at their early phases of research and development may fail to be commercialized for various reasons, including possible failure to obtain any required regulatory approvals.  There is no assurance that any of our future research and development projects will be successful or completed within the anticipated time frame or budget or that we will receive the necessary approvals from relevant authorities for the production of these newly developed products, or that these newly developed products will achieve commercial success.  Even if such products can be successfully commercialized, they may not achieve the level of market acceptance that we expect.. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, increased costs as a result of operating as a publicly traded company, and our management devotes substantial time to compliance initiatives.. As a publicly traded company, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, additional legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not previously incur prior to becoming a publicly traded company.  In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (\"Sarbanes-Oxley Act\"), the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and the rules of the SEC and The NASDAQ Capital Market, impose various requirements on public companies.  Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives as well as investor relations.  Moreover, these rules and regulations increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly.  For example, these rules and regulations make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we have incurred additional costs to maintain such coverage.  Furthermore, if we are not able to comply with certain requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner, the market price of our common stock could decline and we could be subject to potential delisting by NASDAQ and review by such exchange, the SEC, or other regulatory authorities, which would require the expenditure by us of additional financial and management resources.  As a result, our stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the market price of our common stock.  If we fail to maintain adequate internal controls or fail to implement required new or improved controls, as such control standards are modified, supplemented, or amended from time to time, we may not be able to assert that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting.  Effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports.  If we cannot produce reliable financial reports, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and there could be a material adverse effect on our stock price.. Increases in the prices of raw materials would have an adverse effect on our profitability.. Our profitability may be materially affected by changes in the market price and availability of certain raw materials, most of which are linked to the commodity markets.  The principal raw materials we purchase may become very expensive.  Prices for copper, steel, aluminum, and certain polymers, derived from oil and natural gas, have experienced significant volatility as a result of changes in the levels of global demand, supply disruptions, and other factors.  As a result, we have adjusted our prices for certain products and may have to adjust prices again in the future.  Delays in implementing price increases or a failure to achieve market acceptance of price increases has in the past and could in the future have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.  Any significant increase in raw material prices could have a significant adverse effect on our businesses.  In particular, metal powders, especially nickel and chrome, are subject to volatile pricing on world commodity markets.  Significant increases in prices of metal powders may negatively impact our MIM companies' profitability if those increases cannot be passed along to customers.  Decisions made by major mining companies as to increasing or reducing capacities for mining and refinement of these metals could also significantly affect supplies.  In addition, pricing and availability of steel and steel scrap in the world market has a large impact on pricing of these products and, thus, impacts our metal stamping businesses.  Our margins may be adversely subject to price increases by our suppliers that we may not be able to pass along to customers because of competitive decisions by our larger competitors.  There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain reasonably priced supply sources in the future.. We are dependent on a limited number of key suppliers for certain raw materials and components.. For certain of our raw material and component purchases, including certain polymers, copper rod, copper and aluminum tapes, fine aluminum wire, steel wire, and other components, we are dependent on a limited number of key suppliers.  We have not to date experienced any serious disruptions in deliveries of raw materials from our key suppliers or been. 17. Table of Contents. unable to obtain materials from alternate suppliers at comparable prices; however, there is a risk that such disruptions could occur in the future at any time and have a material adverse effect on our business.  While we rely upon long-term relationships, we generally do not enter into long-term contracts with our key suppliers.  The timely procurement of necessary raw materials is critical to each of our operations.  In addition, some raw materials are available only from certain suppliers.  Consequently, poor supply capacity amid tight demand for these materials, as well as natural disasters or accidents, or other events that negatively impact our suppliers, could adversely affect their timely procurement.  Our key suppliers have in the past and could in the future experience production, operational or financial difficulties, or there may be global shortages of the raw materials or components we use, and our inability to find sources of supply on reasonable terms could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manufacture products in a cost-effective way.. A significant uninsured loss or a loss in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. We maintain insurance covering our normal business operations, including property and casualty protection that we believe is adequate.  We do not generally carry insurance covering wars, acts of terrorism, earthquakes, or other similar catastrophic events.  We may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage on financially reasonable terms in the future.  A significant uninsured loss or a loss in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  In addition, the financial health of our insurers may deteriorate, which could result in non-payment of our claims.. The overall global manufacturing industry, and certain of its sectors in particular, tend to be cyclical and/or seasonal.  A downturn or weakness in any particular sector, or in overall economic activity, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, and operating results.. Historically, the global manufacturing industry has been subject to cyclical fluctuations.  These fluctuations, which have affected different sectors of the market at different times and to different degrees, can result from sector-specific dynamics, such as changes in technology, government regulation, and end-consumer preference, as well as from changes in general economic conditions.  The Company derives a significant portion of its revenues from the automotive and firearm sectors of the manufacturing industry.  Both sectors have experienced significant volatility in recent years. Cyclical fluctuations in other business sectors in which we operate, could also materially adversely affect our financial condition, and results of operations.  In addition, seasonality, including the variability of shipments under large contracts, customers' seasonal orders and variations in product mix and in profitability of individual orders, affects many aspects of our business and negative seasonal factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, and results of operations for the entire year.  Our quarterly results of operations also may fluctuate based upon other factors, including production life cycles and product maturity.. Significant movements in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial results.. Our operating results and financial position could be affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange markets.  Significant fluctuations in the exchange rate may adversely impact the values of foreign currency-denominated product sales, materials costs, and production costs in factories overseas.  In addition, conversion of foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities, and the foreign currency-denominated financial statements of overseas subsidiary into U.S. dollar for disclosure may also affect our companies' assets and liabilities, as well as earnings and expenses.  In particular, our AFT operations in Hungary could be subject to liabilities and obligations that must be paid in the Hungarian currency of forints.  The value of the forint has been subject to substantial volatility against the U.S. dollar over the past several years.  If the forint increases in value against the dollar, the costs of our prospective Hungarian operations may increase and adversely affect the anticipated results expected to be derived from the Hungarian business.  In addition, increases and/or decreases in value of other currencies on which we have predicated our business model may also adversely affect our results of operations.. We may experience problems moving funds out of the countries in which the funds were earned and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable in foreign countries where the usual accounts receivable payment cycle is longer.  We may hedge certain currency transactions which might protect us against certain fluctuations in currency value, but such actions might also correspondingly increase our costs of doing business which could adversely affect our competiveness.  There can be no assurance that our risk management strategies will be effective.. 18. Table of Contents. We are dependent on the retention of key executives and certain senior operating personnel.. Our success is dependent upon the retention of our experienced executives and certain senior operating personnel.  We currently have a small team of senior executives and the loss of our key executives or certain senior operating personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Any impairment in the value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, could negatively affect our operating results and total capitalization.. Our total assets as of June 30, 2018 reflect net intangible assets of $16.3 million and goodwill of $6.4 million.  The goodwill results from our acquisitions, representing the excess of cost over the fair value of the net assets we have acquired.  If future operating performance at one or more of our business units were to fall significantly below current levels, if competing or alternative technologies emerge, or if market conditions for businesses acquired declines, we could incur, under current applicable accounting rules, a non-cash charge to operating earnings for impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets.  Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment at least annually in June of each fiscal year, or more frequently if a triggering event occurs between impairment testing dates.  Any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of goodwill or unamortized intangible assets could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and total capitalization, the effect of which could be material.. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, we reviewed the businesses segments and noted the segments fair value was in excess of the current value as of June 30, 2018.  We did not record any impairment for goodwill for the year ended June 30, 2018.. We are subject to the laws and regulations of the United States and many foreign countries.. We are subject to a variety of laws regarding our international operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and regulations issued by U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the U.S. Bureau of Industry and Security, and the regulations of various foreign governmental agencies.  We cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international sales and manufacturing operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted.  Future regulations could limit the countries in which we manufacture or sell some of our products, and increase the cost of obtaining products from foreign sources.  In addition, actual or alleged violations of these laws could result in enforcement actions and financial penalties that could result in substantial costs.  The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness. Leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect us.. As of June 30, 2018, we had approximately $39.5 million of indebtedness on a consolidated basis.  This level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay the principal of, interest on, or other amounts due with respect to our indebtedness.  Our senior credit facility bears interest at floating rates related to LIBOR, Eurodollar Rates, Eurocurrency Rates, Federal Funds Rate, and Prime Rates.  As a result, our interest payment obligations on such indebtedness will increase if such interest rates increase.  Our leverage could have negative consequences on our financial condition, and results of operations, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\timpairing our ability to meet one or more of the financial ratios contained in our senior and subordinated credit facilities or to generate cash sufficient to pay interest or principal, including periodic principal payments;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimiting our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequiring the dedication of a portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, thereby reducing the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures;. 19. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequiring us to sell debt or equity securities or to sell some of our core assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, to meet payment obligations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we compete; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tplacing us at a possible competitive disadvantage with less leveraged competitors and competitors that may have better access to capital resources.. The credit agreements governing our senior and subordinated credit facilities require us to comply with a number of customary financial and other covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage and leverage ratios in certain situations and maintaining insurance coverage.  These covenants may limit our flexibility in our operations, and breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness even if we had satisfied our payment obligations.  If we were to default on the credit agreements or other debt instruments, our financial condition would be adversely affected.. If we default on any of the Financial Ratio Covenants required by our Credit Facilities, all of our outstanding loans would become due and payable, which would be materially adverse to our Company.. The terms and conditions of the respective agreements governing the Senior ABL Credit Facility and the Subordinated Loan Agreement (together, our \"Credit Facilities\") each contain covenants requiring the Company to maintain certain financial ratios.  Non-compliance by the Company with any of the financial ratio covenants would constitute events of default under both of the Credit Facilities pursuant to cross-default provisions and result in acceleration of payment obligations for all outstanding principal and interest for loans made under both of the Credit Facilities, unless such defaults were waived or subject to forbearance by the respective creditors.. Despite current indebtedness levels and restrictive covenants, we and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness or we may pay dividends in the future.  This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial financial leverage.. We and our subsidiaries may incur significant additional indebtedness in the future under the agreements governing our indebtedness.  Although the credit agreements governing our credit facilities contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of thresholds, qualifications and exceptions, and the additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be material.  Additionally, these restrictions also will not prevent us from incurring obligations that, although preferential to our common stock in terms of payment, may not constitute indebtedness.. In addition, if new debt is added to our Company's and/or our subsidiaries' debt levels, the related risks that we now face as a result of our leverage would intensify.. To service our indebtedness, we will require significant amounts of cash, and our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control.. Our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries.  Our ability to make cash payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, to fund planned capital expenditures and to meet other cash requirements will depend on our financial condition and operating performance of our subsidiaries, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business, legislative, regulatory, and other factors beyond our control.  We might not be able to maintain a level of cash flow from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness.. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available under our credit facilities in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs.  In such circumstances, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity.  We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all.  If we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments, and alliances.  Such actions, if necessary, may not be effected. 20. Table of Contents. on commercially reasonable terms or at all.  Our indebtedness will restrict our ability to sell assets and use the proceeds from such sales.. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants in the instruments governing our indebtedness, we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness.  In the event of such default, the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.  If our operating performance declines, we may in the future need to obtain waivers from the required lenders under our credit facilities to avoid being in default.  If we breach our covenants under our credit facilities and seek waivers, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required lenders.  If this occurs, we would be in default under our credit facilities, and the lenders could exercise their rights, as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.. We are dependent upon our lenders for financing to execute our business strategy and meet our liquidity needs.  If our lenders are unable to fund borrowings under their credit commitments or we are unable to borrow, it could negatively impact our business.. During periods of volatile credit markets, there is a risk that any lenders, even those with strong balance sheets and sound lending practices, could fail or refuse to honor their legal commitments and obligations under existing credit commitments, including, but not limited to, extending credit up to the maximum permitted by our credit agreement.  If our lenders are unable to fund borrowings or we are unable to borrow (such as having insufficient capacity under our borrowing base), it could be difficult in such environments to obtain sufficient liquidity to meet our operational needs.. Our ability to obtain additional capital on commercially reasonable terms may be limited.. Although we believe our cash and cash equivalents as well as cash we expect to generate from operations and availability under our credit facilities provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating requirements, we may need to seek additional financing to compete effectively. If we are unable to obtain capital on commercially reasonable terms, it could:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\treduce funds available to us for purposes such as working capital, capital expenditures, research and development, strategic acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trestrict our ability to introduce new products or exploit business opportunities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincrease our vulnerability to economic downturns and competitive pressures in the markets in which we operate; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tplace us at a competitive disadvantage.. Difficult and volatile conditions in the capital, credit, and commodities markets, and in the overall economy, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. A worsening of global economic conditions, including concerns about sovereign debt and significant volatility in the capital, credit, and commodities markets could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Difficult conditions in these markets and the overall economy affect our business in a number of ways.  For example:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tin the event of volatility in commodity prices, we may encounter difficulty in achieving sustained market acceptance of past or future price increases, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tunder difficult market conditions there can be no assurance that borrowings under our credit facilities would be available or sufficient, and in such a case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on reasonable terms, or at all;. 21. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tin order to respond to market conditions, we may need to seek waivers from various provisions in our credit facilities.  There can be no assurance that we can obtain such waivers at a reasonable cost, if at all;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmarket conditions could cause the counterparties to the derivative financial instruments we may use to hedge our exposure to interest rate, commodity, or currency fluctuations to experience financial difficulties and, as a result, our efforts to hedge these exposures could prove unsuccessful and, furthermore, our ability to engage in additional hedging activities may decrease or become more costly; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmarket conditions could result in our key customers experiencing financial difficulties and/or electing to limit spending, which in turn could result in decreased sales and earnings for us.. Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock. One holder of our common stock exerts significant influence over our Company and may make decisions with which other stockholders may disagree that could reduce the value of our stock.. Everest Hill Group owns 12,292,838 shares, or 52.7%, of our total 23,315,915 outstanding shares as of June 30, 2018.  As a result, Everest Hill Group has the ability to exert control over our business and may make decisions with which other stockholders may disagree, including, among other things, the appointment of officers and directors, changes in our business plan, delaying, discouraging or preventing a change of control of our Company or a potential merger, consolidation, tender offer, takeover or other business combination.. The price of our Common Stock may fluctuate significantly, and investors could lose all or part of their investment.. The market price of our Common Stock has been highly volatile. During the twelve months ended June 30, 2018, the closing price of our common stock fluctuated significantly from a high of $3.10 to a low of $1.80 per share. The market price of our common stock may continue to be volatile in the future.  Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent investors from being able to sell their common stock at or above the price investors paid for such common stock.  The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for various reasons, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour operating and financial performance and prospects;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe public's reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in, or failure to meet, earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who track our common stock or the stock of other companies in our industry;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe failure of research analysts to cover our common stock;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tstrategic actions by us, our customers or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnew laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations, or principles;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe impact on our profitability temporarily caused by the time lag between when we experience cost increases and when these increases flow through cost of sales because of our method of accounting for inventory, or the impact from our inability to pass on such price increases to our customers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmaterial litigations or government investigations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in general conditions in the U.S. and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism, or responses to such events;. 22. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in key personnel;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsales of common stock by us, Everest Hill Group, or members of our management team;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe implementation of our employee stock purchase plan or the granting or exercise of employee stock options;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tvolume of trading in our common stock; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe realization of any risks described under this \"Risk Factors\" section.. These and other factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock.  In addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock.  If any of our stockholders were to bring a class action lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit.  Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management from our business.. In addition, volatility or lack of performance in the trading price of our common stock may also affect our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel.  If we are unable to retain our employees, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be harmed.. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, the ability to achieve a return on your investment in our common stock will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock.  If our common stock does not appreciate in value, investors could suffer losses in their investment in our common stock.. We do not currently expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock.  Any future dividend payments are within the absolute discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, working capital requirements, capital expenditure requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions, business opportunities, potential acquisition opportunities, anticipated cash needs, provisions of applicable law, and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant.  We may not generate sufficient cash from operations in the future to pay dividends on our common stock.  As a result, the success of any investment in our common stock will depend on future appreciation in its value.  The price of our common stock may not appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which the shares were purchased.  If our common stock does not appreciate in value, investors could suffer losses in their investment in our common stock.. Investors may experience dilution of their ownership interests due to the future issuance of additional shares of our common stock which could be materially adverse to the value of our common stock.. As of the end of the period covered by this Report, we have 23,315,915 shares of our common stock outstanding.  We are authorized to issue up to 250,000,000 shares of Common Stock and 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock.  We, or our shareholders, including Everest Hill Group, may sell additional shares of common stock in subsequent offerings or we may issue shares of our common stock as consideration in the future acquisitions.  Our Board of Directors may authorize the issuance of additional common or preferred shares under applicable state law without shareholder approval.  We may also issue additional shares of our common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for common stock in connection with the hiring of personnel, future acquisitions, future private placements of our securities for capital raising purposes or for other business purposes.  If we need to raise additional capital to expand or continue operations, it may be necessary for us to issue additional equity or convertible debt securities.  If we issue equity or convertible debt securities, the net tangible book value per share may decrease, the percentage ownership of our current stockholders may be diluted and such equity securities may have rights, preferences, or privileges senior or more advantageous than those of our common stockholders.  We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock.  Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock.. 23. Table of Contents. We may issue additional common shares or other securities to finance our growth.. We may finance the development of our products and services or generate additional working capital through additional equity financing.  Therefore, subject to the rules of NASDAQ, we may issue additional shares of our common stock and other equity securities of equal or senior rank, with or without stockholder approval, in a number of circumstances from time to time.  The issuance by us of shares of our common stock or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe proportionate ownership interest in us held by our existing stockholders will decrease;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe relative voting strength of each previously outstanding share of common stock may be diminished; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe market price of our common stock may decline.. If our shares become subject to the penny stock rules, it would become more difficult to trade our shares.. The SEC has adopted rules that regulate broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in penny stocks.  Penny stocks are generally equity securities with a price of less than $5.00, other than securities registered on certain national securities exchanges or authorized for quotation on certain automated quotation systems, provided that current price and volume information with respect to transactions in such securities is provided by the exchange or system.  If we do not retain a listing on NASDAQ and if the price of our shares of common stock is less than $5.00, our common stock will be deemed a penny stock.  The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, before a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from those rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document containing specified information.  In addition, the penny stock rules require that before effecting any transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from those rules, a broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive: (i) the purchaser's written acknowledgment of the receipt of a risk disclosure statement; (ii) a written agreement to transactions involving penny stocks; and (iii) a signed and dated copy of a written suitability statement.  These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the trading activity in the secondary market for our common stock, and therefore stockholders may have difficulty selling their shares.. We will be required to meet NASDAQ's continued listing requirements and other NASDAQ rules, or we may risk delisting. Delisting could negatively affect the price of our common stock, which could make it more difficult for us to sell securities in a future financing or for purchasers to sell their common stock.. We are required to meet the continued listing requirements of NASDAQ and other NASDAQ rules, including those regarding minimum stockholders' equity, minimum share price, and certain other corporate governance requirements.  In particular, we are required to maintain a minimum bid price for our listed common stock of $1.00 per share.  If we do not meet these continued listing requirements, our common stock could be delisted.  Delisting from NASDAQ would cause us to pursue eligibility for trading of these securities on other markets, exchanges, or over-the-counter quotation systems.  In such case, our stockholders' ability to trade, or obtain quotations of the market value of, our common stock would be severely limited because of lower trading volumes and transaction delays.  These factors could contribute to lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices of these securities.  There can be no assurance that the offered securities, if delisted from NASDAQ in the future, would be listed on a national securities exchange, a national quotation service, the over-the-counter markets or the pink sheets.  Delisting from NASDAQ, or even the issuance of a notice of potential delisting, would also result in negative publicity, make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital, adversely affect the market liquidity of the offered securities, decrease securities analysts' coverage of us or diminish investor, supplier, and employee confidence.. There can be no assurance that we will ever provide liquidity to our investors through a sale of our Company.. While acquisitions of companies like ours are not uncommon, potential investors are cautioned that no assurances can be given that any form of merger, combination, or sale of our Company will take place, or that any merger, combination, or sale, even if consummated, would provide liquidity or a profit for our investors.  Investors should not purchase common stock in our Company with the expectation that we will be able to sell the business in order to provide liquidity or a profit for our investors.. 24. Table of Contents. Reports published by analysts, including projections in those reports that exceed our actual results, could adversely affect our common stock price and trading volume.. We currently expect that securities research analysts will publish their own periodic projections for our business.  These projections may vary widely and may not accurately predict the results we actually achieve.  Our stock price may decline if our actual results do not match the projections of these securities research analysts. Similarly, if one or more of the analysts who write reports on us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price could decline.  If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, our stock price or trading volume could decline.  While we expect continued research analyst coverage, if no analysts continue coverage of us, the trading price for our stock and the trading volume could be adversely affected."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
