[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business faces significant risks. The following risk factors could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and the price of our common stock. We may encounter risks in addition to those described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair or adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We are highly dependent on the architectural, engineering, construction and building owner/operator (AEC/O) industry and any decline in that industry could adversely affect our future revenue and profitability.. We estimate that customers in the AEC/O industry accounted for approximately 78% of our net sales in 2017; therefore, our results largely depend on the strength of that industry. Our historical operating results reflect the cyclical and variable nature of the AEC/O industry. We believe that the industry generally experiences downturns several months after a downturn in the general economy, and that there may be a similar delay in the recovery of the AEC/O industry following a recovery of the general economy. A downturn in the AEC/O industry would diminish demand for some of our products and services, and would therefore negatively affect our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. Adverse domestic and global economic conditions and disruption of financial and commercial real estate markets could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. A prolonged economic downturn may adversely affect the ability of our customers and suppliers to obtain financing and to perform their obligations under agreements with us. These restrictions could result in a decrease in, or cancellation of, existing business, could limit new business, and could negatively affect our ability to collect on our accounts receivable on a timely basis, if at all. These events may, in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Because a significant portion of our overall costs are fixed, our earnings are highly sensitive to changes in revenue.. Our network of service centers, equipment and related support activities involves substantial fixed costs which cannot be adjusted quickly to respond to declines in demand for our services. We estimate approximately 36% of our overall costs were fixed in 2017. As a consequence, our results of operations are subject to relatively high levels of volatility and our earnings could deteriorate rapidly in the face of declining revenues because our ability to reduce fixed costs in the short-term is limited. If we fail to manage our fixed costs appropriately, or to maintain adequate cash reserves to cover such costs, we may suffer material adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition.. 10. Impairment of goodwill may adversely affect future results of operations.. We have intangible assets, including goodwill and other identifiable acquired intangibles on our balance sheet due to prior acquisitions. Based on our 2017 annual goodwill impairment assessment, we determined that goodwill was impaired and we recorded an impairment of $17.6 million.. The results of our impairment analysis are as of a particular point in time. If our assumptions regarding future forecasted revenue or profitability of our reporting units are not achieved, we may be required to record additional goodwill impairment charges in future periods, if any such change constitutes a triggering event prior to the quarter in which we perform our annual goodwill impairment test.. Competition in our industry and innovation by our competitors may hinder our ability to execute our business strategy and adversely affect our profitability.. The markets for our products and services are highly competitive, with competition primarily at local and regional levels. We compete primarily based on the level and quality of customer service, technological leadership, and price. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to improve our service and product offerings, and develop and integrate new technology solutions. In addition, current and prospective customers may decide to perform certain services themselves instead of outsourcing these services to us. These competitive pressures could adversely affect our sales and consolidated results of operations.. We also face the possibility that competition will continue to increase, particularly if copy and printing or business services companies choose to compete in lines of business similar to ours. Many of these companies are substantially larger and have significantly greater financial resources than us, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage. In addition, we could encounter competition in the future from large, well-capitalized companies such as equipment dealers and system integrators that can produce their own technology and leverage their existing distribution channels. Any such future competition could adversely affect our business and reduce our future revenue and profitability.. If we are unable to charge for our value-added services to offset declines in print volumes, our long-term revenue could decline.. Our customers value the ability to view and order prints over the internet and print to output devices in their own offices and other locations throughout the country and the world. In 2017, our CDIM sales, which consists of the management, distribution, and production of documents and information related to construction projects, including large-format construction drawings, black and white and color signage, specification documents, and marketing material represented approximately 52% of our total net sales, and our MPS represented approximately 33% of our total net sales. Both categories of revenue are generally derived from a charge per square foot of printed material. Future technology advances may further facilitate and improve our customers' ability to reduce print and the associated costs thereof. As technology continues to improve, this trend toward printing on an \"as needed\" basis could result in further decreased printing volumes and sales decline in the longer term. Failure to offset these declines in printing volumes by changing how we charge for our services and develop additional revenue sources could significantly affect our business and reduce our long term revenue, resulting in an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. We derive a significant percentage of net sales from within the State of California and our business could be disproportionately harmed by an economic downturn or natural disaster affecting California.. We derived approximately 34% of our net sales in 2017 from our operations in California. As a result, we are dependent to a large extent upon the AEC/O industry in California and, accordingly, are sensitive to economic factors affecting AEC/O activity in California, including general and local economic conditions, macroeconomic trends, political factors affecting commercial and residential real estate development and natural disasters (including drought, earthquakes and wildfires). Any adverse developments affecting California could have a disproportionately negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our growth strategy depends, in part, on our ability to successfully market and execute several different, but related, service offerings. Failure to do so could impede our future growth and adversely affect our competitive position.. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to continue to offer and grow a variety of service offerings that are relatively new to the company. Our efforts will be affected by our ability to acquire new customers for our new service offerings as well as sell the new service offerings to existing customers. If we fail to procure new customers, our growth may be adversely affected and we may incur operating losses as a result of a failure to realize revenue from investments made in new service offerings.. 11. We are dependent upon our vendors to continue to supply us equipment, parts, supplies, and services at comparable terms and price levels as the business grows.. Our access to equipment, parts, supplies, and services depends upon our relationships with, and our ability to purchase these items on competitive terms from our principal vendors. These vendors are not required to use us to distribute their equipment and are generally free to change the prices and other terms at which they sell to us. In addition, we compete with the selling efforts of some of these vendors. Significant deterioration in relationships with, or in the financial condition of, these significant vendors could have an adverse effect on our ability to sell equipment as well as our ability to provide effective service and technical support. If one of these vendors terminates or significantly curtails its relationship with us, or if one of these vendors ceases operations, we would be forced to expand our relationships with our other existing vendors or seek out new relationships with previously unused vendors.. Our failure to adequately protect the proprietary aspects of our technology, including SKYSITE®, PlanWell®, and AbacusTM may cause us to lose market share.. Our success depends on our ability to protect and preserve the proprietary aspects of our technology products. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements, license agreements, non-competition agreements, reseller agreements, customer contracts, and technical measures to establish and protect our rights in our proprietary technologies. These protections, however, may not be adequate to remedy harm we suffer due to misappropriation of our proprietary rights by third parties. In addition, the laws of certain countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States and we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position. It is also possible that our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, allowing others to use our intellectual property to our competitive detriment. We also must ensure that all of our products comply with existing and newly enacted regulatory requirements in the countries in which they are sold. Furthermore, we may, from time to time, be subject to intellectual property litigation which can be expensive, a burden on management's time and our Company's resources, and the outcome of any such litigation may be uncertain.. Our computer hardware and software and telecommunications systems are susceptible to damage, breach or interruption.. The management of our business is aided by the uninterrupted operation of our computer and telecommunication systems. These systems are vulnerable to security breaches, natural disasters or other catastrophic events, computer viruses, or other interruptions or damage stemming from power outages, equipment failure or unintended usage by employees. In particular, our employees may have access or exposure to personally identifiable or otherwise confidential information and customer data and systems, the misuse of which could result in legal liability. In addition, we rely on information technology systems to process, transmit and store electronic information and to communicate among our locations around the world and with our clients, partners and consultants, including through cloud-based platforms often provided by third parties. The breadth and complexity of this infrastructure increases the potential risk of security breaches. Security breaches, including cyber-attacks or cyber-intrusions by computer hackers, foreign governments, cyber terrorists or others with grievances against the industry in which we operate or us in particular, may disable or damage the proper functioning of our networks and systems. It is possible that our security controls, or those of the third parties with whom we partner, over personal and other data may not prevent unauthorized access to, or destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of personally identifiable or other proprietary, confidential, sensitive or valuable information of ours or others; this access could lead to potential unauthorized disclosure of confidential Company or client information that others could use to compete against us or for other disruptive, destructive or harmful purposes and outcomes. Any such disclosure or damage to our networks, or those of the third parties with whom we partner, and systems could subject us to third party claims against us and reputational harm. If these events occur, our ability to attract new clients may be impaired or we may be subjected to damages or penalties. In addition, system-wide or local failures of these information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. In performing our document management services, we handle customers' confidential information. Our failure to protect our customers' confidential information against security breaches could damage our reputation, harm our business and adversely affect our results of operations.. Our document management services involve the handling of our customers' confidential information. Any compromise of security, accidental loss or theft of customer data in our possession could damage our reputation and expose us to risk of liability, which could harm our business and adversely affect our consolidated results of operation.. Added risks are associated with our international operations.. We have international operations in China, India, the United Kingdom, Canada, Hong Kong, United Arab Emirates, and Australia. Approximately 14% of our revenues for 2017 were derived from our international operations, with approximately 8% derived from China. Our future revenues, costs of operations and net income could be adversely affected by a number of factors. 12. related to our international operations, including changes in economic conditions from country to country, currency fluctuations, changes in a country's political condition, trade protection measures, licensing and other legal requirements and local tax issues.. A large percentage of our cash and cash equivalents are held outside of the United States, and we could be subject to repatriation delays and costs which could reduce our financial flexibility.. Approximately 52% of our cash and cash equivalents are currently held outside the United States. Repatriation of some of the funds could be subject to delay for local country approvals and could have potential adverse tax consequences. As a result of holding cash and cash equivalents outside of the U.S., our financial flexibility may be reduced.. Our business could suffer if we fail to attract, retain, and successfully integrate skilled personnel.. We believe that our ability to attract, retain, and successfully integrate qualified personnel is critical to our success. As we continue to place more emphasis on document management and storage technology, our need to hire and retain software and other technology focused personnel has and can be expected to continue to increase. Competition for such personnel, particularly in the San Francisco Bay Area, is intense. If we lose key personnel and/or are unable to recruit qualified personnel, our ability to manage and grow our business will be adversely affected. In addition, the loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team would disrupt our business and impede our ability to successfully execute our business strategy.. The market prices of our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of an investment in our stock to decline.. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Between January 1, 2017 and December 31, 2017, the closing price of our common stock has fluctuated from a low of $2.41 to a high of $5.44 per share. Factors that may contribute to fluctuations in the market prices of our common stock include:. •failure to sustain an active, liquid trading market for our shares;. • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts or failure to meet analysts' performance expectations;. •changes in market valuations of similar companies;. •changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of debt;. •sales of our capital stock by our directors or executive officers;. •the gain or loss of significant customers;. • actual or anticipated developments in our business or our competitors' businesses, such as announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances, or in the competitive landscape generally;. •litigation involving us, our industry or both;. •additions or departures of key personnel;. •investors' general perception of us;. •our stock repurchase program; and. •changes in general economic, industry and market conditions.. The stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These types of broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.. In the past, stockholders have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. Any similar litigation against us could result in substantial costs, divert management's attention as well as our other resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Damage or disruption to our facilities, including our technology center, could impair our ability to effectively provide our services and may have a significant effect on our revenues, expenses and financial condition.. 13. Our IT systems are an important part of our operations. We currently store customer data at servers hosted by Amazon and at our technology center located in Silicon Valley near known earthquake fault zones. Although we have redundant systems and offsite backup procedures in place, interruption in service, damage to or destruction of our technology center or a disruption of our data storage processes resulting from sustained process abnormalities, human error, acts of terrorism, violence, war or a natural disaster, such as fire, earthquake or flood, could result in delays, in reduced levels of customer service and have a material adverse effect on the markets in which we operate and on our business operations.. Although we currently maintain general property damage insurance, if we incur losses from uninsured events, we could incur significant expenses which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Results of tax examinations may adversely affect our future results of operations.. We are subject to various tax examinations on an ongoing basis. Adverse results of tax examinations for income, payroll, value added, sales-based and other taxes may require future material tax payments if we are unable to sustain our position with the relevant jurisdiction. Where appropriate, we have made accruals for these matters which are reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheets and Statements of Operations.. Changes in tax laws and interpretations could adversely affect our business.. We are subject to income and other taxes in the U.S. and in numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our domestic and foreign tax provisions are dependent on the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed. Additionally, the amount of tax provision is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. A number of factors influence our effective tax rate, including changes in tax laws and treaties as well as the interpretation of existing laws and rules. Federal, state, and local governments and administrative bodies within the U.S., which represents a majority of our operations, and other foreign jurisdictions have implemented, or are considering, a variety of broad tax, trade, and other regulatory reforms that may impact us. For example, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"TCJA\") enacted on December 22, 2017 resulted in changes in our federal corporate tax rate, our deferred income taxes, and the taxation of foreign earnings. It is not currently possible to accurately determine the potential impact of proposed or future changes, but such changes could have a material impact on our business.. Our debt instruments impose certain restrictions on our ability to operate which in turn could negatively affect our ability to respond to business and market conditions and therefore could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $144.4 million in outstanding short and long-term borrowings under term loans, revolver, and capital leases, excluding trade payables. The terms of the agreements under which this indebtedness was incurred may limit or restrict, among other things, our ability to incur certain additional debt, make certain restricted payments, consummate certain asset sales, and enter into certain transactions with affiliates.. We are also required to maintain a total leverage ratio and fixed charge coverage ratio under our credit agreement. Our inability to meet these ratios could result in the acceleration of the repayment of the outstanding obligations under the Credit Agreement, the termination of the lenders' commitment to provide our revolving line of credit thereunder, the increase in our effective cost of funds or the cross-default of other credit arrangements. As a result, our ability to operate may be restricted and our ability to respond to business and market conditions may be limited, which could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results.. If the interest rates on our borrowings increase, our access to capital and net income could be adversely affected.. Our Credit Agreement and capital leases are variable-rate instruments which expose us to interest rate risks. If interest rates increase, debt service obligations and our interest expense will increase even though the amount borrowed remains the same. Our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease.. An increase in interest rates may increase our future borrowing costs and restrict our access to capital. Additionally, current market conditions, the recovering global economy, and overall credit conditions could limit our availability of capital, which could cause increases in interest margin spreads over underlying indices, effectively increasing the cost of our borrowing. While some of our debt instruments have contractually negotiated spreads, any changes to these spreads in connection with renegotiation of our Credit Agreement or capital leases could adversely affect our results of operations.. We had previously entered into interest rate caps with a financial institution to effectively convert a portion of our floating rate debt to a fixed interest rate to manage our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. However, those interest rate caps have expired.. 14. We may be exposed to employment-related claims and costs and periodic litigation that could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We are subject to a number of risks inherent to our status as an employer including without limitation:. • claims of misconduct or negligence on the part of our employees, discrimination or harassment claims against our employees, or claims by our employees of discrimination or harassment by our clients;. • claims relating to violations of wage, hour and other workplace regulations;. • claims relating to employee benefits, entitlements to employee benefits, or errors in the calculation or administration of such benefits; and. • possible claims relating to misuse of customer confidential information, misappropriation of assets or other similar claims.. If we experience significant incidents involving any of the above-described risk areas we could face substantial out-of-pocket losses, or fines. In addition, such claims may give rise to litigation, which may be time consuming, distracting and costly, and could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We cannot guarantee that our stock repurchase program will enhance long-term shareholder value, and stock repurchases could increase the volatility of the price of our stock.. In February 2016, our board of directors authorized us to repurchase up to $15.0 million of the Company's common stock.  The Company repurchased approximately $8.8 million of the Company's outstanding common stock  through December 31, 2017 pursuant to the approved program.  The stock repurchase program does not obligate the Company to repurchase any specific dollar amount or to acquire any specific number of shares. The stock repurchase program could affect the price of our stock and increase volatility, which may result in a decrease in the trading price of our stock. For example, the existence of a stock repurchase program could cause our stock price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our stock. There can be no assurance that any stock repurchases will enhance stockholder value because the market price of our common stock may decline below the levels at which we determine to repurchase our stock. Although our stock repurchase program is intended to enhance long-term stockholder value, there is no assurance that it will do so and short-term stock price fluctuations could reduce the program's effectiveness. The amount of stock we are permitted to repurchase is also limited by the terms of our Credit Agreement."
