[1] "ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS. The nature of the business activities we conduct subjects us to certain hazards and risks. This Risk Factors section discusses some of the material risks relating to our business activities, including business risks affecting the transportation industry in general as well as risks specific to our Company that are largely out of our control. Other risks are described in \"Competition, Pricing, and Industry Factors\" within Part I, Item 1 (Business) and in Part II, Item 7A (Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk) of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risks are not the only risks we face. We may also be negatively impacted by a sustained interruption in our systems or operations, including, but not limited to, infrastructure damage, the loss of a key location such as a distribution center, or a significant disruption to the electric grid, or by a significant decline in demand for our services, each of which may arise from adverse weather conditions or natural calamities; illegal acts, including terrorist attacks; and/or other market disruptions. We could also be affected by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial. If any of these risks or circumstances actually occurs, it could materially harm our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows and impair our ability to implement business plans or complete development activities as scheduled. In that case, the market price of our common stock could decline.. We are dependent on our information technology systems, and a systems failure, data breach, or other cyber incident could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. We depend on the proper functioning and availability of our information systems, including communications, data processing, financial, and operating systems as well as proprietary software programs, that are integral to the efficient operation of our business. Cybersecurity attacks and other cyber incidents that impact the availability, reliability, speed, accuracy, or other proper functioning of these systems or that result in confidential data being compromised could have a significant impact on our operations. We utilize certain software applications provided by third parties, or provide underlying data which is utilized by third parties who provide certain outsourced administrative functions, either of which may increase the risk of a cybersecurity incident. Any problems caused by these third parties, including cyber attacks and security breaches at a vendor, could adversely affect our ability to provide service to our customers and otherwise conduct our business. A significant cyber incident, including denial of service, system failure, security breach, intentional or inadvertent acts by employees, disruption by malware, or other damage, could interrupt or delay our operations, damage our reputation, cause a loss of customers, cause errors or delays in financial reporting, expose us to a risk of loss or litigation, and/or cause us to incur significant time and expense to remedy such an event, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Our business interruption and cyber insurance would offset losses up to certain coverage limits in the event of a catastrophe or certain cyber incidents; however, losses arising from a catastrophe or significant cyber incident would likely exceed our insurance coverage and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, a significant cyber incident, including denial of service, system failure, security breach, intentional or inadvertent acts by employees, disruption by malware, or other damage, could interrupt or delay our operations, damage our reputation, cause a loss of customers, cause errors or delays in financial reporting, expose us to a risk of loss or litigation, and/or cause us to incur significant time and expense to remedy such event. We have experienced incidents involving attempted denial of service attacks, malware attacks, and other events intended to disrupt information systems, wrongfully obtain valuable information, or cause other types of malicious events that could have resulted in harm to our business. To date, the systems employed have been effective in identifying these types of events at a point when the impact on our business could be minimized. We must continuously monitor and develop our information technology networks and infrastructure to prevent, detect, address, and mitigate the risk of unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses, and other events that could have a security impact.. Certain of our information technology needs are provided by third parties, and we have limited control over the operation, quality, or maintenance of services provided by our vendors or whether they will continue to provide services that are essential to our business. The efficient and uninterrupted operation of our information technology systems depends upon the internet, global communications providers, satellite-based communications systems, the electric grid, electric utility providers, and telecommunications providers; and our information technology systems are vulnerable to interruption by adverse weather conditions or natural calamities, power loss, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks, internet failures, computer viruses, and other events beyond our control. Disruptions or failures in the services upon which our information technology platforms rely, or in other services provided to us by outside service providers upon which we rely to operate our business and report financial results, may adversely affect our operations and the services we provide, which could increase our costs or result in a loss of customers that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 15. Table of Contents. and financial condition. Additionally, we license a variety of software that supports our operations, and these operations depend on our ability to maintain these licenses. We have no guarantees that we will be able to continue these licensing arrangements with the current licensors, or that we can replace the functions provided by these licenses, on commercially reasonable terms or at all.. We depend on our employees to support our business operations and future growth opportunities. If our relationship with our employees deteriorates, if we have difficulty attracting and retaining employees, or if our Asset-Based segment is unable to reach agreement on future collective bargaining agreements, we could be faced with labor inefficiencies, disruptions, or stoppages, or delayed growth, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.. As of December 2017, approximately 83% of our Asset-Based segment's employees were covered under the ABF NMFA, the collective bargaining agreement with the IBT which extends through March 31, 2018. Contract negotiations for the period subsequent to March 31, 2018 began in January 2018 and are in progress. The negotiation of terms of the collective bargaining agreement is a very complex process. There can be no assurances that our future collective bargaining agreements will be renewed on terms favorable to us. Future collective bargaining agreements may result in higher labor costs, including increased benefit contribution rates to multiemployer health and welfare and pension plans and additional paid time off, or insufficient operational flexibility which may increase our operating costs, and could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. The terms of future collective bargaining agreements or the inability to agree on acceptable terms for the next contract period may also result in a work stoppage, the loss of customers, or other events that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. We could also experience a loss of customers or a reduction in our potential share of business in the markets we serve if shippers limit their use of unionized freight transportation service providers because of the risk of work stoppages.. We have not historically experienced any significant long-term difficulty in attracting or retaining qualified drivers and freight-handling personnel for our Asset-Based operations, although short-term difficulties have been encountered in certain situations, such as periods of significant increases in tonnage levels, and the available pool of drivers has been declining. Difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers and freight-handling personnel or contractually required increases in compensation or fringe benefit costs could affect our profitability and our ability to grow. Government regulations or the adverse impact of certain legislative actions that result in shortages of qualified drivers could also impact our ability to grow the Company. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain qualified drivers, we could incur higher driver recruiting expenses or a loss of business. In addition to difficulties we may experience in driver retention, if we are unable to effectively manage our relationship with the IBT, we could be less effective in ongoing relations and future negotiations, which could lead to operational inefficiencies and increased operating costs.. Our ability to maintain and grow our business will also depend, in part, on our ability to retain and attract additional sales representatives and other key operational personnel and properly incentivize them to obtain new customers, maintain existing customer relationships, and efficiently manage our business. If we are unable to maintain or expand our sales and operational workforce, our ability to increase our revenues and operate our business could be negatively impacted.. The loss or reduction in business from one or more large customers, or an overall reduction in our customer base, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.. Although we do not have a significant customer concentration, the growth of our business could be materially impacted and our results of operations would be adversely affected if we lost all or a portion of the business of some of our large customers because they: chose to divert all or a portion of their business with us to one of our competitors; demanded pricing concessions for our services; required us to provide enhanced services that increase our costs; or developed their own shipping and distribution capabilities.. Effective August 1, 2017, we began applying space-based minimum charges for LTL shipments to better reflect freight shipping trends that have evolved over the last several years. Space-based pricing involves the use of freight dimensions to determine applicable cubic minimum charges (\"CMC\") that will supplement weight-based metrics when appropriate. Customer acceptance of the CMC pricing mechanism is difficult to ascertain at this point. Management cannot predict, with reasonable certainty, the changes in business levels and the impact on the total revenue per hundredweight measure due to the implementation of the CMC mechanism. Some customers may not be receptive to our space-based pricing initiatives, which could result in payment delays, uncollectible accounts receivable, or a loss of business. A reduction in. 16. Table of Contents. our customer base or difficulty in collecting, or the inability to collect, payments from our customers due to changes in pricing or other competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.. Our initiatives to grow our business operations or to manage our cost structure to business levels may take longer than anticipated or may not be successful.. Developing service offerings requires ongoing investment in personnel and infrastructure, including operating and management information systems. Depending upon the timing and level of revenues generated from our growth initiatives, the related results of operations and cash flows we anticipate from these initiatives and additional service offerings may not be achieved. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be adversely affected.. Our growth plans place significant demands on our management and operating personnel and we may not be able to hire, train, and retain the appropriate personnel to manage and grow these services. Hiring new employees may increase training costs and may result in temporary labor inefficiencies. In addition, as we focus on growing the business in our ArcBest segment, we may encounter difficulties in adapting our corporate structure or in developing and maintaining effective partnerships among our operating segments, which could hinder our operational, financial, and strategic objectives. Furthermore, we may invest significant resources to enter or expand our services in markets with established competitors and in which we will encounter new competitive challenges, and we may not be able to successfully gain market share, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.. We also face challenges and risks in implementing initiatives to manage our cost structure to business levels, as portions of salaries, wages, and benefits are fixed in nature and the adjustments which would otherwise be necessary to align the labor cost structure to corresponding business levels are limited as we strive to maintain customer service. We may not be able to appropriately adjust our cost structure to changing market demands. It is more difficult to match our staffing levels to our business needs in periods of rapid or unexpected change. We may incur additional costs related to purchased transportation and/or labor inefficiencies experienced while, and for a time following, training employees who are hired to manage growth or are brought onboard from acquired companies. These costs of managing our cost structure could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We periodically evaluate and modify the network of our Asset-Based operations to reflect changes in customer demands and to reconcile the segment's infrastructure with tonnage levels and the proximity of customer freight, and there can be no assurance that these network changes, to the extent such network changes are made, will result in a material improvement in our Asset-Based segment's results of operations.. We operate in a highly competitive industry, and our business could suffer if we are unable to adequately address downward pricing pressures and other factors that could adversely affect our profitability, growth prospects, and ability to compete in the transportation industry.. We face significant competition in local, regional, national, and, to a lesser extent, international markets. We compete with LTL carriers of varying sizes, including both union and nonunion LTL carriers and, to a lesser extent, with truckload carriers and railroads. We also compete with domestic and global logistics service providers, including asset-light logistics companies, integrated logistics companies, and third-party freight brokers, which compete in one or more segments of the transportation industry. Numerous factors could adversely impact our ability to compete effectively in the transportation and logistics industry, retain our existing customers, or attract new customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. These competitive factors include, but are not limited to, the following:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tSome of our competitors have greater capital resources, a lower cost structure, or greater market share than we do or have other competitive advantages. The trend toward consolidation in the transportation industry could continue to create larger carriers with greater financial resources and other competitive advantages relating to their size, including increased market share and stronger competitive position. Consolidations within the industry could also result in our competitors providing a more comprehensive set of services at competitive prices. These competitive pressures may cause a decrease in our freight volume or shipment levels or require us to lower the prices we charge for our services, which could adversely affect our results of operations, growth prospects and profitability.. 17. Table of Contents. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tOur Asset-Based segment competes primarily with nonunion motor carriers who generally have a lower fringe benefit cost structure for their freight-handling and driving personnel than union carriers, and  have greater operating flexibility because they are subject to less stringent labor work rules. Wage and benefit concessions granted to certain union competitors allow for a lower cost structure than that of our Asset-Based segment. Under its current collective bargaining agreement, ABF Freight continues to pay some of the highest benefit contribution rates in the industry, which continues to adversely impact the operating results of our Asset-Based segment relative to our competitors in the LTL industry.. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tSome of our competitors, such as railroads, are outside the motor carrier freight transportation industry and certain challenges specific to the motor carrier freight transportation industry, including the competitive freight rate environment; capacity restraints in times of growing freight volumes; increased costs and potential shortages of commercial truck drivers; changes to driver hours-of-service requirements; increased costs of fuel and other operating expenses; and costs of compliance with existing and potential legal and environmental regulations, could result in the service offerings of these competitors being more competitive.. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tSome of our competitors periodically reduce their prices to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which limits our ability to maintain or increase prices. If customers select transportation service providers based on price alone rather than the total value offered, we may be unable to maintain our operating margins or to maintain or grow tonnage levels.. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tCustomers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress prices or result in the loss of some business to competitors.. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tCustomers may reduce the number of carriers they use by selecting \"core carriers\" as approved transportation service providers, and in some instances, we may not be selected.. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tCertain of our competitors may offer a broader portfolio of services or more effectively bundle their service offerings, which could impair our ability to maintain or grow our share of one or more markets in which we compete.. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe industry has experienced evolving freight shipping trends over the last several years, including overall growth and ongoing profile shift of bulkier shipments across the entire supply chain, the acceleration in e-commerce, and more unique requirements of many shipping and logistics solutions. An increasing percentage of freight is taking up more space in trailers without a corresponding increase in weight, which contributes to lower average weight per shipment. As the retail industry continues to undergo a shift away from the traditional brick and mortar model towards e-commerce, the manner in which our customers source or utilize our services will be impacted and our operating results could be adversely affected.. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tCompetition in the LTL industry from asset-light logistics and freight brokerage companies may adversely affect customer relationships and prices in our Asset-Based operations. Conversely, the operations of our ArcBest segment may be adversely impacted if customers develop their own logistics operations, thus reducing demand for our services, or if shippers shift business to truckload brokerage companies or asset-based trucking companies that also offer brokerage services in order to secure access to those companies' trucking capacity, particularly in times of tight industry-wide capacity. Our FleetNet operations also face a competitive disadvantage from companies which insource their fleet repair and maintenance services.. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tTo keep pace with advances in technology and client demands, we must anticipate market trends and enhance our information technology systems and continue to develop innovative services and capabilities in order to remain competitive. Our customers may not be willing to accept higher freight rates to cover the costs of our increased investments in technology.. 18. Table of Contents. Our business is cyclical in nature, and we are subject to general economic factors and instability in financial and credit markets that are largely beyond our control, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our business is cyclical in nature and tends to reflect general economic conditions. Our performance is affected by recessionary economic cycles, downturns in customers' business cycles, and changes in their business practices. Our tonnage and shipment levels are directly affected by industrial production and manufacturing, distribution, residential and commercial construction, and consumer spending, in each case, primarily in the North American economy, as well as our customers' inventory levels. We are also subject to risks related to disruption of world markets that could affect shipments between countries and could adversely affect the volume of freight in the market and related pricing. Recessionary economic conditions may result in a general decline in demand for freight transportation and logistics services. The pricing environment generally becomes more competitive during periods of slow economic growth and economic recessions, which adversely affects the profit margin for our services. In certain market conditions, we may have to accept more freight from freight brokers, where freight rates are typically lower, or we may be forced to incur more non-revenue miles to obtain loads. Economic conditions could adversely affect our customers' business levels, the amount of transportation services they require, and their ability to pay for our services, thus negatively impacting our working capital and our ability to satisfy our financial obligations and covenants of our financing arrangements. Because a portion of our costs are fixed, it may be difficult for us to quickly adjust our cost structure proportionately with fluctuations in volume levels. Customers encountering adverse economic conditions or facing credit issues could experience cash flow difficulties and, thus, represent a greater potential for payment delays or uncollectible accounts receivable, and, as a result, we may be required to increase our allowances for uncollectible accounts receivable. Our obligation to pay third-party service providers is not contingent upon payment from our customers, and we extend credit to certain of these customers which increases our exposure to uncollectible receivables.. Given the economic conditions of recent years, current economic uncertainties, and the potential impact on our business, there can be no assurance that our estimates and assumptions regarding the pricing environment and economic conditions, which are made for purposes of impairment tests related to operating assets and deferred tax assets, will prove to be accurate.. We depend on suppliers for equipment, parts, and services that are critical to our operations. A disruption in the availability or a significant increase in the cost to obtain these supplies, resulting from the effect of adverse economic conditions or related financial constraints on our suppliers' business levels or otherwise, could adversely impact our business and results of operations. Our operations and the rates we obtain for our services may also be negatively impacted when economic conditions lead to a decrease in shipping demand and excess tractor and trailer capacity in the industry.. We are affected by the instability in the financial and credit markets that from time to time has created volatility in various interest rates and returns on invested assets in recent years. We are subject to market risk due to variable interest rates on our accounts receivable securitization program and the revolving credit facility (\"Credit Facility\") outstanding under our Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the \"Credit Agreement\"). Although we have an interest rate swap agreement to mitigate a portion of our interest rate risk by effectively converting $50.0 million of borrowings under our Credit Facility, of which $130.0 million remains outstanding at the end of February 2018, from variable-rate interest to fixed-rate interest, changes in interest rates may increase our financing costs related to our Credit Facility, future borrowings against our accounts receivable securitization program, new note payable or capital lease arrangements, or additional sources of financing. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Furthermore, future financial market disruptions may adversely affect our ability to refinance our Credit Facility and accounts receivable securitization program, maintain our letter of credit arrangements or, if needed, secure alternative sources of financing. If any of the financial institutions that have extended credit commitments to us are adversely affected by economic conditions, disruption to the capital and credit markets, or increased regulation, they may become unable to fund borrowings under their credit commitments or otherwise fulfill their obligations to us, which could have an adverse impact on our ability to borrow additional funds, and thus have an adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. (See Note G to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of our financing arrangements.). 19. Table of Contents. Our nonunion defined benefit pension plan trust holds investments in short-duration debt securities and cash equivalent, fixed income, and floating rate loan mutual funds. Declines in the value of plan assets resulting from instability in the financial markets, general economic downturn, or other economic factors beyond our control could diminish the funded status of the nonunion defined benefit pension plan and potentially increase our requirement to make contributions to the plan, including an increase in our cash funding requirement prior to the final distribution of benefits to plan participants. A change in the interest rates used to calculate our funding requirements under the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (the \"PPA\") may also impact contributions required to fund our plan. Significant plan contribution requirements could reduce the cash available for working capital and other business needs and opportunities. An increase in required pension plan contributions may adversely impact our financial condition and liquidity. Substantial future investment losses on pension plan assets would increase pension expense in the years following the losses. In addition, a change in the discount rate used to calculate our obligations for our nonunion defined benefit pension plan and postretirement health benefit plan for financial statement purposes would impact the accumulated benefit obligation and expense for these plans. An increase in expense for these pension and postretirement plans may adversely impact our results of operations.. We could also experience losses on investments related to our cash surrender value of variable life insurance policies, which may negatively impact our results of operations.. Furthermore, it is not possible to predict the effects of actual or threatened armed conflicts, terrorist attacks, or political and/or civil unrest on the economy or on consumer confidence in the United States or the impact, if any, on our future results of operations or financial condition.. Our nonunion defined benefit pension plan could have greater than anticipated funding requirements, which may adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity.. In the fourth quarter of 2017, an amendment was executed to terminate our nonunion defined benefit pension plan as of December 31, 2017, as further discussed in Note I to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Lump sum benefit distributions to participants and the purchase of an annuity contract to settle the pension obligation related to benefits for which participants elect to defer payment until a later date, are likely to occur primarily in the second half of 2018. Our requirement to fund the plan prior to the final distribution of benefits to plan participants, the amount of which will be determined by the plan's actuary, is currently estimated to require a cash payment of approximately $10.0 million, although there can be no assurances in this regard, as the actual amount is dependent on various factors, including final benefit calculations, the benefit elections made by plan participants, interest rates, the value of plan assets, and the cost to purchase an annuity contract to settle the pension obligation related to benefits for which participants elect to defer payment until a later date.. We depend on services provided by third parties, and increased costs or disruption of these services, and claims arising from these services, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, and customer relationships.. A reduction in the availability of rail services or services provided by third-party capacity providers to meet customer requirements, as well as higher utilization of third-party agents to maintain service levels in periods of tonnage growth, could increase purchased transportation costs which we may be unable to pass along to our customers. If a disruption or reduction in transportation services from our rail or other third-party service providers were to occur, we could be faced with business interruptions that could cause us to fail to meet the needs of our customers. In addition, we may not be able to negotiate competitive contracts with railroads or other third-party service providers to expand our capacity, add additional routes, or obtain services at costs that are acceptable to us or our customers. If these situations occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, and customer relationships could be adversely impacted.. Our ability to secure the services of third-party service providers is affected by many risks beyond our control, including the inability to obtain the services of reliable third parties at competitive prices; the shortage of quality third-party providers, including owner operators for our Expedite operations and drivers of contracted carriers for our Truckload and Truckload-Dedicated operations; shortages in available cargo capacity; equipment shortages in the transportation industry, particularly among contracted truckload carriers; changes in government regulations affecting the transportation industry and their related impact on operations, such as hours-of-service rules and the ELD mandate discussed in \"Competition, Pricing, and Industry Factors\" within Part I, Item 1 (Business) of this Annual Report on Form 10-K; labor disputes; or a significant interruption in service or stoppage in third-party transportation services. Each of these risks could have a material adverse effect on the operating results of our Asset-Light businesses.. 20. Table of Contents. Third-party providers can be expected to increase their prices based on market conditions or to cover increases in operating expenses. These providers are subject to industry regulations which may have a significant impact on their operations, causing them to increase prices or exit the industry. Increased industry demand for these transportation services may reduce available capacity and such a reduction or other changes in these services offered by third parties may increase pricing or otherwise change the services we are able to offer to our customers. If we are unable to correspondingly increase the prices we charge to our customers, including the effect of third-party carrier rate increases outpacing customer pricing, or if we are unable to secure sufficient third-party services to meet our commitments to our customers, there could be a material adverse impact on the operations, revenues, and profitability of our Asset-Light businesses and our customer relationships.. In addition, we may be subject to claims arising from services provided by third parties, particularly in connection with the operations of our ArcBest segment, which are dependent on third-party contract carriers. From time to time, the drivers who are owner operators, independent contractors, or employees working for third-party carriers that we contract with are involved in accidents that may result in cargo loss or damage, other property damage, or serious personal injuries. As a result, claims may be asserted against us for actions by such drivers or for our actions in retaining them. We may also incur claims in connection with third-party vendors utilized in FleetNet's operations. Our third-party contract carriers and other vendors may not agree to bear responsibility for such claims or we may become responsible if they are unable to pay the claims, for example, due to bankruptcy proceedings, and such claims may exceed the amount of our insurance coverage or may not be covered by insurance at all.. Our engagement of independent contractor drivers to provide a portion of the capacity for our Expedite operations within our ArcBest segment exposes us to different risks than we face with our employee drivers. If we have difficulty in securing independent owner operators or if we experience operational or regulatory issues related to our use of these contract drivers, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected.. The driver fleet of the Expedite operations within our ArcBest segment is made up of independent owner operators and individuals. We face intense competition in attracting and retaining qualified owner operators from the available pool of drivers and fleets, and we may be required to increase owner operator compensation or take other measures to remain an attractive option for owner operators, which may negatively impact our results of operations. If we are not able to maintain our delivery schedules due to a shortage of drivers or if we are required to increase our rates to offset increases in labor costs, our services may be less competitive, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, as these independent owner operators and individuals are third-party service providers, rather than our employees, they may decline loads of freight from time to time, which may impede our ability to deliver freight in a timely manner. If we fail to meet certain customer needs or incur increased expenses to do so, this could adversely affect the business, financial condition, and results of operations of our ArcBest segment.. We pay independent contractor drivers a fuel surcharge that increases with the increase in fuel prices. A significant increase or rapid fluctuation in fuel prices could cause the fuel surcharge we pay to independent contractors to be higher than the revenue we receive under our customer fuel surcharge programs, which could adversely impact the results of operations of our ArcBest segment.. Many states have initiated enforcement programs to evaluate the classification of independent contractors, and class actions and other lawsuits have arisen in our industry seeking to reclassify independent contractor drivers as employees for a variety of purposes, including workers' compensation, wage-and-hour, and health care coverage. There can be no assurance that legislative, judicial, or regulatory authorities will not introduce proposals or assert interpretations of existing rules and regulations resulting in the reclassification of the owner operators of the Expedite operations within our ArcBest segment as employees. In the event of such reclassification of our owner operators, we could be exposed to various liabilities and additional costs and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. These liabilities and additional costs could include exposure, for both future and prior periods, under federal, state, and local tax laws, and workers' compensation, unemployment benefits, labor, and employment laws, as well as potential liability for penalties and interest and under vicarious liability principles, which could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of our ArcBest segment.. 21. Table of Contents. Our business operations are subject to numerous governmental regulations, and costs of compliance with, or liability for violations of, existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Various federal and state agencies exercise broad regulatory powers over the transportation industry, generally governing such activities as operations of and authorization to engage in motor carrier freight transportation, operations of non-vessel-operating common carriers, operations of ocean freight forwarders and ocean transportation intermediaries, safety, contract compliance, insurance and bonding requirements, tariff and trade policies, customs, import and export, food safety, employment practices, licensing and registration, taxation, environmental matters, data privacy and security, and financial reporting. We could become subject to new or more restrictive regulations, such as regulations relating to engine emissions, drivers' hours of service, occupational safety and health, ergonomics, or cargo security. Increases in costs to comply with such regulations or the failure to comply, which could subject us to penalties or revocation of our permits or licenses, could increase our operating expenses or otherwise have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. Such regulations could also influence the demand for transportation services.. We operate in the United States pursuant to federal operating authority granted by the DOT. Our failures, or the failures of our contracted owner operators and third-party carriers, to comply with DOT safety regulations or downgrades in our safety rating could have a material adverse impact on our operations or financial condition. A downgrade in our safety rating could cause us to lose the ability to self-insure. The loss of our ability to self-insure for any significant period of time could materially increase insurance costs or we could experience difficulty in obtaining adequate levels of insurance coverage.. Our ArcBest segment utilizes third-party service providers who are subject to similar regulation requirements as previously mentioned. If the operations of these providers are impacted to the extent that a shortage of quality third-party service providers occurs, there could be a material adverse effect on our ArcBest segment's business and results of operations. Also, activities by these providers that violate applicable laws or regulations could result in government or third party actions against us. Although third-party service providers with whom we contract agree to abide by our policies and procedures, we may not be aware of, and may therefore be unable to remedy, violations by them.. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. The costs of compliance with existing and future environmental laws and regulations may be significant and could adversely impact our results of operations.. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling and transportation of hazardous materials and similar matters. We may transport or arrange for the transportation of hazardous materials and explosives, and we operate in industrial areas where service centers and other industrial activities are located and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination could occur. At certain facilities of our Asset-Based operations, we store fuel in underground and aboveground tanks and/or we operate with non-discharge certifications or stormwater permits under the federal Clean Water Act. We may be subject to substantial fines or civil penalties if we fail to obtain proper certifications or permits or if we do not comply with required testing provisions. Our operations involve the risks of, among others, fuel spillage or leakage, environmental damage, a spill or accident involving hazardous substances, and hazardous waste disposal. Under certain environmental laws, we could be subject to strict liability for any costs relating to contamination at our past or present facilities and at third-party waste disposal sites, as well as costs associated with the cleanup of accidents involving our vehicles. Although we have instituted programs to monitor and control environmental risks and promote compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, violations of applicable laws or regulations may subject us to cleanup costs and liabilities not covered by insurance or in excess of our applicable insurance coverage, including substantial fines, civil penalties, or civil and criminal liability, as well as bans on making future shipments in particular geographic areas, any of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. In addition, if any damage or injury occurs as a result of our transportation of hazardous materials or explosives, we may be subject to claims from third parties and bear liability for such damage or injury.. Concern over climate change, including the impact of global warming, has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit carbon and other greenhouse gas emissions, and some form of federal, state, or regional climate change legislation is possible in the future. We are unable to determine with any certainty the effects of any future climate change legislation. However, emission-related regulatory actions have historically resulted in increased costs of revenue equipment, diesel fuel, and equipment maintenance, and future legislation, if enacted, could impose substantial costs on us that may adversely impact our results of operations. Such regulatory actions have also required vendors to introduce. 22. Table of Contents. new engines, and the maintenance demands and reliability of vehicles equipped with these newly designed engines, as well as the residual values realized from the disposition of these vehicles, is uncertain. Such regulatory actions may also require changes in our operating practices and impair equipment productivity. We are also subject to increasing customer sensitivity to sustainability issues, and we may be subject to additional requirements related to customer-led initiatives or their efforts to comply with environmental programs. Until the timing, scope, and extent of any future regulation or customer requirements become known, we cannot predict their effect on our cost structure, business, or results of operations. Furthermore, although we are committed to mandatory and voluntary sustainability practices, increased awareness and any adverse publicity about greenhouse gas emissions emitted by companies in the transportation industry could harm our reputation or reduce customer demand for our services.. We may be unsuccessful in realizing all or any part of the anticipated benefits of any recent or future acquisitions.. As part of our long-term strategy to ensure we are positioned to serve our customers within the changing marketplace by providing a comprehensive suite of transportation and logistics services, we strategically invested in our ArcBest segment with the acquisitions of Logistics & Distribution Services, LLC, in 2016 and Smart Lines Transportation Group, LLC and Bear Transportation Services, L.P., in 2015. We continue to evaluate acquisition candidates and may acquire assets and businesses that we believe complement our existing assets and business or enhance our service offerings. The processes of evaluating acquisitions and performing due diligence procedures include risks which may adversely impact the success of our selection of candidates, pricing of the transaction, and ability to integrate critical functional areas of the acquired business. Further, we may not be able to acquire any additional companies at all or on terms favorable to us, even though we may have incurred expenses in evaluating and pursuing the strategic transactions.. Acquisitions may require substantial capital or the incurrence of substantial indebtedness or may involve the dilutive issuance of equity securities. If we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. We may be unable to generate sufficient revenue or earnings from the operation of an acquired business to offset our acquisition or investment costs. The degree of success of our acquisitions will depend, in part, on our ability to realize anticipated cost savings and growth opportunities. Our success in realizing these benefits and the timing of this realization depends, in part, upon the successful integration of any acquired businesses. The possible difficulties of integration include, among others:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tretention of customers, key employees, and third-party service providers;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcombining operations of the companies, including the integration of workforces at different locations while continuing to provide consistent, high-quality service to customers;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tunanticipated issues in the assimilation and consolidation of information technology, communications, and other systems, including additional systems training and other labor inefficiencies;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tconsolidation of corporate and administrative infrastructures;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties and costs of on-boarding employees to our policies, procedures, business culture, and benefits and compensation programs, which may be inconsistent with those of the acquired company;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties managing businesses that are outside our historical core competency;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinefficiencies and difficulties that arise because of unfamiliarity with potentially new markets or geographic areas and new assets and the businesses associated with them;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe effect on internal controls and compliance with the regulatory requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreased tax liability or other tax risk if future earnings are less than anticipated or there is a change in the tax deductibility of certain items; and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tother unanticipated issues, expenses, and liabilities, including previously unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business for which we have no recourse under applicable indemnification provisions.. The risks involved in successful integration could be heightened if we complete a large acquisition or multiple acquisitions within a short period of time. The diversion of management's attention from our current operations to the acquired operations and any difficulties encountered in combining operations, including underestimation of the resources required to support the acquisitions, could prevent us from realizing the full benefits anticipated from the acquisitions, and within the anticipated timeframe, and could adversely impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If acquired operations fail to generate sufficient cash flows, we may incur impairments of goodwill, intangibles, and other assets in the future.. 23. Table of Contents. We may not achieve some or all of the expected financial and operating benefits of our corporate restructuring and the restructuring may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.. Effective January 1, 2017, our new corporate structure was implemented to unify our sales, pricing, customer service, marketing, and capacity sourcing functions, allowing us to operate as one logistics provider under the ArcBest® brand, as previously discussed in Part I, Item 1 (Business) of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Implementation of the restructuring plan has been costly and disruptive to certain aspects of our business. We may incur additional, unexpected costs, and we may not be able to realize the long-term cost savings and benefits that were initially anticipated in connection with our restructuring. If we incur additional costs or fail to achieve some or all of the expected benefits of restructuring, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.. We could be obligated to make additional significant contributions to multiemployer pension plans.. ABF Freight System, Inc. and certain other subsidiaries reported in our Asset-Based operating segment (\"ABF Freight\") contribute to multiemployer pension and health and welfare plans to provide benefits for its contractual employees. ABF Freight's contributions generally are based on the time worked by its contractual employees in accordance with its collective bargaining agreement with the IBT and other related supplemental agreements.. The multiemployer plans to which ABF Freight contributes, which have been established pursuant to the Taft-Hartley Act, are jointly-trusteed (half of the trustees of each plan are selected by the participating employers, the other half by the IBT) and cover collectively-bargained employees of multiple unrelated employers. Due to the inherent nature of multiemployer pension plans, there are risks associated with participation in these plans that differ from single-employer plans. Assets received by the plans are not segregated by employer, and contributions made by one employer can be and are used to provide benefits to current and former employees of other employers. If a participating employer in a multiemployer pension plan no longer contributes to the plan, the unfunded obligations of the plan may be borne by the remaining participating employers. If a participating employer in a multiemployer pension plan completely withdraws from the plan, it owes to the plan its proportionate share of the plan's unfunded vested benefits, referred to as a withdrawal liability. A complete withdrawal generally occurs when the employer permanently ceases to have an obligation to contribute to the plan. Withdrawal liability is also owed in the event the employer withdraws from a plan in connection with a mass withdrawal, which generally occurs when all or substantially all employers withdraw from the plan pursuant to an agreement in a relatively short period of time. Were ABF Freight to completely withdraw from certain multiemployer pension plans, whether in connection with a mass withdrawal or otherwise, under current law, we would have material liabilities for our share of the unfunded vested liabilities of each such plan.. The 25 multiemployer pension plans to which ABF Freight contributes vary greatly in size and in funded status. ABF Freight's obligations to these plans are generally specified in the ABF NMFA, which was implemented on November 3, 2013 and will remain in effect through March 31, 2018. The funding obligations to the multiemployer pension plans are intended to satisfy the requirements imposed by PPA, which was permanently extended by the Reform Act under the CFCAA. Through the term of its current collective bargaining agreement, ABF Freight's obligations generally will be satisfied by making the specified contributions when due. However, we cannot determine with any certainty the contribution amounts that will be required under future collective bargaining agreements for ABF Freight's contractual employees.. Several of the multiemployer pension plans to which ABF Freight contributes are underfunded and, in some cases, significantly underfunded. The underfunded status of these plans developed over many years, and we believe that an improved funded status will also take time to be achieved, if it can be achieved at all. In addition, the highly competitive industry in which we operate could impact the viability of contributing employers. The reduction or loss of contributions by member employers, the impact of market risk or instability in the financial markets on plan assets and liabilities, and the effect of any one or combination of the aforementioned business risks, all of which are beyond our control, have the potential to adversely affect the funded status of the multiemployer pension plans, potential withdrawal liabilities, and our future contribution requirements.. Based on the most recent annual funding notices we have received, most of which are for plan years ended December 31, 2016, approximately 60% of ABF Freight's contributions to multiemployer pension plans are made to plans that are in \"critical and declining status\", including the Central States, Southeast and Southwest Areas Pension Plan (the \"Central States Pension Plan\"). \"Critical and declining status\" is applicable to critical status plans under the PPA that are projected to become insolvent anytime in the current plan year or during the next 14 plan years, or if the plan is projected to become. 24. Table of Contents. insolvent within the next 19 plan years and either the plan's ratio of inactive participants to active participants exceeds two to one or the plan's funded percentage is less than 80%. Approximately 1% of ABF Freight's contributions to multiemployer pension plans are made to plans that are in \"critical status\" (generally less than 65% funded) but not in \"critical and declining status\" and approximately 6% of its contributions are made to plans that are in \"endangered status\" (generally more than 65% but less than 80% funded), as defined by the PPA.. Approximately one-half of ABF Freight's multiemployer pension contributions are made to the Central States Pension Plan. The funded percentage of the Central States Pension Plan, as set forth in information provided by the Central States Pension Plan, was 37.8%, 42.1%, and 47.9% as of January 1, 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. In September 2015, the Central States Pension Plan filed an application with the Treasury Department seeking approval under the Reform Act for a pension rescue plan, which included benefit reductions for participants in the Central States Pension Plan in an attempt to avoid the insolvency of the plan that otherwise is projected by the plan to occur. In May 2016, the Treasury Department denied the Central States Pension Plan's proposed rescue plan. The trustees of the Central States Pension Plan subsequently announced that a new rescue plan would not be submitted and stated that it is not possible to develop and implement a new rescue plan that complies with the final Reform Act regulations issued by the Treasury Department on April 26, 2016. Although the future of the Central States Pension Plan is impacted by a number of factors, without legislative action, the plan is currently projected to become insolvent within 10 years or less. ABF Freight's current collective bargaining agreement with the IBT provides for contributions to the Central States Pension Plan through March 31, 2018, and it is ABF Freight's understanding that its contribution rate is not expected to increase during the remainder of this period (though there are no guarantees). ABF Freight's contribution rates are made in accordance with its collective bargaining agreements with the IBT and other related supplemental agreements. In consideration of high multiemployer plan contribution rates, several of the plans to which ABF Freight contributes, including the Central States Pension Plan, have frozen contribution rates at current levels under ABF Freight's current collective bargaining agreement. Future contribution rates will be determined through the negotiation process for contract periods following the term of the current collective bargaining agreement. ABF Freight pays some of the highest benefit contribution rates in the industry and continues to address the effect of the segment's wage and benefit cost structure on its operating results in discussions with the IBT. ABF Freight is currently negotiating with the IBT for a new collective bargaining agreement for the period subsequent to March 31, 2018, and cannot determine with any certainty the minimum contributions which will be required under future collective bargaining agreements or the impact they will have on our results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to litigation risks that could result in significant expenditures and have other material adverse effects on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. The nature of our business exposes us to the potential for various claims and litigation, including class-action litigation and other legal proceedings brought by customers, suppliers, employees, or other parties, related to labor and employment, competitive matters, personal injury, property damage, cargo claims, safety and contract compliance, environmental liability, and other matters. We are subject to risk and uncertainties related to liabilities, including damages, fines, penalties, and substantial legal and related costs, that may result from these claims and litigation. Some or all of our expenditures to defend, settle, or litigate these matters may not be covered by insurance or could impact our cost and ability to obtain insurance in the future. Also, litigation can be disruptive to normal business operations and could require a substantial amount of time and effort by our management team.  Any material litigation or a catastrophic accident or series of accidents could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our business reputation and our relationship with our customers, suppliers, and employees may also be adversely impacted by our involvement in legal proceedings.. We establish reserves based on our assessment of legal matters and contingencies. Subsequent developments related to legal claims asserted against us may affect our assessment and estimates of our recorded legal reserves and may require us to make payments in excess of our reserves, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. 25. Table of Contents. Our management team is an important part of our business and loss of key employees could impair our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. We benefit from the leadership and experience of our senior management team and other key employees and depend on their continued services to successfully implement our business strategy. The unexpected loss of key employees or inability to execute our training and succession planning strategies could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition if we are unable to secure replacement personnel that have sufficient experience in our industry and in the management of our business.. Our Credit Facility and accounts receivable securitization program contain customary financial and other customary restrictive covenants that may limit our future operations. A default under these financing arrangements or changes in regulations which impact the availability of funds or our costs to borrow under our financing arrangements could cause a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our Credit Agreement, which governs our Credit Facility, contains representations and warranties, conditions, and events of default that are customary for financings of this type including, but not limited to, a minimum interest coverage ratio, a maximum adjusted leverage ratio, and limitations on incurrence of debt, investments, liens on assets, certain sale and leaseback transactions, transactions with affiliates, mergers, consolidations, and sales of assets. Our accounts receivable securitization program also contains affirmative and negative covenants, and events of default that are customary for financings of this type, including a maximum adjusted leverage ratio and requirements to maintain certain characteristics of the receivables, such as rates of delinquency, default, and dilution.. If we default under the terms of the Credit Agreement or our accounts receivable securitization program and fail to obtain appropriate amendments to or waivers under the applicable financing arrangement, our borrowings under such facilities could be immediately declared due and payable. In the event of a default under either of these facilities, we could automatically default on the other of these facilities and on our outstanding notes payable and other financing agreements, unless the lenders to these facilities choose not to exercise remedies or to otherwise allow us to cure the default. If we fail to pay the amount due under our Credit Facility or accounts receivable securitization program, the lenders could proceed against the collateral by which our Credit Facility is secured, our borrowing capacity may be limited, or the facilities could be terminated. If acceleration of outstanding borrowings occurs or if the facilities are terminated, we may have difficulty borrowing additional funds sufficient to refinance the accelerated debt or entering into new credit or debt arrangements, and, if available, the terms of the financing may not be acceptable. A default under the Credit Agreement or accounts receivable securitization program, changes in regulations which impact the availability of funds or our costs to borrow under our financing arrangements, or our inability to renew our financing arrangements with terms that are acceptable to us, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition.. In addition, failing to achieve certain financial ratios as required by our Credit Facility and accounts receivable securitization program could adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, make strategic acquisitions or investments, or plan for or react to market conditions or otherwise execute our business strategies.. We have significant ongoing capital requirements that could have a material adverse effect on our business, profitability, and growth if we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations or obtain sufficient financing on favorable terms or properly forecast capital needs to correspond with business volumes.. We have significant ongoing capital requirements. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash from operations in the future, our growth could be limited; it may be necessary for us to utilize our existing financing arrangements to a greater extent or enter into additional financing or leasing arrangements, possibly on less favorable terms; or our revenue equipment may have to be held for longer periods, which would result in increased expenditures for maintenance. Forecasting business volumes involves many factors, including general economic trends and the impact of competition, which are subject to uncertainty and beyond our control. If we do not accurately forecast our future capital investment needs, especially for revenue equipment, in relation to corresponding business levels, we could have excess capacity or insufficient capacity. In addition, our Credit Facility contains provisions that could limit our level of annual capital expenditures. If we were unable to properly forecast capital needs and/or were unable to generate sufficient cash from operations, obtain adequate financing at acceptable terms, or if our capital spending was otherwise limited, there could be an adverse effect on our business, profitability, and growth.. 26. Table of Contents. Claims expenses or the cost of maintaining our insurance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Claims may be asserted against us for accidents or for cargo loss or damage, property damage, personal injury, and workers' compensation occurring in our operations. Claims may also be asserted against us for accidents involving the operations of third-party service providers that we utilize for our Asset-Light businesses, for our actions in retaining their services, or for loss or damage to our customers' goods for which we are determined to be responsible. Such claims against us may not be covered by insurance policies or may exceed the amount of insurance coverage, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We have established liabilities which are adjusted to reflect our claims experience; however, actual claims costs and legal expenses may exceed our estimates. If the frequency and/or severity of claims increase, our operating results could be adversely affected. The timing of the incurrence of these costs could significantly and adversely impact our operating results. We are primarily self-insured for workers' compensation, third-party casualty loss, and cargo loss and damage claims for the operations of our Asset-Based segment and certain of our other subsidiaries. We also self-insure for medical benefits for our eligible nonunion personnel. Because we self-insure for a significant portion of our claims exposure and related expenses, our insurance and claims expense may be volatile. If we lose our ability to self-insure for any significant period of time, insurance costs could materially increase and we could experience difficulty in obtaining adequate levels of insurance coverage in that event. Our self-insurance program for third-party casualty claims is conducted under a federal program administered by a government agency. If the government were to terminate the program or if we were to be excluded from the program, our insurance costs could increase. Additionally, if our third-party insurance carriers or underwriters leave the trucking sector, it could materially increase our insurance costs or collateral requirements, or create difficulties in finding insurance in excess of our self-insured retention limits. We could also experience additional increases in our insurance premiums or deductibles in the future due to market conditions or if our claims experience worsens. If our insurance or claims expense increases, or if we decide to increase our insurance coverage in the future, and we are unable to offset any increase in expense with higher revenues, our earnings could be adversely affected. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Significant increases in health care costs related to medical inflation, claims experience, current and future federal and state laws and regulations, and other cost components that are beyond our control could significantly increase the costs of our self-insured medical plans and postretirement medical costs, or require us to adjust the level of benefits offered to our employees. In particular, with the passage in 2010 of the U.S. Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the \"PPACA\"), we are required to provide health care benefits to all full-time employees that meet certain minimum requirements of coverage and affordability, or otherwise be subject to a payment per employee based on the affordability criteria set forth in the PPACA. Many of these requirements have been phased in over time; the majority of the provisions that impact us the most became effective during 2015. The PPACA also requires individuals to obtain coverage or face individual penalties, so employees who are currently eligible but have elected not to participate in our health care plans may ultimately find it more advantageous to do so. In general, implementing the requirements of health care reform has imposed additional administrative costs. The costs of maintaining and monitoring compliance and reports and other effects of these new healthcare requirements, including any failure to comply, may significantly increase our health care coverage costs and could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in healthcare legislation could potentially occur in the near term, which could result in changes to healthcare eligibility, design, and cost structure that could have an adverse impact on our business and operating costs; however, we cannot currently determine the impact of future regulatory action on our health care plans and the related costs.. We have programs in place with multiple surety companies for the issuance of unsecured surety bonds in support of our self-insurance program for workers' compensation and third-party casualty liability. Estimates made by the states and the surety companies of our future exposure for our self-insurance liabilities could influence the amount and cost of additional letters of credit and surety bonds required to support our self-insurance program, and we may be required to maintain secured surety bonds in the future which could increase the amount of our cash equivalents and short-term investments restricted for use and unavailable for operational or capital requirements.. 27. Table of Contents. We depend heavily on the availability of fuel for our trucks. Fuel shortages, changes in fuel prices, and the inability to collect fuel surcharges could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.. The transportation industry is dependent upon the availability of adequate fuel supplies. A disruption in our fuel supply resulting from natural or man-made disasters; armed conflicts; terrorist attacks; actions by producers, including a decrease in drilling activity or the use of crude oil and oil reserves for purposes other than fuel production; or other political, economic, and market factors that are beyond our control could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. We maintain fuel storage and pumping facilities at our distribution centers and certain other service centers; however, we may experience shortages in the availability of fuel at certain locations and may be forced to incur additional expense to ensure adequate supply on a timely basis to prevent a disruption to our service schedules.. Fuel represents a significant operating expense for us, and we do not have any long-term fuel purchase contracts or any hedging arrangements to protect against fuel price increases. Fuel prices fluctuate greatly due to factors beyond our control, such as global supply and demand for crude oil, political events, price and supply decisions by oil producing countries and cartels, terrorist activities, and hurricanes and other natural or man-made disasters; and fuel prices have fluctuated significantly in recent years. Significant increases in fuel prices or fuel taxes resulting from these or other economic or regulatory changes which are not offset by base freight rate increases or fuel surcharges could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. Our Asset-Based segment and the Expedite and Truckload-Dedicated operations of our ArcBest segment assess a fuel surcharge based on an index of national diesel fuel prices. Although revenues from fuel surcharges generally offset increases in direct diesel fuel costs, we incur certain fuel costs that cannot be recovered with fuel surcharges, and other operating costs have been, and may continue to be, impacted by fluctuating fuel prices. The total impact of energy prices on other nonfuel-related expenses is difficult to ascertain. We cannot predict, with reasonable certainty, future fuel price fluctuations, the impact of energy prices on other cost elements, recoverability of fuel costs through fuel surcharges, and the effect of fuel surcharges on our overall rate structure or the total price that we will receive from our customers. Whether fuel prices fluctuate or remain constant, operating results may be adversely affected if competitive pressures limit our ability to recover fuel surcharges. Throughout 2017, the fuel surcharge mechanism generally continued to have market acceptance among our customers; however, certain nonstandard pricing arrangements have limited the amount of fuel surcharge recovered. The negative impact on operating margins of capped fuel surcharge revenue during periods of increasing fuel costs is more evident when fuel prices remain above the maximum levels recovered through the fuel surcharge mechanism on certain accounts. Also, because our fuel surcharge recovery lags behind changes in fuel prices, our fuel surcharge recovery may not capture in any particular period the increased costs we pay for fuel, especially in periods in which fuel prices rapidly increase. In periods of declining fuel prices, our fuel surcharge percentages also decrease, which negatively impacts our revenues, and the revenue decline may be disproportionate to the corresponding decline in our fuel costs. While the fuel surcharge is one of several components in our overall rate structure, the actual rate paid by customers is governed by market forces and the overall value of services provided to the customer. When fuel surcharges constitute a higher proportion of the total freight rate paid, our customers are less receptive to increases in base freight rates. Prolonged periods of inadequate base rate improvements could adversely impact operating results as elements of costs, including contractual wage rates, continue to increase. Further, during periods of low freight volumes, shippers can use their negotiating leverage to impose less compensatory fuel surcharge policies.. Higher fuel prices cause customers of our FleetNet segment to seek cost savings throughout their businesses which may result in a reduction of miles driven and/or a deferral of maintenance practices that may reduce the volume of our maintenance service events, resulting in an adverse impact on the segment's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Increased prices for, or decreases in the availability of, new revenue equipment and decreases in the value of used revenue equipment, as well as higher costs of equipment-related operating expenses, could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.. In recent years, manufacturers have raised the prices of new revenue equipment significantly due to increased costs of materials and, in part, to offset their costs of compliance with new tractor engine and emissions system design requirements intended to reduce emissions, which have been mandated by the EPA, the NHTSA, and various state agencies such as those described in \"Environmental and Other Government Regulations\" within Part I, Item 1 (Business) of this Annual. 28. Table of Contents. Report on Form 10-K. Greenhouse gas emissions regulations are likely to continue to impact the design and cost of equipment utilized in our operations as well as fuel costs. A number of states have mandated, and California and certain other states may continue to individually mandate, additional emission-control requirements for equipment which could increase equipment and fuel costs for entire fleets that operate in interstate commerce. If new equipment prices increase more than anticipated, we could incur higher depreciation and rental expenses than anticipated. Our third-party capacity providers, including owner operators of the Expedite operations of our ArcBest segment, are also subject to increased regulations and higher equipment and fuel prices which will, in turn, increase our costs for utilizing their services or may cause certain providers to exit the industry which could lead to a capacity shortage and further increase our costs of securing third-party services. If we are unable to fully offset any such increases in expenses with freight rate increases and/or improved fuel economy, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. Reduced fuel demand due to improved fuel economy may result in legislative efforts to increase fuel taxes which, if enacted, could increase our costs. If we are not able to adequately increase our freight rates, recover fuel surcharges, or recognize fuel economy savings to offset increases in equipment and maintenance costs, and if we are not able to offset fuel tax increases through reductions in other excise taxes or through increases in the rates we charge our customers, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected.. We may face difficulty in purchasing new equipment due to decreased supply. From time to time, some original equipment manufacturers (\"OEMs\") of tractors and trailers may reduce their manufacturing output due to, for example, lower demand for their products in economic downturns or a shortage of component parts. Component suppliers may either reduce production or be unable to increase production to meet OEM demand, creating periodic difficulty for OEMs to react in a timely manner to increased demand for new equipment and/or increased demand for replacement components as economic conditions change. At times, market forces may create market situations in which demand outstrips supply. In those situations, we may face reduced supply levels and/or increased acquisition costs. An inability to continue to obtain an adequate supply of new tractors or trailers for our Asset-Based operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. During prolonged periods of decreased business levels, we and other trucking companies may make strategic fleet reductions, which could result in an increase in the supply of used equipment. When the supply exceeds the demand for used revenue equipment, the general market value of used revenue equipment decreases. Used equipment prices are also subject to substantial fluctuations based on availability of financing and commodity prices for scrap metal. If market prices for used revenue equipment decline, corresponding decreases in our established salvage values on equipment being used in our Asset-Based operations would increase our depreciation expense, and we could incur impairment losses on assets held for sale which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our total assets include goodwill and intangibles. If we determine that these items have become impaired in the future, our earnings could be adversely affected.. As of December 31, 2017, we had recorded goodwill of $108.3 million and intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, of $73.5 million. Our goodwill and intangible assets resulted primarily from acquisitions in the ArcBest segment. Our annual impairment evaluations of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets in 2017, 2016, and 2015 produced no indication of impairment of the recorded balances. However, significant declines in business levels or other changes in cash flow assumptions or other factors that negatively impact the fair value of the operations of our reporting units could result in impairment and a resulting non-cash write-off of a significant portion of our goodwill and intangible assets, which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our corporate reputation and our business depend on a variety of intellectual property rights, including trademarks, domain names, trade secrets, copyrights, patents, and licenses and other contractual rights.  If we are unable to maintain our corporate reputation, our brands, and other intellectual property rights, or if we face claims of infringement of third-party rights, our business may suffer.  The costs and resources expended to enforce or protect our rights or to defend against infringement claims could adversely impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. ArcBest is recognized as a multi-faceted logistics provider with creative problem solvers who deliver integrated logistics solutions. Beyond this fundamental marketplace recognition of our collective brand identity, our other key brands represent additional unique value in their target markets. The ABF Freight brand is well-recognized in the industry for our Asset-Based operations' leadership in commitment to quality, customer service, safety, and technology. The Panther Premium. 29. Table of Contents. Logistics brand within the operations of our ArcBest segment is recognized for solving the toughest shipping and logistics challenges, delivering time-sensitive, mission-critical, and high-value freight with speed and precision. Our business depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the image of our brands. Service, performance, and safety issues, whether actual or perceived and whether as a result of our actions or those of our third-party contract carriers and their drivers and owner operators or other third-party service providers, could adversely impact our customers' image of our brands, including ArcBest, ABF Freight, Panther Premium Logistics, and U - Pack, and result in the loss of business or impede our growth initiatives. Adverse publicity regarding labor relations, legal matters, environmental concerns, and similar matters, whether or not justified, could have a negative impact on our reputation and may result in the loss of customers and our inability to secure new customer relationships. Our business and our image could also be negatively impacted by a breach of our corporate policies by employees or vendors. With the increased use of social media outlets, adverse publicity can be disseminated quickly and broadly, making it increasingly difficult for us to effectively respond. Damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our services and thus have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brands.. We have registered or are pursuing registration of various marks and designs as trademarks in the United States, including but not limited to \"ArcBest,\" \"ABF Freight,\" \"FleetNet America,\" \"Panther Premium Logistics,\" \"U-Pack,\" and \"The Skill & The Will.\"  For some marks, we also have registered or are pursuing registration in certain other countries. At times, competitors may adopt service or trade names or logos or designs similar to ours, thereby impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to market confusion. In addition, there could be potential trade name or trademark infringement claims brought by owners of other registered trademarks or trademarks that incorporate variations of our registered trademarks. From time to time, we have acquired or attempted to acquire internet domain names held by others when such names have caused consumer confusion or had the potential to cause consumer confusion. Additionally, our business and operations utilize and depend upon both internally developed and purchased technology, either of which could be infringed upon, or subject to claims of infringement.  Any of our intellectual property rights related to trademarks, trade secrets, domain names, copyrights, patents, or other intellectual property, whether owned or licensed, could be challenged or invalidated, or misappropriated or infringed upon, by third parties. Our efforts to obtain, enforce, or protect our proprietary rights, or to defend against a third-party infringement claim, may be ineffective and could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could adversely impact our corporate reputation, business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Our results of operations could be impacted by seasonal fluctuations, adverse weather conditions, and natural disasters.. Our operations are impacted by seasonal fluctuations which affect tonnage and shipment levels and, consequently, revenues and operating results. Freight shipments and operating costs of our Asset-Based and ArcBest operating segments can be adversely affected by inclement weather conditions. The first quarter of each year generally has the lowest tonnage levels, although other factors, including the state of the U.S. and global economies, may influence quarterly freight tonnage levels. At the same time, first quarter operating expenses may increase due to, among other things, a decline in fuel economy because of higher fuel density in colder temperatures, higher accident frequency, increased claims, and potentially higher equipment repair expenditures caused by harsh weather. ArcBest segment operations are influenced by seasonal fluctuations that impact customers' supply chains and the resulting demand for expedited services. Expedite shipments of our ArcBest segment may decline due to post-holiday slowdowns during winter months and plant shutdowns during summer months. Emergency roadside service events of the FleetNet segment are influenced by seasonal variations, and service event volume is generally lower during mild weather conditions. Business levels of the household goods moving services provided by our ArcBest segment are generally lower in the non-summer months when demand for moving services is typically lower. In addition to the impact of weather on seasonal business trends, severe weather events and natural disasters, such as harsh winter weather, floods, hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, or lightning strikes, could disrupt our operations or the operations of our customers, destroy our assets, affect regional economies, or disrupt fuel supplies or increase fuel costs, each of which could adversely affect our business levels and operating results. Climate change may have an influence on the severity of weather conditions, which could adversely affect our freight shipments and business levels and, consequently, our operating results.. 30. Table of Contents. We are subject to certain risks arising from our international business.. We provide transportation and logistics services to and from international locations and are, therefore, subject to risks of international business, including, but not limited to, changes in the economic strength of certain foreign countries; social, political, and economic instability; the ability to secure space or services from third-party aircraft, ocean vessels, and other modes of transportation or suppliers; burdens of complying with a wide variety of international and United States regulations, including export and import laws as well as different liability standards and less developed legal systems; difficulties in enforcing contractual obligations and intellectual property rights; and changes in foreign exchange rates. Additional risks associated with our international business include restrictive trade policies and imposition of duties, taxes, or government royalties imposed by foreign governments, and changes in international tax laws and regulations. In addition, natural disasters, pandemics, acts of terrorism, and insurrections could impede our ability to provide satisfactory services to customers in international locations.. We are also subject to compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\") and hold Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (\"C-TPAT\") status for businesses within our Asset-Based and ArcBest segments. Failure to comply with the FCPA and local regulations in the conduct of our international business operations may result in criminal and civil penalties against us. If we are unable to maintain our C-TPAT status, we may face a loss of certain business due to customer requirements to deal only with C-TPAT participating carriers, because of the enhanced levels of supply chain security provided by participating in the C-TPAT program. In addition, loss of C-TPAT status may result in significant border delays, which could cause our international operations to be less efficient than competitors also operating internationally.. We operate in various Canadian provinces pursuant to operating authority granted by the Ministries of Transportation and Communications in such provinces, and we operate in Mexico by utilizing third-party carriers within the country. If the United States withdraws from or materially modifies the North American Free Trade Agreement (\"NAFTA\") or certain other international trade agreements or border policies, there could be more restrictive trade policies or increased regulatory complexities, which may result in increased costs and/or a reduction in the volume of freight shipped by our customers. Any such changes in trade policies and corresponding actions by other countries could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Our business could be harmed by antiterrorism measures.. As a result of actual or threatened terrorist attacks on the United States, federal, state, and municipal authorities have implemented, continue to implement, and may implement in the future various security measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large trucks. Although many companies would be adversely affected by any slowdown in the availability of freight transportation, the negative impact could affect our business disproportionately. For example, we offer specialized services that guarantee on-time delivery. If security measures disrupt the timing of deliveries, we could fail to meet the needs of our customers or could incur increased costs in order to do so. Additional security measures may also reduce productivity of our drivers and third-party transportation service providers, which would increase our operating costs. There can be no assurance regarding the implementation of new antiterrorism measures and such new measures may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.. 31. Table of Contents"                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
