[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS.. Our business involves certain risks and uncertainties. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, we may face other risks and uncertainties, some of which may be unknown to us and some of which we may deem immaterial and the following review of important risk factors should not be construed as exhaustive and should be read in conjunction with other cautionary statements that are included herein or elsewhere. If one or more of these risks or uncertainties occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. Risks Related to Emergence from Bankruptcy Protection. Information contained in our historical financial statements is not be comparable to the information contained in our financial statements after the application of fresh start accounting.. Following the consummation of the Plan, our financial condition and results of operations from and after the Effective Date are not be comparable to the financial condition or results of operations in our historical financial statements.  As a result of our restructuring under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, our financial statements are subject to fresh start accounting provisions of generally accepted accounting principles (\"GAAP\").  In the application of fresh start accounting, we allocated our reorganization value to the fair value of assets and liabilities in conformity with the guidance for the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations.  Adjustments to the carrying amounts were material and will affect prospective results of operations as balance sheet items are settled, depreciated, amortized or impaired.  This will make it difficult for stockholders to assess our performance in relation to prior periods.  Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2016 reflects the consummation of the Plan and the adoption of fresh start accounting effective October 1, 2016.. Risks Related to Our Operations. Coal prices are subject to change based on a number of factors and can be volatile.  Within the last several years, coal prices have experienced an historic level of depression. If there is a decline in prices, it could materially and adversely affect our profitability and the value of our coal reserves.. Our profitability and the value of our coal reserves depend upon the prices we receive for our coal. The contract prices we may receive in the future for coal depend upon factors beyond our control, including the following:. • the domestic and foreign supply of and demand for coal;. • the domestic and foreign demand for electricity and steel;. • the quantity and quality of coal available from competitors;. • competition for production of electricity from non-coal sources, including the price and availability of alternative fuels;. • domestic and foreign air emission standards for coal-fueled power plants and the ability of coal-fueled power plants to meet these standards;. • adverse weather, climatic or other natural conditions, including unseasonable weather patterns;. • domestic and foreign economic conditions, including economic slowdowns and the exchange rate of U.S. dollars for foreign currency;. • domestic and foreign legislative, regulatory and judicial developments, environmental regulatory changes or changes in energy policy and energy conservation measures that would adversely affect the coal industry, such as legislation limiting carbon emissions or providing for increased funding and incentives for alternative energy sources;. • the proximity to, capacity of and cost of transportation and port facilities;. • market price fluctuations for sulfur dioxide or nitric oxide emission allowances; and. • technological advancements, including those related to alternative energy sources, those intended to convert coal-to-liquids or gas and those aimed at capturing, using and storing carbon dioxide.. Declines in the prices we receive for our future coal sales contracts, could materially and adversely affect us by decreasing our profitability, cash flows, liquidity and the value of our coal reserves.. 33. Table of Contents. Unfavorable economic and market conditions have adversely affected and may continue to affect our revenues and profitability.. Our profitability depends, in large part, on conditions in the markets that we serve, which fluctuate in response to various factors beyond our control. The prices at which we sell our coal are largely dependent on prevailing market prices. We have experienced significant price pressure at times during the past several years as the demand for, and price of, coal has been subject to pressure for a variety of reasons, including reductions in domestic and international demand for metallurgical and thermal coal.. Global economic downturns have also had and in the future could have a negative impact on us. These conditions have, in the past, led to extreme volatility of prices, severely limited liquidity and credit availability, and resulted in declining valuations of assets. If there are downturns in economic conditions, our customers' and our businesses, financial conditions or results of operations could be adversely affected. Furthermore, because we typically seek to enter into long-term arrangements for the sale of a substantial portion of our coal, the average sales price we receive for our coal may lag behind any general economic recovery.  We are focused on cost control and capital discipline, but there can be no assurance that these actions, or any other actions that we may take, will be sufficient to offset any adverse effect these conditions may have on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Competition could put downward pressure on coal prices and, as a result, materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability.. We compete with numerous other domestic and foreign coal producers for domestic and international sales. Overcapacity and increased production within the coal industry, both domestically and internationally, and decelerating steel demand in Asia have at times, and could in the future, materially reduce coal prices and therefore materially reduce our revenues and profitability.  Potential changes to international trade agreements, trade concessions or other political and economic arrangements may benefit coal producers operating in countries other than the United States.  We may not be able to compete on the basis of price or other factors with companies that in the future benefit from favorable foreign trade policies or other arrangements.  In addition, our ability to ship our coal to international customers depends on port capacity, which is limited. Increased competition within the coal industry for international sales could result in us not being able to obtain throughput capacity at port facilities, or the rates for such throughput capacity to increase to a point where it is not economically feasible to export our coal.. The domestic coal industry has experienced consolidation in recent years, including consolidation among some of our major competitors.  In addition, substantial overcapacity exists in the coal industry and several other large coal companies have also filed, and others may file, bankruptcy proceedings which could enable them to lower their productions costs and thereby reduce the price for coal.  Consolidation in the coal industry or current or future bankruptcy proceedings of our coal competitors could adversely affect our competitive position.. In addition to competing with other coal producers, we compete generally with producers of other fuels, such as natural gas. Natural gas pricing has declined significantly in recent years. The decline in the price of natural gas has caused demand for coal to decrease and adversely affect the price of our coal. Sustained periods of low natural gas prices have also contributed to utilities phasing out or closing existing coal-fired power plants and continued low prices could reduce or eliminate construction of any new coal-fired power plants. This trend has, and could continue to have, a material adverse effect on demand and prices for our coal.. 34. Table of Contents. Any decrease in the coal consumption of electric power generators could result in less demand and lower prices for coal, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.. Thermal coal accounted for 93% of our coal sales by volume during 2017. The majority of these sales were to electric power generators. The amount of coal consumed for electric power generation is affected primarily by the overall demand for electricity, the availability, quality and price of competing fuels (particularly, natural gas) for power generation and governmental regulations which may dictate an alternate source of fuel regardless of economics.  Overall economic activity and the associated demands for power by industrial users can have significant effects on overall electricity demand and can be caused by a number of factors.  An economic slowdown can significantly slow the growth of electricity demand and could result in reduced demand for coal.  For example, declines in the rate of international economic growth in countries such as China, India or other developing countries could further negatively impact the demand for U.S. coal and result in a continuing oversupply of coal in the marketplace.  Weather patterns can also greatly affect electricity demand.  Extreme temperatures, both hot and cold, cause increased power usage and, therefore, increase generating requirements from all sources.  Mild temperatures, on the other hand, result in lower electrical demand, which allow generators to choose the source of power generation when deciding which generation source to dispatch.. Gas-fueled generation has the potential to displace coal-fueled generation, particularly from older, less efficient coal-powered generators and this has occurred to date. We expect that many of the new power plants needed in the United States to meet increasing demand for electricity generation will be fueled by natural gas because gas-fired plants are cheaper to construct and permits to construct these plants are easier to obtain as natural gas is seen as having a lower environmental impact than coal-fueled generation. In addition, state and federal mandates for increased use of electricity from renewable energy sources also have an impact on the market for our coal. Several states have enacted legislative mandates requiring electricity suppliers to use renewable energy sources to generate a certain percentage of power. There have been numerous proposals to establish a similar uniform, national standard although none of these proposals have been enacted to date. Possible advances in technologies and incentives, such as tax credits, to enhance the economics of renewable energy sources could make these sources more competitive with coal. Any reduction in the amount of coal consumed by electric power generators could reduce the price of coal that we mine and sell, thereby reducing our revenues and materially and adversely affecting our business and results of operations.. Our coal mining operations are subject to operating risks that are beyond our control, which could result in materially increased operating expenses and decreased production levels and could materially and adversely affect our profitability.. We mine coal at underground and surface mining operations. Certain factors beyond our control, including those listed below, could disrupt our coal mining operations, adversely affect production and shipments and increase our operating costs:. • poor mining conditions resulting from geological, hydrologic or other conditions that may cause instability of highwalls or spoil piles or cause damage to nearby infrastructure or mine personnel;. • a major incident at the mine site that causes all or part of the operations of the mine to cease for some period of time;. • mining, processing and plant equipment failures and unexpected maintenance problems;. • adverse weather and natural disasters, such as heavy rains or snow, flooding and other natural events affecting operations, transportation or customers;. • the unavailability of raw materials, equipment (including heavy mobile equipment) or other critical supplies such as tires, explosives, fuel, lubricants and other consumables of the type, quantity and/or size needed to meet production expectations;. • unexpected or accidental surface subsidence from underground mining;. • accidental mine water discharges, fires, explosions or similar mining accidents;. • delays or closures by third-party transportation on coal shipments; and. • competition and/or conflicts with other natural resource extraction activities and production within our operating areas, such as coalbed methane extraction or oil and gas development.. If any of these conditions or events occurs, particularly at our Black Thunder or Leer mining complexes, which accounted for approximately 75% of the coal volume we sold and 57% of the revenue we generated in 2017, our coal mining operations may be disrupted and we could experience a delay or halt of production or shipments or our operating costs could increase significantly. In addition, if our insurance coverage is limited or excludes certain of these conditions or events, then we may not be able to recover any of the losses we may incur as a result of such conditions or events, some of which may be substantial.. 35. Table of Contents. A decline in demand for metallurgical coal would limit our ability to sell our coal into higher-priced metallurgical markets and could substantially affect our business.. Portions of our coal reserves possess quality characteristics that enable us to mine, process and market them as either metallurgical coal or high quality steam coal, depending on the prevailing conditions in the metallurgical and steam coal markets. We decide whether to mine, process and market these coals as metallurgical or steam coal based on management's assessment as to which market is likely to provide us with a higher margin. We consider a number of factors when making this assessment, including the difference between the current and anticipated future market prices of steam coal and metallurgical coal and the increased costs incurred in producing coal for sale in the metallurgical market instead of the steam market. A decline in prices in the metallurgical market relative to the steam market could cause us, as well as our competitors, to shift coal from the metallurgical market to the steam market, thereby reducing our revenues and profitability and increasing the availability of coal to customers in the steam market.. Our inability to acquire additional coal reserves or our inability to develop coal reserves in an economically feasible manner may adversely affect our business.. Our profitability depends substantially on our ability to mine and process, in a cost-effective manner, coal reserves that possess the quality characteristics desired by our customers. As we mine, our coal reserves decline. As a result, our future success depends upon our ability to acquire additional coal that is economically recoverable. If we fail to acquire or develop additional coal reserves, our existing reserves will eventually be depleted. We may not be able to obtain replacement reserves when we require them. If available, replacement reserves may not be available at favorable prices, or we may not be capable of mining those reserves at costs that are comparable with our existing coal reserves.  In certain locations, leases for oil, natural gas and coalbed methane reserves are located on, or adjacent to, some of our reserves, potentially creating conflicting interests between us and lessees of those interests.  Other lessees' rights relating to these mineral interests could prevent, delay or increase the cost of developing our coal reserves.  These lessees may also seek damages from us based on claims that our coal mining operations impair their interests.. Our ability to obtain coal reserves in the future could also be limited by the availability of cash we generate from our operations or available financing, restrictions under our existing or future financing arrangements, competition from other coal producers, the lack of suitable acquisition or lease-by-application, or LBA, opportunities or the inability to acquire coal properties or LBAs on commercially reasonable terms.  Increased opposition from non-governmental organizations and other third parties may also lengthen, delay or adversely impact the LBA process.  If we are unable to acquire replacement reserves, our future production may decrease significantly and our operating results may be negatively affected. In addition, we may not be able to mine future reserves as profitably as we do at our current operations.. In January 2016, the federal government imposed a moratorium on new leases for coal mined from federal lands as part of a review of the government's management of federally-owned coal.  In March 2017, the U.S. Secretary of Interior signed Secretarial Order 3348 lifting that moratorium and halting the Federal Coal Program Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement that was in process at the time.  Litigation is currently pending in the United States District Court for the District of Montana challenging the lifting of the moratorium as a violation of the National Environmental Policy Act, the Mineral Leasing Act and the Federal Land Policy and Management Act.  Although the Bureau of Land Management is now working to process coal lease applications and modifications expeditiously in accordance with regulations and guidance that existed before Secretarial Order 3338, which imposed the moratorium on new coal leases, any delay in the LBA process, including any delay caused by the now-lifted moratorium could prevent us from obtaining replacement reserves when we require them.  Also, the outcome of the government's review is uncertain and could have a material and adverse impact on our business in any number of ways including by limiting our ability to mine reserves under ongoing or future applications, by increasing the costs or timeframe associated with obtaining leases under the LBA program, by making it uneconomical for us to participate in the programs or by preventing us from obtaining replacement reserves if the LBA program were to be terminated.. Inaccuracies in our estimates of our coal reserves could result in decreased profitability from lower than expected revenues or higher than expected costs.. Our future performance depends on, among other things, the accuracy of our estimates of our proven and probable coal reserves. We base our estimates of reserves on engineering, economic and geological data assembled, analyzed and reviewed by internal and third-party engineers and consultants. We update our estimates of the quantity and quality of proven and probable coal reserves annually to reflect the production of coal from the reserves, updated geological models and mining recovery data, the tonnage contained in new lease areas acquired and estimated costs of production and sales prices. There are numerous factors and assumptions inherent in estimating the quantities and qualities of, and costs to mine, coal reserves, including many factors beyond our control, including the following:. 36. Table of Contents. • quality of the coal;. • geological and mining conditions, which may not be fully identified by available exploration data and/or may differ from our experiences in areas where we currently mine;. • the percentage of coal ultimately recoverable;. • the assumed effects of regulation, including the issuance of required permits, taxes, including severance and excise taxes and royalties, and other payments to governmental agencies;. • assumptions concerning the timing for the development of the reserves;. • assumptions concerning physical access to the reserves; and. • assumptions concerning equipment and productivity, future coal prices, operating costs, including for critical supplies such as fuel, tires and explosives, capital expenditures and development and reclamation costs.. As a result, estimates of the quantities and qualities of economically recoverable coal attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery, estimated cost of production, and estimates of future net cash flows expected from these properties as prepared by different engineers, or by the same engineers at different times, may vary materially due to changes in the above factors and assumptions. Actual production recovered from identified reserve areas and properties, and revenues and expenditures associated with our mining operations, may vary materially from estimates. Any inaccuracy in our estimates related to our reserves could result in decreased profitability from lower than expected revenues and/or higher than expected costs.. Failure to obtain or renew surety bonds on acceptable terms could affect our ability to secure reclamation and coal lease obligations and, therefore, our ability to mine or lease coal which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Federal and state laws require us to obtain surety bonds or post letters of credit to secure performance or payment of certain long-term obligations, such as mine closure or reclamation costs, federal and state workers' compensation costs, coal leases and other obligations. The costs of surety bonds have fluctuated in recent years while the market terms of such bonds have generally become more unfavorable to mine operators. These changes in the terms of the bonds have been accompanied at times by a decrease in the number of companies willing to issue surety bonds. In addition, federal and state regulators are considering making financial assurance requirements with respect to mine closure and reclamation more stringent.  Because we are required by state and federal law to have these bonds in place before mining can commence or continue, our failure to maintain surety bonds, letters of credit or other guarantees or security arrangements would materially and adversely affect our ability to mine or lease coal.. Increases in the costs of mining and other industrial supplies, including steel-based supplies, diesel fuel and rubber tires, or the inability to obtain a sufficient quantity of those supplies, could negatively affect our operating costs or disrupt or delay our production.. Our coal mining operations use significant amounts of steel, diesel fuel, explosives, rubber tires and other mining and industrial supplies. The cost of roof bolts we use in our underground mining operations depends on the price of scrap steel. We also use significant amounts of diesel fuel and tires for trucks and other heavy machinery, particularly at our Black Thunder mining complex. There has been some consolidation in the supplier base providing mining materials to the coal industry, such as with suppliers of explosives in the U.S. and both surface and underground equipment globally, that has limited the number of sources for these materials.  In situations where we have chosen to concentrate a large portion of purchases with one supplier, it has been to take advantage of cost savings from larger volumes of purchases and to ensure security of supply.  If the prices of mining and other industrial supplies, particularly steel based supplies, diesel fuel and rubber tires, increase, our operating costs could be negatively affected. In addition, if we are unable to procure these supplies, our coal mining operations may be disrupted or we could experience a delay or halt in our production.. Our profitability depends upon the coal supply agreements we have with our customers. Changes in purchasing patterns in the coal industry could make it difficult for us to extend our existing coal supply agreements or to enter into new agreements in the future.. The success of our businesses depends on our ability to retain our current customers, renew our existing customer contracts and solicit new customers. Our ability to do so generally depends on a variety of factors, including the quality and price of our products, our ability to market these products effectively, our ability to deliver on a timely basis and the level of competition that we face. If current customers do not honor current contract commitments, or if they terminate agreements or exercise force majeure provisions allowing for the temporary suspension of performance, our revenues will be adversely affected. Changes in the coal industry may cause some of our customers not to renew, extend or enter into new coal supply agreements or enter into agreements to purchase fewer tons of coal or on different terms or prices than in the past. In addition,. 37. Table of Contents. uncertainty caused by federal and state regulations, including the U.S. Clean Air Act, could deter our customers from entering into coal supply agreements.  Also, the availability and price of competing fuels, such as natural gas, could influence the volume of coal a customer is willing to purchase under contract.. Our coal supply agreements typically contain force majeure provisions allowing the parties to temporarily suspend performance during specified events beyond their control. Most of our coal supply agreements also contain provisions requiring us to deliver coal that satisfies certain quality specifications, such as heat value, sulfur content, ash content, hardness and ash fusion temperature. These provisions in our coal supply agreements could result in negative economic consequences to us, including price adjustments, purchasing replacement coal in a higher-priced open market, the rejection of deliveries or, in the extreme, contract termination. Our profitability may be negatively affected if we are unable to seek protection during adverse economic conditions or if we incur financial or other economic penalties as a result of these provisions of our coal supply agreements. For more information about our long-term coal supply agreements, you should see the section entitled \"Long-Term Coal Supply Arrangements\" under Item 1.. Our ability to collect payments from our customers could be impaired if their creditworthiness deteriorates and our financial position could be materially and adversely effected by the bankruptcy of any of our significant customers.. Our ability to receive payment for coal sold and delivered depends on the continued creditworthiness of our customers. If we determine that a customer is not creditworthy, we may be able to withhold delivery under the customer's coal sales contract. If this occurs, we may decide to sell the customer's coal on the spot market, which may be at prices lower than the contracted price, or we may be unable to sell the coal at all. Furthermore, the bankruptcy of any of our significant customers could materially and adversely affect our financial position.. In addition, our customer base may change with deregulation as utilities sell their power plants to their non-regulated affiliates or third parties that may be less creditworthy, thereby increasing the risk we bear for customer payment default. Some power plant owners may have credit ratings that are below investment grade, or may become below investment grade after we enter into contracts with them. In addition, competition with other coal suppliers could force us to extend credit to customers and on terms that could increase the risk of payment default. Customers in other countries may also be subject to other pressures and uncertainties that may affect their ability to pay, including trade barriers, exchange controls and local economic and political conditions.. A defect in title or the loss of a leasehold interest in certain property or surface rights could limit our ability to mine our coal reserves or result in significant unanticipated costs.. We conduct a significant part of our coal mining operations on properties that we lease. A title defect or the loss of a lease or surface rights could adversely affect our ability to mine the associated coal reserves. We may not verify title to our leased properties or associated coal reserves until we have committed to developing those properties or coal reserves. We may not commit to develop property or coal reserves until we have obtained necessary permits and completed exploration. As such, the title to property that we intend to lease or coal reserves that we intend to mine may contain defects prohibiting our ability to conduct mining operations. Similarly, our leasehold interests may be subject to superior property rights of other third parties. In order to conduct our mining operations on properties where these defects exist, we may incur unanticipated costs. In addition, some leases require us to produce a minimum quantity of coal and require us to pay minimum production royalties. Our inability to satisfy those requirements may cause the leasehold interest to terminate.. The availability, reliability and cost-effectiveness of transportation facilities and fluctuations in transportation costs could affect the demand for our coal or impair our ability to supply coal to our customers.. We depend upon barge, ship, rail, truck and belt transportation systems, as well as seaborne vessels and port facilities, to deliver coal to our customers. Disruptions in transportation services due to weather-related problems, mechanical difficulties, strikes, lockouts, bottlenecks, route closures and other events beyond our control could impair our ability to supply coal to our customers. Since we do not have long-term contracts with all transportation providers we utilize, decreased performance levels over longer periods of time could cause our customers to look to other sources for their coal needs. In addition, increases in transportation costs, including the price of gasoline and diesel fuel, could make coal a less competitive source of energy when compared to alternative fuels or could make coal produced in one region of the United States less competitive than coal produced in other regions of the United States or abroad. If we experience disruptions in our transportation services or if transportation costs increase significantly and we are unable to find alternative transportation providers, our coal mining operations may be disrupted, we could experience a delay or halt of production or our profitability could decrease significantly.. 38. Table of Contents. In addition, a growing portion of our coal sales in recent years has been into export markets, and we are actively seeking additional international customers. Our ability to maintain and grow our export sales revenue and margins depends on a number of factors, including the existence of sufficient and cost-effective export terminal capacity for the shipment of coal to foreign markets. At present, there is limited terminal capacity for the export of coal into foreign markets. Our access to existing and future terminal capacity may be adversely affected by regulatory and permit requirements, environmental and other legal challenges, public perceptions and resulting political pressures, operational issues at terminals and competition among domestic coal producers for access to limited terminal capacity, among other factors. If we are unable to maintain terminal capacity, or are unable to access additional future terminal capacity for the export of our coal on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, our results could be materially and adversely affected.. From time to time we enter into \"take or pay\" contracts for rail and port capacity related to our export sales. These contracts require us to pay for a minimum quantity of coal to be transported on the railway or through the port regardless of whether we sell and ship any coal. If we fail to acquire sufficient export sales to meet our minimum obligations under these contracts, we are still obligated to make payments to the railway or port facility, which could have a negative impact on our cash flows, profitability and results of operations.. The loss of, or significant reduction in, purchases by our largest customers could adversely affect our profitability.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we derived approximately 17% of our total coal revenues from sales to our three largest customers and approximately 41% of our total coal revenues from sales to our ten largest customers. We are currently discussing the extension of coal sales agreements with some of these customers. However, we may be unsuccessful in obtaining coal supply agreements with those customers, and some or all of these customers could discontinue purchasing coal from us. If any of those customers, particularly any of our three largest customers, was to significantly reduce the quantities of coal it purchases from us, or if we are unable to sell coal to those customers on terms as favorable to us, it may have an adverse impact on the results of our business.. We may incur losses as a result of certain marketing, trading and asset optimization strategies.. We seek to optimize our coal production and leverage our knowledge of the coal industry through a variety of marketing, trading and other asset optimization strategies. We maintain a system of complementary processes and controls designed to monitor and control our exposure to market and other risks as a consequence of these strategies. These processes and controls seek to balance our ability to profit from certain marketing, trading and asset optimization strategies with our exposure to potential losses. While we employ a variety of risk monitoring and mitigation techniques, those techniques and accompanying judgments cannot anticipate every potential outcome or the timing of such outcomes. In addition, the processes and controls that we use to manage our exposure to market and other risks resulting from these strategies involve assumptions about the degrees of correlation or lack thereof among prices of various assets or other market indicators. These correlations may change significantly in times of market turbulence or other unforeseen circumstances. As a result, we may experience volatility in our earnings as a result of our marketing, trading and asset optimization strategies.. International growth in our operations adds new and unique risks to our business.. We have sales offices in Singapore and the United Kingdom. The international expansion of our operations increases our exposure to country and currency risks. In addition, our international offices are selling our coal to new customers and customers in new countries, whose business practices and reputations are not as well known to us. We are also challenged by political risks by expanding internationally, including the potential for expropriation of assets and limits on the repatriation of earnings. In the event that we are unable to effectively manage these new risks, our results of operations, financial position or cash flow could be adversely affected by these activities.. If we sustain cyber attacks or other security breaches that disrupt our operations, or that result in the unauthorized release of proprietary or confidential information, we could be exposed to significant liability, reputational harm, loss of revenue, increased costs or other risks.. We may be subject to security breaches which could result in unauthorized access to our facilities or to information we are trying to protect. Unauthorized physical access to one or more of our facilities or locations, or electronic access to our proprietary or confidential information could result in, among other things, unfavorable publicity, litigation by parties affected by such breach, disruptions to our operations, loss of customers, and financial obligations for damages related to the theft or misuse of such information, any of which could have a substantial impact on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flow.. 39. Table of Contents. Our ability to operate the Company effectively could be impaired if we lose key personnel or fail to attract qualified personnel.. We manage our business with a number of key personnel, the loss of whom could have a material adverse effect on us, absent the completion of an orderly transition.  In addition, we believe that our future success will depend greatly on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel, particularly personnel with mining experience. Failure to retain or attract key personnel could have a material adverse effect on us.. We may be unable to comply with the restriction imposed by our New First Lien Debt Facility and other financing arrangements.. The agreements governing our outstanding financing arrangements impose a number of restrictions on us.  For example, the terms of our credit facilities, leases and other financing arrangements contain financial and other covenants that create limitations on our ability to borrow the full amount under our credit facilities, effect acquisitions or dispositions and incur additional debt and require us to comply with various affirmative covenants.  The New First Lien Debt Facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, which include restrictions on (i) indebtedness, (ii) liens and guarantees, (iii) liquidations, mergers, consolidations, acquisitions, (iv) disposition of assets or subsidiaries, (v) affiliate transactions, (vi) creation or ownership of certain subsidiaries, partnerships and joint ventures, (vii) continuation of or change in business, (viii) restricted payments, (ix) payment of other indebtedness, (x) no restriction in agreements on dividends or certain loans, (xi) loans and investments, (ix) transactions with respect to Bonding Subsidiaries and (xiii) changes in organizational documents.  Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control and our failure to comply could result in an event of default under the New First Lien Debt Facility.. Risks Related to Environmental, Other Regulations and Legislation. Extensive environmental regulations, including existing and potential future regulatory requirements relating to air emissions, affect our customers and could reduce the demand for coal as a fuel source and cause coal prices and sales of our coal to materially decline.. Coal contains impurities, including but not limited to sulfur, mercury, chlorine and other elements or compounds, many of which are released into the air when coal is burned. The operations of our customers are subject to extensive environmental regulation particularly with respect to air emissions. For example, the federal Clean Air Act and similar state and local laws extensively regulate the amount of sulfur dioxide, particulate matter, nitrogen oxides, and other compounds emitted into the air from electric power plants, which are the largest end - users of our coal. A series of more stringent requirements relating to particulate matter, ozone, haze, mercury, sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide and other air pollutants is in the process of being developed and implemented.  For instance, the Clean Power Plan, if implemented in its current form, would severely limit emissions of carbon dioxide which would adversely affect our ability to sell coal.  However, in April 2017, the EPA announced that it was initiating a review of the Clean Power Plan consistent with President Trump's Executive Order 13783, and, in October 2017, the EPA published a proposed rule to formally repeal the Clean Power Plan.  In December 2015, the United States and 195 other countries reached an agreement (the \"Paris Agreement\" during the 21st Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, a long-term, international framework convention designed to address climate change over the next several decades.  In June 2017, President Trump announced that the United States plans to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and to seek negotiations either to reenter the Paris Agreement on different terms or to establish a new framework agreement. The earliest permitted exit date under the Paris Agreement is four years from when the agreement took effect in November 2016, or November 2020. Whether the United States will adhere to the Paris Agreement's exit process is, and the terms on which the United States may reenter the Paris Agreement or a separately negotiated agreement are, uncertain at this time. However, any efforts to control and/or reduce greenhouse gas emissions by the United States or other countries that have also pledged \"Nationally Determined Contributions,\" or concerted conservation efforts that result in reduced electricity consumption, could adversely impact coal prices, our ability to sell coal and, in turn, our financial position and results of operations.. Considerable uncertainty is associated with these air emissions initiatives. The content of regulatory requirements in the United States continues to evolve and develop and many new regulatory initiatives remain subject to review by federal or state agencies or the courts. Stringent air emissions limitations are either in place or are likely to be imposed in the short to medium term, and these limitations will likely require significant emissions control expenditures for many coal - fueled power plants. As a result, these power plants may switch to other fuels that generate fewer of these emissions, may install more effective pollution control equipment that reduces the need for low sulfur coal, or may cease operations, possibly reducing future demand for coal and a reduced need to construct new coal - fueled power plants. Any switching of fuel sources away from coal, closure of existing coal - fired plants, or reduced construction of new plants could have a material adverse effect on. 40. Table of Contents. demand for and prices received for our coal. Alternatively, less stringent air emissions limitations, particularly related to sulfur, to the extent enacted could make low sulfur coal less attractive, which could also have a material adverse effect on the demand for and prices received for our coal.. You should see Item 1, \"Environmental and Other Regulatory Matters\" for more information about the various governmental regulations affecting the market for our products.. The demand for our products or our securities, as well as the number and quantity of viable financing alternatives, may be significantly impacted by increased governmental regulations and unfavorable lending and investment policies by financial institutions and insurance companies associated with concerns about environmental impacts of coal combustion, including perceived impacts on the global climate.. Carbon dioxide, which is considered to be a greenhouse gas, is a by-product of burning coal.  Global climate issues, including with respect to greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide and the relationship that greenhouse gases may have with perceived climate change, continue to attract significant public and scientific attention.  For example, the Fourth and Fifth Assessment Reports of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change have expressed concern about the impacts of human activity, especially from fossil fuel combustion, on global climate issues.  As a result of the public and scientific attention, several governmental bodies increasingly are focusing on climate issues and, more specifically, levels of emissions of carbon dioxide from coal combustion by power plants.  The Clean Power Plan would severely limit emissions of carbon dioxide, possibly reducing future demand for coal.  However, in April 2017 the EPA announced that it was initiating a review of the Clean Power Plan consistent with President Trump's Executive Order 13783, and in October 2017 published a proposed rule to formally repeal the Clean Power Plan. Additionally, a number of governments pledged to control and reduce greenhouse gas emissions under the Paris Agreement, which may impact demand for coal resources despite the United States' June 2017 announcement that it intends to withdraw its commitment.. Future regulation of greenhouse gas emissions in the United States could occur pursuant to future U.S. treaty obligations, statutory or regulatory changes and the federal, state or local level or otherwise.  Enactment of laws or passage of regulations regarding greenhouse emissions from the combustion of coal by the U.S., some of its states or other countries, or other actions to limit emissions could result in electricity generators switching from coal to other fuel sources or coal-fueled power plant closures.  You should see Item 1, \"Environmental and Other Regulatory Matters-Climate Change\" for more information about governmental regulations relating to greenhouse gas emissions.. In addition, certain banks, other financing sources and insurance companies have taken actions to limit available financing and insurance coverage for the development of new coal-fueled power plants and coal miners and utilities that derive a majority of their revenue from thermal coal, which also may adversely impact the future global demand for coal. Further, there have been recent efforts by members of the general financial and investment communities, such as investment advisors, sovereign wealth funds, public pension funds, universities and other groups, to divest themselves and to promote the divestment of securities issued by companies involved in the fossil fuel extraction market, such as coal producers. Those entities also have been pressuring lenders to limit financing available to such companies. These efforts may adversely affect the market for our securities and our ability to access capital and financial markets in the future.. Any future laws, regulations or other policies of the nature described above may adversely impact our business in material ways. The degree to which any particular law, regulation or policy impacts us will depend on several factors, including the substantive terms involved, the relevant time periods for enactment and any related transition periods. We routinely attempt to evaluate the potential impact on us of any proposed laws, regulations or policies, which requires that we make several material assumptions. From time to time, we determine that the impact of one or more such laws, regulations or policies, if adopted and ultimately implemented as proposed, may result in materially adverse impacts on our operations, financial condition or cash flow.  In general, it is likely that any future laws, regulations or other policies aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions will negatively impact demand for our coal.. Our failure to obtain and renew permits necessary for our mining operations could negatively affect our business.. Mining companies must obtain numerous permits that impose strict regulations on various environmental and operational matters in connection with coal mining. These include permits issued by various federal, state and local agencies and regulatory bodies. The permitting rules, and the interpretations of these rules, are complex, change frequently and are often subject to discretionary interpretations by the regulators, all of which may make compliance more difficult or impractical, and may possibly preclude the continuance of ongoing operations or the development of future mining operations. The public, including non - governmental organizations, anti - mining groups and individuals, have certain statutory rights to comment upon and submit objections to requested permits and environmental impact statements prepared in connection with applicable. 41. Table of Contents. regulatory processes, and otherwise engage in the permitting process, including bringing citizens' lawsuits to challenge the issuance of permits, the validity of environmental impact statements or performance of mining activities. Accordingly, required permits may not be issued or renewed in a timely fashion or at all, or permits issued or renewed may be conditioned in a manner that may restrict our ability to efficiently and economically conduct our mining activities, any of which would materially reduce our production, cash flow and profitability.. Federal or state regulatory agencies have the authority to order certain of our mines to be temporarily or permanently closed under certain circumstances, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to meet our customers' demands.. Federal or state regulatory agencies have the authority under certain circumstances following significant health and safety incidents, such as fatalities, to order a mine to be temporarily or permanently closed. If this occurred, we may be required to incur capital expenditures to re - open the mine. In the event that these agencies order the closing of our mines, our coal sales contracts generally permit us to issue force majeure notices which suspend our obligations to deliver coal under these contracts. However, our customers may challenge our issuances of force majeure notices. If these challenges are successful, we may have to purchase coal from third - party sources, if it is available, to fulfill these obligations, incur capital expenditures to re - open the mines and/or negotiate settlements with the customers, which may include price reductions, the reduction of commitments or the extension of time for delivery or terminate customers' contracts. Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Extensive environmental regulations impose significant costs on our mining operations, and future regulations could materially increase those costs or limit our ability to produce and sell coal.. The coal mining industry is subject to increasingly strict regulation by federal, state and local authorities with respect to environmental matters such as:. • limitations on land use;. • mine permitting and licensing requirements;. • reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining is completed and required surety bonds or other instruments to secure those reclamation and restoration obligations;. • management of materials generated by mining operations;. • the storage, treatment and disposal of wastes;. • remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater;. • air quality standards;. • water pollution;. • protection of human health, plant - life and wildlife, including endangered or threatened species;. • protection of wetlands;. • the discharge of materials into the environment;. • the effects of mining on surface water and groundwater quality and availability; and. • the management of electrical equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls.. The costs, liabilities and requirements associated with the laws and regulations related to these and other environmental matters may be costly and time - consuming and may delay commencement or continuation of exploration or production operations.  Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, the issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations, the suspension or revocation of permits and other enforcement measures that could have the effect of limiting production from our operations. We may incur material costs and liabilities resulting from claims for damages to property or injury to persons arising from our operations. If we are pursued for sanctions, costs and liabilities in respect of these matters, our mining operations and, as a result, our profitability could be materially and adversely affected.. New legislation or administrative regulations or new judicial interpretations or administrative enforcement of existing laws and regulations, including proposals related to the protection of the environment that would further regulate and tax the coal industry, may also require us to change operations significantly or incur increased costs. Such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. You should see the section entitled \"Environmental and Other Regulatory Matters\" in Item 1 for more information about the various governmental regulations affecting us.. 42. Table of Contents. If the assumptions underlying our estimates of reclamation and mine closure obligations are inaccurate, our costs could be greater than anticipated.. SMCRA and counterpart state laws and regulations establish operational, reclamation and closure standards for all aspects of surface mining, as well as most aspects of underground mining. We base our estimates of reclamation and mine closure liabilities on permit requirements, engineering studies and our engineering expertise related to these requirements. Our management and engineers periodically review these estimates. The estimates can change significantly if actual costs vary from our original assumptions or if governmental regulations change significantly. We are required to record new obligations as liabilities at fair value under generally accepted accounting principles. In estimating fair value, we considered the estimated current costs of reclamation and mine closure and applied inflation rates and a third - party profit, as required. The third - party profit is an estimate of the approximate markup that would be charged by contractors for work performed on our behalf. The resulting estimated reclamation and mine closure obligations could change significantly if actual amounts change significantly from our assumptions, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our operations may impact the environment or cause exposure to hazardous substances, and our properties may have environmental contamination, which could result in material liabilities to us.. Our operations currently use hazardous materials and generate limited quantities of hazardous wastes from time to time. We could become subject to claims for toxic torts, natural resource damages and other damages as well as for the investigation and cleanup of soil, surface water, groundwater, and other media. Such claims may arise, for example, out of conditions at sites that we currently own or operate, as well as at sites that we previously owned or operated, or at sites that we may acquire.  Under certain federal and state environmental laws, our liability for such conditions may be joint and several with other owners/operators, so that we may be held responsible for more than our share of the contamination or other damages, or even for the entire share.  Liability under these laws is generally strict.  Accordingly, we may incur liability without regard to fault or to the legality of the conduct giving rise to the conditions.. We maintain extensive coal refuse areas and slurry impoundments at a number of our mining complexes. Such areas and impoundments are subject to extensive regulation. Slurry impoundments can fail, which could release large volumes of coal slurry into the surrounding environment. Structural failure of an impoundment can result in extensive damage to the environment and natural resources, such as bodies of water that the coal slurry reaches, as well as liability for related personal injuries and property damages, and injuries to wildlife. Some of our impoundments overlie mined-out areas, which can pose a heightened risk of failure and of damages arising out of failure. If one of our impoundments were to fail, we could be subject to substantial claims for the resulting environmental contamination and associated liability, as well as for fines and penalties.. Drainage flowing from or caused by mining activities can be acidic with elevated levels of dissolved metals, a condition referred to as \"acid mine drainage,\" which we refer to as AMD. The treating of AMD can be costly. Although we do not currently face material costs associated with AMD, it is possible that we could incur significant costs in the future.. These and other similar unforeseen impacts that our operations may have on the environment, as well as exposures to hazardous substances or wastes associated with our operations, could result in costs and liabilities that could materially and adversely affect us.. Judicial rulings that restrict how we may dispose of mining wastes could significantly increase our operating costs, discourage customers from purchasing our coal and materially harm our financial condition and operating results.. To dispose of mining overburden generated by our Appalachian surface mining operations, we often need to obtain permits to construct and operate valley fills and surface impoundments. Some of these permits are Clean Water Act § 404 permits issued by the Army Corps of Engineers (the Corps). Two of our operating subsidiaries were identified in an existing lawsuit, which challenged the issuance of such permits and asked that the Corps be ordered to rescind them. Two of our operating subsidiaries intervened in the suit to protect their interests in being allowed to operate under the issued permits, and the claims against one of the subsidiaries was thereafter dismissed. On February 13, 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit ruled on appeals from decisions rendered prior to our intervention.   On May 22, 2017, the United States District Court for the Southern District of West Virginia granted the remaining subsidiary's motion to dismiss plaintiffs' Seventh Supplemental and Amended Complaint after the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the EPA's final determination rescinding Mingo Logan Coal Company's 404 authorization regarding Pigeonroost Branch and Oldhouse Branch. The D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals decision finally resolved a lawsuit filed by Mingo Logan against EPA challenging EPA's authority to rescind a 404 permit authorization.. 43. Table of Contents. Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could complicate or limit our business activities, increase our operating costs or result in litigation.. The conduct of our businesses is subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the United States. These laws and regulations may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of political, economic or social events or in response to significant events.  Environmental and other non-governmental organizations and activists, many of which are well funded, continue to exert pressure on regulators and other government bodies to enact more stringent laws and regulations.  Changes in the legal and regulatory environment in which we operate may impact our results, increase our costs or liabilities, complicate or limit our business activities or result in litigation.  Such legal and regulatory environment changes may include changes in such items as: the processes for obtaining or renewing permits;  federal lease by application programs; costs associated with providing healthcare benefits to employees; health and safety standards; accounting standards; taxation requirements; and competition laws.  Furthermore, pursuant to a February 2017 executive order and the proposed rule published on July 27, 2017, the EPA will review and revise the definition of \"waters of the United States,\" which may include re-codifying the definition that currently governs administration of the Clean Water Act.  Adoption of more stringent application of existing regulations may materially increase our costs and adversely affect our operations.. Risks Related to Income Taxes. Recent U.S. tax legislation may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The ability to use our net operating losses (\"NOLs\") and alternative minimum tax (\"AMT\") credits has been limited by the \"ownership change\" under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (the \"Code\") that occurred on our emergence from bankruptcy (\"the Emergence Ownership Change\").  The limitation resulting from the Ownership Change is substantial and applies to all NOLs and AMT tax credits existing at the time of the Ownership Change. The limitation resulting from the Emergence Ownership Change may have a significant impact on our ability to offset future taxable income with carryforward net operating losses. NOLs and AMT credits generated after the Emergence Ownership Change are generally not subject to the limitations.. As a result of the discharge of debt in the Chapter 11 Cases, we and our subsidiaries were required to reduce the amount of our NOLs and AMT credits and other tax attributes existing at the end of 2016.. Recently enacted U.S. tax legislation has significantly changed the U.S. federal income taxation of U.S. corporations.  Changes include the reduction of the U.S. corporate income tax rate, elimination of the AMT tax system, limitation of interest deductions and revision of the rules governing net operating losses. Many of these changes are effective immediately, without any transition periods or grandfathering for existing transactions.. The legislation is unclear in many respects and could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, as well as interpretations and implementing regulations by the Treasury and Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\"), any of which could lessen or increase certain adverse impacts of the legislation. In addition, it is unclear how these U.S. federal income tax changes will affect state and local taxation, which often uses federal taxable income as a starting point for computing state and local tax liabilities.. While some of the changes made by the tax legislation may adversely affect us in one or more reporting periods and prospectively, other changes may be beneficial on a going forward basis. We continue to work with our tax advisors to determine the full impact that the recent tax legislation as a whole will have on us. We urge our investors to consult with their legal and tax advisors with respect to such legislation."
