[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. As described in Part I (\"Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements\"), this 2017 Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements regarding us, our business and our industry. The risk factors described below, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted.. The Proposed Merger is subject to conditions, including some conditions that may not be satisfied on a timely basis, if at all. Failure to complete the Proposed Merger, or significant delays in completing the Proposed Merger, could negatively affect each party's future business and financial results and the trading prices of our common stock and the Partnership's common units.. The completion of the Proposed Merger is subject to a number of conditions. The completion of the Proposed Merger is not assured and is subject to risks, including the risk that Archrock stockholder approval or the Partnership's common unitholder approval is not obtained. Further, the Proposed Merger may not be completed even if the Archrock stockholder approval and the Partnership common unitholder approval are obtained. The Merger Agreement contains conditions, some of which are beyond the parties' control, that, if not satisfied or waived, may prevent, delay or otherwise result in the Proposed Merger not occurring.. 18. Table of Contents. If the Proposed Merger is not completed, or if there are significant delays in completing the Proposed Merger, Archrock's and the Partnership's future business and financial results and the trading prices of our common stock and the Partnership's common units could be negatively affected, and each of the parties will be subject to several risks, including the following:. • the parties may be liable for fees or expenses to one another under the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement;. • there may be negative reactions from the financial markets due to the fact that current prices of our common stock and the Partnership's common units may reflect a market assumption that the Proposed Merger will be completed; and. • the attention of management will have been diverted to the Proposed Merger rather than their own operations and pursuit of other opportunities that could have been beneficial to their respective businesses.. Because the exchange ratio is fixed and because the market price of our common stock will fluctuate prior to the completion of the Proposed Merger, the Partnership's common unitholders cannot be sure of the market value of the Archrock common stock they will receive as merger consideration relative to the value of the Partnership's common units they exchange.. The market value of the consideration that the Partnership's common unitholders will receive in the Proposed Merger will depend on the trading price of our common stock at the closing of the Proposed Merger. The exchange ratio that determines the number of shares of our common stock that the Partnership's common unitholders will receive in the Proposed Merger is fixed at 1.40 shares of our common stock for each of the Partnership's common unit. This means that there is no mechanism contained in the Merger Agreement that would adjust the number of shares of our common stock that the Partnership's common unitholders will receive based on any decreases or increases in the trading price of our common stock. Stock or unit price changes may result from a variety of factors (many of which are beyond our and the Partnership's control), including:. • changes in our or the Partnership's business, operations and prospects;. • changes in market assessments of our or the Partnership's business, operations and prospects;. • changes in market assessments of the likelihood that the Proposed Merger will be completed;. • interest rates, commodity prices, general market, industry and economic conditions and other factors generally affecting the price of our common stock or the Partnership's common units; and. • federal, state and local legislation, governmental regulation and legal developments in the businesses in which we and the Partnership operate.. If the price of our common stock at the closing of the Proposed Merger is less than the price of our common stock on the date that the Merger Agreement was signed, then the market value of the merger consideration will be less than contemplated at the time the Merger Agreement was signed.. The date the Partnership's common unitholders will receive the merger consideration depends on the completion date of the Proposed Merger, which is uncertain.. Completing the Proposed Merger is subject to several conditions, not all of which are controllable by us or the Partnership. Accordingly, even if the Proposed Merger is approved by the Partnership's common unitholders, the date on which common unitholders will receive merger consideration depends on the completion date of the Proposed Merger, which is uncertain and subject to several other closing conditions.. We and the Partnership may incur substantial transaction-related costs in connection with the Proposed Merger.. We and the Partnership expect to incur substantial expenses in connection with completing the Proposed Merger, including fees paid to legal, financial and accounting advisors, filing fees, proxy solicitation costs and printing costs. Many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately at the present time.. 19. Table of Contents. Each of we and the Partnership is subject to provisions that limit the ability to pursue alternatives to the Proposed Merger and could discourage a potential competing acquirer from making a favorable alternative transaction proposal.. Under the Merger Agreement, we are restricted from pursuing alternative proposals. Under certain \"no solicitation\" covenants, we have agreed that we will not, and will cause our subsidiaries and use reasonable best efforts to cause our representatives not to, directly or indirectly, except as permitted by the Merger Agreement:. • solicit, initiate, knowingly facilitate or knowingly encourage the submission of an alternative proposal (including any acquisition structured as a merger, consolidation or share exchange);. • participate in any discussions or negotiations regarding, or furnish any information with respect to, any proposal or offer from any person relating to, or that could reasonably be expected to lead to, an alternative proposal;. • knowingly assist, participate in or facilitate in any other manner any effort or attempt by any person to do or seek any of the foregoing;. • enter into any acquisition agreement with respect to any alternative proposal (other than a confidentiality agreement containing customary provisions); or. • make an Archrock adverse recommendation change.. We have agreed that we will, and will cause our subsidiaries and use reasonable best efforts to cause our representatives to, cease and cause to be terminated any discussions or negotiations with any persons conducted prior to the execution of the Merger Agreement with respect to an alternative proposal and immediately prohibit any access by any person to confidential information relating to a possible alternative proposal.. In addition, each of we and the Partnership has agreed not to make an adverse recommendation change, except as provided in the Merger Agreement. Under the Merger Agreement, in the event of a potential Partnership adverse recommendation change or a potential Archrock adverse recommendation change, each party must provide the other party with three days' notice to allow the other party to propose an adjustment to the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement.. These provisions could discourage a third party that may have an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of us or the Partnership from considering or proposing that acquisition.. We are subject to provisions under the Merger Agreement that, in specified circumstances, could require us to pay a fee to the Partnership of $10 million. In addition, each of we and the Partnership may, under certain specified circumstances, be responsible for the other party's expenses in an amount up to $2 million.. If the Merger Agreement is terminated (i) by the Partnership due to a material uncured breach by us of any of our covenants, representations or warranties, (ii) by us to enter into a definitive agreement relating to a superior proposal or (iii) by the Partnership or us due to the failure to obtain the required Archrock stockholder approval and an alternative proposal has been made publicly prior to the Archrock stockholder meeting and within twelve months of termination we have entered into a definitive agreement with respect to, or consummated, an alternative proposal, we will be required to pay a fee to the Partnership in the amount of $10 million. Alternatively, if the Merger Agreement is terminated under specified circumstances, either we or the Partnership may be required to make a payment of up to $2 million in respect of the other party's expenses. If such termination fee or expenses are payable, the payment of such termination fee or expenses could have material and adverse consequences to the financial condition and operations of the party responsible for such payment.. 20. Table of Contents. Certain executive officers and directors of Archrock GP LLC and Archrock have interests in the Proposed Merger that are different from, or in addition to, the interests they may have as the Partnership's common unitholders or our stockholders, respectively, which could have influenced their decision to support or approve the Proposed Merger.. Certain executive officers and directors of Archrock GP LLC own equity interests in us, receive fees and other compensation from us and will have rights to ongoing indemnification and insurance coverage by the surviving company that give them interests in the Proposed Merger that may be different from, or be in addition to, interests of an unaffiliated unitholder of the Partnership.. Additionally, certain of our executive officers and directors beneficially own Partnership common units and will receive the applicable merger consideration upon completion of the Proposed Merger, receive fees and other compensation from us and are entitled to indemnification arrangements with us that give them interests in the Proposed Merger that may be different from, or be in addition to, interests a holder of our common stock may have as an Archrock stockholder.. Financial projections by us and the Partnership may not prove to be reflective of actual future results.. In connection with the Proposed Merger, we and the Partnership prepared and considered, among other things, internal financial forecasts for Archrock and the Partnership, respectively. These forecasts speak only as of the date made and will not be updated. These financial projections were not provided with a view to public disclosure, are subject to significant economic, competitive, industry and other uncertainties and may not be achieved in full, at all or within projected time frames. In addition, the failure of businesses to achieve projected results could have a material adverse effect on our share price, financial position and ability to maintain or increase our dividends following the Proposed Merger.. We and the Partnership may be unable to obtain the regulatory clearances required to complete the Proposed Merger or, in order to do so, we and the Partnership may be required to comply with material restrictions or satisfy material conditions.. The Proposed Merger is subject to review by the Antitrust Division and the Federal Trade Commission under the HSR Act. On February 9, 2018, the Antitrust Division and the Federal Trade Commission granted early termination of the waiting period under the HSR Act. The closing of the Proposed Merger is subject to the condition precedent that there is no law, injunction, judgment or ruling by a governmental authority in effect enjoining, restraining, preventing or prohibiting the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement or making the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement illegal.. Additionally, state attorneys general could seek to block or challenge the Proposed Merger as they deem necessary or desirable in the public interest at any time, including after completion of the transaction. In addition, in some circumstances, a third party could initiate a private action under antitrust laws challenging or seeking to enjoin the Proposed Merger, before or after it is completed. We may not prevail and may incur significant costs in defending or settling any action under the antitrust laws.. Shares of our common stock to be received by the Partnership's common unitholders as a result of the Proposed Merger have different rights from the Partnership's common units.. Following completion of the Proposed Merger, the Partnership's common unitholders will no longer hold the Partnership's common units, but will instead be Archrock's stockholders. There are important differences between the rights of the Partnership's common unitholders and the rights of Archrock's stockholders. Ownership interests in a limited partnership are fundamentally different from ownership interests in a corporation. The Partnership's common unitholders will own our common stock following the completion of the Proposed Merger, and their rights associated with the common stock will be governed by Archrock's organizational documents and the Delaware General Corporation Law, which differ in a number of respects from the Partnership's partnership agreement and the Limited Partnership Act of the State of Delaware.. 21. Table of Contents. The recently passed comprehensive tax reform bill could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which significantly reforms the Code. The TCJA, among other things, contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including a permanent reduction of the corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, a partial limitation on the deductibility of business interest expense, limitation of the deduction for certain net operating losses to 80% of current year taxable income, an indefinite net operating loss carryforward, immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, the cessation of like-kind exchange treatment for exchanges of tangible personal property and the modification or repeal of many business deductions and credits. We continue to examine the impact of this tax reform legislation, and as its overall impact is uncertain, we note that the TCJA could adversely affect our business and financial condition. The impact of this tax reform legislation on holders of our common stock is also uncertain and could be adverse.. Tax legislation and administrative initiatives or challenges to our tax positions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We operate in locations throughout the U.S. and, as a result, we are subject to the tax laws and regulations of U.S. federal, state and local governments. From time to time, various legislative or administrative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions. There can be no assurance that our tax provision or tax payments will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. In addition, U.S. federal, state and local tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. There can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge.. Our ability to use NOLs to offset future income may be limited.. Our ability to use any NOLs generated by us could be substantially limited if we were to experience an \"ownership change\" as defined under Section 382 of the Code. In general, an \"ownership change\" would occur if our \"5-percent stockholders,\" as defined under Section 382 of the Code, including certain groups of persons treated as \"5-percent stockholders,\" collectively increased their ownership in us by more than 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. An ownership change can occur as a result of a public offering of our common stock, as well as through secondary market purchases of our common stock and certain types of reorganization transactions. A corporation that experiences an ownership change will generally be subject to an annual limitation on the use of its pre-ownership change NOLs (and certain other losses and/or credits) equal to the equity value of the corporation immediately before the ownership change, multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt rate for the month in which the ownership change occurs. Such a limitation could result from future transactions and could, for any given year, have the effect of increasing the amount of our U.S. federal income tax liability, which would negatively impact the amount of after-tax cash available for distribution to our stockholders and our financial condition.. The restatement of our financial statements as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 and for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 expose us to additional risks and uncertainties, including regulatory, stockholder or other actions, loss of investor and counterparty confidence and negative impacts on our stock price.. We restated our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 and for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 (including the unaudited quarterly periods within 2015 and 2014) to correct for the accounting errors discussed in our 2015 Form 10-K/A, which we filed with the SEC on February 9, 2017. As a result of the restatement and the circumstances giving rise to the restatement, we have been incurring a number of additional costs and risks, including costs in connection with or related to the restatement, such as accounting and legal fees as well as sharing a portion of costs incurred by Exterran Corporation with respect to such matters. The SEC has been conducting an investigation in connection with the accounting errors and circumstances that gave rise to the restatement. We and Exterran Corporation are cooperating with the SEC in the investigation including, among other things, responding to subpoenas for documents and testimony related to the restatement of prior period consolidated and combined financial statements and related disclosures and compliance with the FCPA, which are also being provided to the DOJ. Potential proceedings arising out of the SEC's investigation could result in severe civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions. Any such proceedings will, regardless of the outcome, consume management's time and attention and may result in additional legal, accounting, insurance and other costs. We could be subject to additional regulatory, stockholder or other actions in connection with the restatement and related matters. In addition, the restatement and related matters could impair our reputation and could cause our counterparties to lose confidence in us. Each of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price.. 22. Table of Contents. We are engaged in ongoing litigation regarding our qualification as a Heavy Equipment Dealer, the qualification of our natural gas compressors as Heavy Equipment and the resulting appraisal of our natural gas compressors for ad valorem tax purposes, as well as the location where our natural gas compressors are taxable, under revised Texas statutes. If this litigation is resolved against us, or if in the future we do not qualify as a Heavy Equipment Dealer or our compressors do not qualify as Heavy Equipment because of new or revised Texas statutes, we will incur additional taxes and could be subject to substantial penalties and interest, which would adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. In 2011, the Texas Legislature enacted changes related to the appraisal of natural gas compressors for ad valorem tax purposes by expanding the definitions of \"Heavy Equipment Dealer\" and \"Heavy Equipment\" effective from the beginning of 2012. Under the revised Heavy Equipment Statutes, we believe we are a Heavy Equipment Dealer, that our natural gas compressors are Heavy Equipment and that we, therefore, are required to file our ad valorem taxes under this new methodology. We further believe that our natural gas compressors are taxable under the Heavy Equipment Statutes in the counties where we maintain a business location and keep natural gas compressors instead of where the compressors may be located on January 1 of a tax year. A large number of appraisal review boards denied our position, although some accepted it, and we filed petitions for review in the appropriate district courts with respect to the 2012 through 2017 tax years. See Part I, Item 3 (\"Legal Proceedings\") and Note 20 (\"Commitments and Contingencies\") to our Financial Statements for additional information regarding legal proceedings to which we are a party, including ongoing litigation regarding our qualification as a Heavy Equipment Dealer, the qualification of our natural gas compressors as Heavy Equipment and the resulting appraisal of our natural gas compressors for ad valorem tax purposes, as well as the location where our natural gas compressors are taxable, under revised Texas statutes.. As a result of the new methodology, our ad valorem tax expense (which is reflected in our consolidated statements of operations as a component of cost of sales (excluding depreciation and amortization)) includes a benefit of $17.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2017. Since the change in methodology became effective in 2012, we have recorded an aggregate benefit of $78.2 million as of December 31, 2017, of which $15.9 million has been agreed to by a number of appraisal review boards and county appraisal districts and $62.3 million has been disputed and is currently in litigation. Recognizing the similarity of the issues and that these cases will ultimately be resolved by the Texas appellate courts, we have reached, or intend to reach, agreements with some of the appraisal districts to stay or abate certain of these pending district court cases. If we are unsuccessful in our litigation, we would be required to pay ad valorem taxes up to the aggregate benefit we have recorded, and the additional ad valorem tax payments may also be subject to substantial penalties and interest. In addition, while we do not expect the ultimate determination of the issue of where the natural gas compressors are taxable under the Heavy Equipment Statutes would have an impact on the amount of taxes due, we could be subject to substantial penalties if we are unsuccessful on this issue. Also, if we are unsuccessful in our litigation, or if legislation is enacted in Texas that repeals or alters the Heavy Equipment Statutes such that in the future we do not qualify as a Heavy Equipment Dealer or our compressors do not qualify as Heavy Equipment, then we would likely be required to pay these ad valorem taxes under the old methodology going forward, which would increase our quarterly cost of sales expense up to approximately the amount of our then most recent quarterly benefit recorded, which would impact our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, including our ability to pay dividends in the future.. While we paid quarterly dividends of $0.12 per share of common stock with respect to each quarter of 2017, there can be no assurance that we will pay dividends in the future.. We paid quarterly cash dividends of $0.12 per share of common stock with respect to each quarter of 2017. We cannot provide assurance that we will, at any time in the future, again generate sufficient surplus cash that would be available for distribution to the holders of our common stock as a dividend or that our Board of Directors would determine to use any such surplus or our net profits to pay a dividend.. Future dividends may be affected by, among other factors:. • the availability of surplus or net profits, which in turn depend on the performance of our business and operating subsidiaries, including the Partnership;. • the amount of cash distributions we receive from the Partnership attributable to our ownership interest in the Partnership;. • our debt service requirements and other liabilities;. • our ability to refinance our debt in the future or borrow funds and access capital markets;. • restrictions contained in our debt agreements;. 23. Table of Contents. • our future capital requirements, including to fund our operating expenses and other working capital needs;. • the rates we charge for our services;. • the level of demand for our services;. • the creditworthiness of our customers;. • our level of operating expenses;. • Exterran Corporation's ability to recover in full, and our ability to receive contributions from Exterran Corporation corresponding to, the remaining proceeds to be paid to Exterran Corporation from PDVSA Gas; and. • changes in U.S. federal and state income tax laws or corporate laws.. We cannot provide assurance that we will declare or pay dividends in any particular amounts or at all in the future. A decision not to pay dividends or a reduction in our dividend payments in the future could have a negative effect on our stock price.. We depend on distributions from the Partnership to meet our capital needs and pay dividends to our stockholders.. To generate the funds necessary to meet our obligations, fund our business and pay dividends, we depend heavily on the cash distributions from the Partnership to us attributable to our ownership interest in the Partnership. Our ownership interest in the Partnership, including our limited partner interest, general partner interest and incentive distribution rights, is a significant cash-generating asset for us. As a result, our cash flow is heavily dependent upon the ability of the Partnership to make distributions to its partners. Applicable law and contractual restrictions (including restrictions in the Partnership's debt instruments and partnership agreement) may negatively impact our ability to obtain such distributions from our subsidiaries, including the rights of the creditors of the Partnership that would often be superior to our interests in the Partnership. A decline in the Partnership's business or revenues or increases in its expenses, principal and interest payments under existing and future debt instruments, working capital requirements or other cash needs could impair the Partnership's ability to make cash distributions to unitholders, including us, at the Partnership's current distribution rate. A reduction in the amount of cash distributions we receive from the Partnership would reduce the amount of cash available to us for payment of dividends, which could limit our ability to pay cash dividends at our current rate or at all, and would also reduce the amount of cash available to us for the payment of our debt and for the funding of our business requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Exterran Corporation is due to receive installment payments from the purchaser of its previously nationalized Venezuelan assets, the nonpayment of which would render Exterran Corporation unable to contribute amounts corresponding to those funds to us, which would negatively impact our liquidity and financial condition.. In March 2012 and August 2012, Exterran Corporation sold its previously nationalized Venezuelan joint venture assets and Venezuelan subsidiary assets, respectively, to PDVSA Gas, a subsidiary of PDVSA, for aggregate consideration of approximately $550 million. Exterran Corporation or its subsidiary was due to receive the remaining principal amount as of December 31, 2017 of $20.9 million. As these remaining proceeds are received, Exterran Corporation intends to contribute to us an amount equal to such proceeds pursuant to the terms of the separation and distribution agreement.. PDVSA's payments to many of its suppliers and partners are currently significantly in arrears, and PDVSA's payments to Exterran Corporation have been in arrears from time to time in the past. The ongoing social, political, economic and legal climate has given rise to significant uncertainties about the country's economic and political stability. Since the presidential election in the first half of 2013, the Venezuelan government has increasingly used foreign-exchange, price and capital controls to attempt to address the country's economic challenges. If current political unrest were to develop into a prolonged period of governmental or economic instability, or if PDVSA becomes increasingly unable to pay its suppliers and partners due to the detrimental effect of recent commodity price declines on Venezuela's economy or for other reasons, Exterran Corporation's ability to recover in full, and our ability to receive additional contributions corresponding to, the remaining proceeds to be paid from PDVSA Gas to Exterran Corporation could be adversely impacted. As of February 2018, PDVSA was in arrears on its payment obligations due to Exterran Corporation. If Exterran Corporation or its subsidiary does not receive that payment or any other remaining proceeds and we do not receive additional contributions from Exterran Corporation corresponding to the amount of such proceeds, our liquidity and financial condition would be negatively impacted.. 24. Table of Contents. In addition, in the event that PDVSA Gas defaults on any installment payment and Exterran Corporation is unwilling or unable to recover such installment payment, we may incur significant costs and expenses and expend significant resources, including the time and attention of our management team, in pursuing the recovery of such installment payment, which may negatively impact our business and financial condition.. We have a substantial amount of debt that could limit our ability to fund future growth and operations and increase our exposure to risk during adverse economic conditions.. At December 31, 2017 we had approximately $1.4 billion in outstanding debt obligations, net of unamortized debt discounts and unamortized deferred financing costs. Many factors, including factors beyond our control, may affect our ability to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness. These factors include those discussed elsewhere in these Risk Factors and those listed in \"Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements\" included in Part I of this 2017 Form 10-K.. Our substantial debt and associated commitments could have important adverse consequences. For example, these commitments could:. •make it more difficult for us to satisfy our contractual obligations;. •increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. •limit our ability to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other corporate requirements;. • increase our vulnerability to interest rate fluctuations because the interest payments on a portion of our debt are based upon variable interest rates and a portion can adjust based upon our credit statistics;. •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry;. •place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or less restrictive covenants in such debt; and. •limit our ability to refinance our debt in the future or borrow additional funds.. Covenants in the Credit Facility and Partnership Debt Agreements may impair our and the Partnership's ability to operate our respective businesses.. Our Credit Facility and the Partnership Debt Agreements contain various covenants with which we or certain of our subsidiaries or the Partnership must comply, including, but not limited to, restrictions on the use of proceeds from borrowings, limitations on the incurrence of indebtedness, investments, acquisitions, making loans, liens on assets, repurchasing equity, making distributions, transactions with affiliates, mergers, consolidations, dispositions of assets and other provisions customary in similar types of agreements. The Credit Facility and the Partnership Debt Agreements also contain various covenants requiring mandatory prepayments from the net cash proceeds of certain asset transfers. In addition, if as of any date our cash and cash equivalents (other than proceeds from a debt or equity issuance in the 30 days prior to such date reasonably expected to be used to fund an acquisition permitted under the Credit Facility) in excess of $35.0 million, then such excess amount will be used to pay down outstanding borrowings of a corresponding amount under the Credit Facility. If as of any date the Partnership has cash and cash equivalents (other than proceeds from a debt or equity issuance in the 30 days prior to such date reasonably expected to be used to fund an acquisition permitted under the Partnership Credit Facility) in excess of $50.0 million, then such excess amount will be used to pay down outstanding borrowings of a corresponding amount under the Partnership Credit Facility.. 25. Table of Contents. The Credit Facility and the Partnership Credit Facility are also subject to financial covenants, including the following ratios, as defined in their respective agreements:. Credit Facility   EBITDA to Interest Expense 2.25 to 1.0 Total Debt to EBITDA (1) 4.25 to 1.0     Partnership Credit Facility   EBITDA to Interest Expense 2.5 to 1.0 Senior Secured Debt to EBITDA 3.5 to 1.0 Total Debt to EBITDA   Through fiscal year 2017 5.95 to 1.0 Through fiscal year 2018 5.75 to 1.0 Through second quarter of 2019 5.50 to 1.0 Thereafter (2) 5.25 to 1.0. -  -  -  -  -  -. (1) Subject to a temporary increase to 4.75 to 1.0 for any quarter during which an acquisition meeting certain thresholds is completed and for the following two quarters after the quarter in which the acquisition closes.. (2) Subject to a temporary increase to 5.5 to 1.0 for any quarter during which an acquisition meeting certain thresholds is completed and for the following two quarters after the quarter in which the acquisition closes.. If we or the Partnership were to anticipate non-compliance with these financial ratios, we or the Partnership may take actions to maintain compliance with them. These actions include reductions in our general and administrative expenses, capital expenditures or the payment of cash dividends. Actions the Partnership may take include reductions in its general and administrative expenses, capital expenditures or the payment of cash distributions. Any of these measures, including a reduction in the amount of cash distributions we receive from the Partnership, may reduce the amount of cash available for payment of our debt, payment of dividends and the funding of our business requirements, which could have an adverse effect on our business, operations, cash flows or the price of our common stock.. The breach of any of the covenants under our Credit Facility, including our financial covenants, could result in a default under our Credit Facility, which could cause our indebtedness under the Credit Facility to become due and payable. If the repayment obligations on the Credit Facility were to be accelerated, we may not be able to repay the debt or refinance the debt on acceptable terms and our financial position would be materially adversely affected. In addition, a material adverse effect on our assets, liabilities, financial condition, business or operations, that, taken as a whole, impacts our ability to perform the obligations under our Credit Facility could lead to a default under those agreements.. The breach of any of the covenants under the Partnership Debt Agreements, including the Partnership's financial covenants, could result in a default under the Partnership Debt Agreements, which could cause indebtedness under the Partnership Debt Agreements to become due and payable. If the repayment obligations under the Partnership Debt Agreements were to be accelerated, the Partnership may not be able to repay the debt or refinance the debt on acceptable terms and the Partnership's financial position would be materially adversely affected. A material adverse effect on the Partnership's assets, liabilities, financial condition, business or operations, that, taken as a whole, impacts the Partnership's ability to perform the obligations under the Partnership Debt Agreements could lead to a default under those agreements. Further, a default under one or more of the Partnership Debt Agreements would trigger cross-default provisions under the other Partnership Debt Agreements, which would accelerate the Partnership's obligation to repay the indebtedness under those agreements.. As of December 31, 2017, we were in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Facility. As of December 31, 2017, the Partnership was in compliance with all covenants under the Partnership Debt Agreements.. 26. Table of Contents. We may be unable to access the capital and credit markets or borrow on affordable terms to obtain additional capital that we may require.. Historically, we have financed acquisitions, operating expenditures and capital expenditures with a combination of cash provided by operating and financing activities. However, to the extent we are unable to finance our operating expenditures, capital expenditures, scheduled interest and debt repayments and any future dividends with net cash provided by operating activities and borrowings under our Credit Facility and the Partnership Credit Facility, we may require additional capital. Periods of instability in the capital and credit markets (both generally and in the oil and gas industry in particular) could limit our ability to access these markets to raise debt or equity capital on affordable terms or to obtain additional financing. Among other things, our lenders may seek to increase interest rates, enact tighter lending standards, refuse to refinance existing debt at maturity at favorable terms or at all and may reduce or cease to provide funding to us. If we are unable to access the capital and credit markets on favorable terms, or if we are not successful in raising capital within the time period required or at all, we may not be able to grow or maintain our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We could be adversely affected by violations of the FCPA, similar worldwide anti-corruption laws and trade control laws.. The FCPA and similar laws and regulations of other countries prohibit improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or gaining any business advantage. Prior to the Spin-off, we operated in many parts of the world that experience high levels of corruption and our business would bring us in frequent contact with foreign officials. Our compliance policies and programs mandate compliance with all applicable anti-corruption laws but may not be completely effective in ensuring our compliance. Our training and compliance program and our internal control policies and procedures may not always protect us from violations committed by our employees or agents. Actual or alleged violations of these laws could disrupt our business and cause us to incur significant legal expenses, and could result in a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. As noted in the risk factor \"The restatement of our financial statements as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 and for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 expose us to additional risks and uncertainties, including regulatory, stockholder or other actions, loss of investor and counterparty confidence and negative impacts on our stock price\" above, the SEC investigation in connection with the accounting errors and circumstances that gave rise to the restatement also includes an investigation of FCPA matters, and we and Exterran Corporation have been cooperating in the investigation. A violation of the FCPA or other anti-corruption law violations due to our own acts or omissions or due to the acts or omissions of others could result in severe civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions, which could materially harm our reputation, business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price.. Our ability to manage and grow our business effectively may be adversely affected if we lose management or operational personnel.. We believe that our ability to hire, train and retain qualified personnel will continue to be challenging and important. The supply of experienced operational and field personnel, in particular, decreases as other energy companies' needs for the same personnel increase. Our ability to grow and to continue our current level of service to our customers will be adversely impacted if we are unable to successfully hire, train and retain these important personnel.. The erosion of the financial condition of our customers could adversely affect our business.. Many of our customers finance their exploration and production activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. During times when the oil or natural gas markets weaken, our customers are more likely to experience a downturn in their financial condition. Additionally, some of our midstream customers may provide their gathering, transportation and related services to a limited number of companies in the oil and gas production business. A reduction in borrowing bases under reserve-based credit facilities, the lack of availability of debt or equity financing or other factors that negatively impact our customers' financial condition could result in a reduction in our customers' spending for our products and services, which may result in their cancellation of contracts, the cancellation or delay of scheduled maintenance of their existing natural gas compression equipment, their determination not to enter into new natural gas compression service contracts or their determination to cancel or delay orders for our services. Furthermore, the loss by our midstream customers of their key customers could reduce demand for their services and result in a deterioration of their financial condition, which would in turn decrease their demand for our services. Any such action by our customers would reduce demand for our services. Reduced demand for our services could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, in the event of the financial failure of a customer, we could experience a loss on all or a portion of our outstanding accounts receivable associated with that customer.. 27. Table of Contents. The loss of our business with Williams Partners or the inability or failure of Williams Partners to meet its payment obligations may adversely affect our and the Partnership's financial results, which could limit the amount of cash the Partnership has available for distribution to its equity holders, including us.. During the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, Williams Partners accounted for 13%, 13% and 12%, of our revenue, respectively. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenue during these years.. There is no guarantee that, upon the expiration of the Partnership's existing services agreements with Williams Partners, Williams Partners will choose to renew these existing services agreements or enter into similar agreements with the Partnership. The loss of business with Williams Partners, unless offset by additional contract compression services revenue from other customers, or the inability or failure of Williams Partners to meet its payment obligations under contractual arrangements, could have a material adverse effect on the Partnership's business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to its equity holders, including us, and on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay cash dividends.. The loss of any of our most significant customers would result in a decline in our revenue and cash available to pay distributions to our common unitholders.. Our five most significant customers collectively accounted for approximately 29% and 31% of our revenue for each of the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Our services are provided to these customers pursuant to contract compression services agreements, which typically have an initial term of twelve-months and continue thereafter until terminated by either party with 30 days' advance notice.  The loss of all or even a portion of the services we provide to these customers, as a result of competition or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The completed Spin-off of our international contract operations, international aftermarket services and global fabrication businesses could result in substantial tax liability to us and our stockholders.. Historically, companies seeking to perform a tax-free spin-off transaction have been able to seek broad private letter rulings from the IRS that the proposed spin-off transaction would qualify for tax-free treatment, with the exception of certain issues on which the IRS would not rule. However, in 2013 the IRS announced that it would no longer provide such broad advance rulings but would instead rule only on certain \"significant issues.\" We did not request a ruling from the IRS regarding the Spin-off. Prior to completing the Spin-off, we did receive an opinion of counsel that the Spin-off should qualify as reorganization under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, and, as a result, neither we nor our stockholders should recognize any gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a result of the Spin-off. However, this opinion is not binding on the IRS or any court. Accordingly, the IRS or the courts may reach conclusions with respect to the Spin-off that are different from the conclusions reached in the opinion of counsel. If the Spin-off and certain related transactions were determined to be taxable to us, we would be subject to a substantial tax liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if the Spin-off were taxable to our stockholders, each holder of our common stock who received shares of Exterran Corporation would generally be treated as having received a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares received.. We may face challenges as a result of being a smaller, less diversified business than we were prior to the Spin-off.. In connection with the Spin-off, our international contract operations, international aftermarket services and fabrication operations and certain of our logistical capabilities and operational efficiencies were contributed to Exterran Corporation, and certain of our key personnel became employees of Exterran Corporation. Because our business after the Spin-off represents a subset of our business immediately prior to the Spin-off, we have access to a smaller pool of assets, fewer personnel, less geographic diversity and less operational diversity, among other challenges, than we did prior to the Spin-off. As a result, we are a smaller and less diversified company with more limited financial resources and operational capabilities, and we may be unable to attract or retain customers that prefer to contract with more diversified companies that are able to operate on a larger scale than us. In addition, as a smaller and less diversified business, we may be more adversely impacted by changes in our business than we would have been prior to the Spin-off. For example, the impact of certain events on our business prior to the Spin-off may not have been material to our operations at such time, but similar events may have a material impact on our business following the Spin-off. We may also be less capable of providing the Partnership with certain financial and operational support that we were capable of providing to the Partnership prior to the Spin-off. In addition, because we are a smaller and less diversified business following the Spin-off, certain legal proceedings may have greater impact on our business following the Spin-off than they did before the Spin-off. Each of these events could negatively impact our business and cause our financial condition and results of operations to suffer.. 28. Table of Contents. We are subject to continuing contingent tax liabilities following the Spin-off.. In connection with the Spin-off, we entered into a tax matters agreement with Exterran Corporation that allocates the responsibility for prior period taxes of the Exterran Holdings consolidated U.S. federal and state tax reporting group between us and Exterran Corporation. If Exterran Corporation is unable to pay any prior period taxes related to these consolidated U.S. federal and state tax filings for which it is responsible, we would be required to pay the entire amount of such taxes.. We might not be able to engage in desirable strategic transactions and equity issuances because of certain restrictions relating to requirements for tax-free distributions.. Our ability to engage in significant equity transactions could be limited or restricted in order to preserve, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the tax-free nature of the Spin-off. Even if the Spin-off otherwise qualifies for tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Code, it may result in corporate-level taxable gain to us under Section 355(e) of the Code if there is a 50% or greater change in ownership, by vote or value, of shares of our stock, Exterran Corporation's stock or the stock of a successor either occurring as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the Spin-off. Any acquisitions or issuances of our stock or Exterran Corporation's stock within two years after the Spin-off are generally presumed to be part of such a plan, although we or Exterran Corporation may be able to rebut that presumption.. Under the tax matters agreement that we entered into with Exterran Corporation, we are prohibited from taking or failing to take any action that prevents the Spin-off from being tax-free.. These restrictions may limit our ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in new business or other transactions that may maximize the value of our business. Moreover, the tax matters agreement also may provide that we are responsible for any taxes imposed on us or any of our affiliates as a result of the failure of the Spin-off to qualify for favorable treatment under the Code if such failure is attributable to certain actions taken after the Spin-off by or in respect of us, any of our affiliates or our shareholders.. The Spin-off may expose us to potential liabilities arising out of state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal dividend requirements.. The Spin-off is subject to review under various state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws. Under these laws, if a court in a lawsuit by an unpaid creditor or an entity vested with the power of such creditor (including without limitation a trustee or debtor-in-possession in a bankruptcy by us or any of our respective subsidiaries) were to determine that we or any of our subsidiaries did not receive fair consideration or reasonably equivalent value for distributing our common stock or taking other action as part of the Spin-off, or that we or any of our subsidiaries did not receive fair consideration or reasonably equivalent value for incurring indebtedness, including the borrowings incurred by us under the Credit Facility in connection with the Spin-off, transferring assets or taking other action as part of the Spin-off and, at the time of such action, we, Exterran Corporation or any of our respective subsidiaries (i) was insolvent or would be rendered insolvent, (ii) lacked reasonably sufficient capital to carry on its business and all business in which it intended to engage or (iii) intended to incur, or believed it would incur, debts beyond its ability to repay such debts as they would mature, then such court could void the Spin-off as a constructive fraudulent transfer. If such court made this determination, the court could impose a number of different remedies, including without limitation, voiding our liens and claims against Exterran Corporation or providing Exterran Corporation with a claim for money damages against us in an amount equal to the difference between the consideration received by Exterran Corporation and the fair market value of our company at the time of the Spin-off.. The measure of insolvency for purposes of the fraudulent conveyance laws will vary depending on which jurisdiction's law is applied. Generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent if the present fair saleable value of its assets is less than (i) the amount of its liabilities (including contingent liabilities) or (ii) the amount that will be required to pay its probable liabilities on its existing debts as they become absolute and mature. No assurance can be given as to what standard a court would apply to determine insolvency or that a court would determine that we, Exterran Corporation or any of our respective subsidiaries were solvent at the time of or after giving effect to the Spin-off, including the distribution of the Exterran Corporation common stock.. Under the separation and distribution agreement we entered into in connection with the Spin-off, from and after the Spin-off, each of Exterran Corporation and we are responsible for the debts, liabilities and other obligations related to the business or businesses which it owns and operates following the consummation of the Spin-off. Although we do not expect to be liable for any such obligations not expressly assumed by us pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, it is possible that a court would disregard the allocation agreed to between the parties, and require that we assume responsibility for obligations allocated to Exterran Corporation, particularly if Exterran Corporation were to refuse or were unable to pay or perform the subject allocated obligations.. 29. Table of Contents. Many of our contract operations services contracts have short initial terms and are cancelable on short notice after the initial term, and we cannot be sure that such contracts will be extended or renewed after the end of the initial contractual term. Any such nonrenewals, or renewals at reduced rates or the loss of contracts with any significant customer could adversely impact our results of operations.. The length of our contract operations services contracts with customers varies based on operating conditions and customer needs. Our initial contract terms typically are not long enough to enable us to recoup the cost of the equipment we utilize to provide contract operations services and these contracts are typically cancelable on short notice after the initial term. We cannot be sure that a substantial number of these contracts will be extended or renewed by our customers or that any of our customers will continue to contract with us. The inability to negotiate extensions or renew a substantial portion of our contract operations services contracts, the renewal of such contracts at reduced rates, the inability to contract for additional services with our customers or the loss of all or a significant portion of our services contracts with any significant customer could lead to a reduction in revenues and net income and could require us to record additional asset impairments. This could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We depend on particular suppliers and are vulnerable to product shortages and price increases. With respect to our suppliers of newly-fabricated compression equipment specifically, we occasionally experience long lead times, and therefore may at times make purchases in anticipation of future business. If we are unable to purchase compression equipment (or other integral equipment, materials and services) from third party suppliers, we may be unable to retain existing customers or compete for new customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Some equipment, materials and services used in our business are obtained from a single source or a limited group of suppliers. Our reliance on these suppliers involves several risks, including price increases, inferior quality and a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of such equipment, materials and services in a timely manner. Additionally, we occasionally experience long lead times from our suppliers of newly-fabricated compression equipment and may at times make purchases in anticipation of future business. We do not have long-term contracts with some of these suppliers, and the partial or complete loss of certain of these sources could have a negative impact on our results of operations and could damage our customer relationships. Further, a significant increase in the price of such equipment, materials and services could have a negative impact on our results of operations.. If we are unable to purchase compression equipment in particular on a timely basis to meet the demands of our customers, our existing customers may terminate their contractual relationships with us, or we may not be able to compete for business from new or existing customers, which, in each case, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The tax treatment of publicly-traded partnerships or our investment in the Partnership units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes or differing interpretations, possibly applied on a retroactive basis.. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of our investment in the Partnership depends largely on it being treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly-traded partnerships, including the Partnership, or our investment in the Partnership may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time.. From time to time, members of Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that affect publicly-traded partnerships. Although there is no current legislative proposal, and one was not included in the TCJA, a prior legislative proposal would have eliminated the qualifying income exception to the treatment of all publicly-traded partnerships as corporations upon which the Partnership relies for its treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Despite the fact that the Partnership is organized as a limited partnership under Delaware law, it would be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes unless at least 90% of its gross income is ''qualifying income'' under Section 7704(d)(1)(E) of the Code.. The Partnership has requested and obtained favorable private letter rulings from the IRS with respect to the characterization of certain of its income as qualifying income. In addition, on January 24, 2017, final regulations regarding which activities give rise to qualifying income within the meaning of Section 7704 of the Code (the \"Final Regulations\") were published in the Federal Register. The Final Regulations were effective as of January 19, 2017 and apply to taxable years beginning on or after January 19, 2017. We do not believe the Final Regulations affect the Partnership's ability to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible for the Partnership to meet the exception for certain publicly-traded partnerships to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. 30. Table of Contents. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. Any such legislative changes could cause the Partnership to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject it to taxation as an entity if its gross income is not properly classified as qualifying income. If the Partnership was treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, its cash available for distribution, including to us as holders of Partnership units, would be substantially reduced. Further, distributions to unitholders, including us, would generally be taxed as corporate distributions and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to unitholders. Therefore, treatment of the Partnership as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the unitholders, which would cause a substantial reduction in the value of our investment in the Partnership and in the amount of distributions that we receive from the Partnership, which would reduce the amount of cash available for payment of our debt, payment of dividends and the funding of our business requirements, and as a result would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay cash dividends.. From time to time, we are subject to various claims, tax audits, litigation and other proceedings that could ultimately be resolved against us, requiring material future cash payments or charges, which could impair our financial condition or results of operations.. The size, nature and complexity of our business make us susceptible to various claims, tax audits, litigation and binding arbitration proceedings. We are currently, and may in the future become, subject to various claims, which, if not resolved within amounts we have accrued, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows, including our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Similarly, any claims, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future. See Part I, Item 3 (\"Legal Proceedings\") and also Note 20 (\"Commitments and Contingencies\") to our Financial Statements for additional information regarding certain legal proceedings to which we are a party.. We face significant competitive pressures that may cause us to lose market share and harm our financial performance.. Our business is highly competitive and there are low barriers to entry, especially our natural gas compression services. Our competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to technological changes within our industry and changes in economic and market conditions, more readily take advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities and adopt more aggressive pricing policies. Our ability to renew or replace existing contract operations service contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenue and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors. If our competitors substantially increase the resources they devote to the development and marketing of competitive products, equipment or services or substantially decrease the price at which they offer their products, equipment or services, we may not be able to compete effectively.. In addition, we could face significant competition from new entrants into the compression services business. Some of our existing competitors or new entrants may expand or fabricate new compression units that would create additional competition for the services we provide to our customers. In addition, our customers may purchase and operate their own compressor fleets in lieu of using our natural gas compression services. We also may not be able to take advantage of certain opportunities or make certain investments because of our debt levels and our other obligations. Any of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be vulnerable to interest rate increases due to our floating rate debt obligations.. As of December 31, 2017, after taking into consideration interest rate swaps, we had $230.3 million of outstanding indebtedness that was effectively subject to floating interest rates. Changes in economic conditions outside of our control could result in higher interest rates, thereby increasing our interest expense and reducing the funds available for capital investment, operations or other purposes. A 1% increase in the effective interest rate on our outstanding debt subject to floating interest rates at December 31, 2017 would result in an annual increase in our interest expense of $2.3 million. In addition, a substantial portion of the Partnership's cash flow must be used to service its debt obligations. Any increase in the Partnership's interest expense could reduce the amount of cash the Partnership has available for distribution to its equity holders, including us, and as a result negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows, including our ability to pay dividends in the future.. 31. Table of Contents. Our operations entail inherent risks that may result in substantial liability. We do not insure against all potential losses and could be seriously harmed by unexpected liabilities.. Our operations entail inherent risks, including equipment defects, malfunctions and failures and natural disasters, which could result in uncontrollable flows of natural gas or well fluids, fires and explosions. These risks may expose us, as an equipment operator, to liability for personal injury, wrongful death, property damage, pollution and other environmental damage. The insurance we carry against many of these risks may not be adequate to cover our claims or losses. In addition, we are substantially self-insured for workers' compensation, employer's liability, property, auto liability, general liability and employee group health claims in view of the relatively high per-incident deductibles we absorb under our insurance arrangements for these risks. Further, insurance covering the risks we expect to face or in the amounts we desire may not be available in the future or, if available, the premiums may not be commercially justifiable. If we were to incur substantial liability and such damages were not covered by insurance or were in excess of policy limits, or if we were to incur liability at a time when we are not able to obtain liability insurance, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted.. Threats of cyber attacks or terrorism could affect our business.. We may be threatened by problems such as cyber attacks, computer viruses or terrorism that may disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. Our industry requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. Despite our implementation of security measures, our technology systems are vulnerable to disability or failures due to hacking, viruses, acts of war or terrorism and other causes. If our information technology systems were to fail and we were unable to recover in a timely way, we might be unable to fulfill critical business functions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, our assets may be targets of terrorist activities that could disrupt our ability to service our customers. We may be required by our regulators or by the future terrorist threat environment to make investments in security that we cannot currently predict. The implementation of security guidelines and measures and maintenance of insurance, to the extent available, addressing such activities could increase costs. These types of events could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, these types of events could require significant management attention and resources and could adversely affect our reputation among customers and the public.. U.S. federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing as well as governmental reviews of such activities could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays in the completion of oil and natural gas wells and adversely affect demand for our contract operations services.. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of natural gas and/or oil from dense subsurface rock formations. We do not perform hydraulic fracturing, but many of our customers do. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand or alternative proppant and chemicals under pressure into target geological formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. Hydraulic fracturing is typically regulated by state agencies, but recently, there has been increased public concern regarding an alleged potential for hydraulic fracturing to adversely affect drinking water supplies, and proposals have been made to enact separate U.S. federal, state and local legislation that would increase the regulatory burden imposed on hydraulic fracturing.. For example, at the U.S. federal level, the EPA issued an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to collect data on chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing operations under Section 8 of the Toxic Substances Control Act and proposed regulations under the CWA governing wastewater discharges from hydraulic fracturing and certain other natural gas operations. On March 26, 2015, the BLM released a final rule that updates existing regulation of hydraulic fracturing activities on U.S. federal lands, including requirements for chemical disclosure, wellbore integrity and handling of flowback water. The final rule never went into effect due to pending litigation and on December 28, 2017, the BLM announced that it had rescinded the 2015 final rule, in part citing a review that found that 32 of the 32 states with federal oil and gas leases have regulations that already address hydraulic fracturing.. 32. Table of Contents. At the state level, several states have adopted or are considering legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. For example in May 2013, the Texas Railroad Commission adopted new rules governing well casing, cementing and other standards for ensuring that hydraulic fracturing operations do not contaminate nearby water resources. Local governments may also seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular or prohibit the performance of well drilling in general or hydraulic fracturing in particular. If new or more stringent U.S. federal, state or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where our natural gas exploration and production customers operate, those customers could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells. Any such restrictions could reduce demand for our contract operations services, and as a result could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. New regulations, proposed regulations and proposed modifications to existing regulations under the CAA, if implemented, could result in increased compliance costs.. On June 3, 2016, the EPA issued final regulations amending the NSPS for the oil and natural gas source category and applying to sources of emissions of methane and VOC from certain processes, activities and equipment that is constructed, modified or reconstructed after September 18, 2015. Specifically, the regulation contains both methane and VOC standards for several emission sources not currently covered by the NSPS, such as fugitive emissions from compressor stations and pneumatic pumps and methane standards for certain emission sources that are already regulated for VOC, such as equipment leaks at natural gas processing plants. The amendments also establish methane standards for a subset of equipment that the current NSPS regulates, including reciprocating compressors and pneumatic controllers, and extend the current VOC standards to the remaining unregulated equipment. In June 2017, the EPA published a proposed rule to stay certain portions of the June 2016 standards for two years and reevaluate the entirety of the 2016 standards, but the EPA has not yet published a final rule and, as a result, the June 2016 rule remains in effect but future implementation of the 2016 standards is uncertain at this time. It is anticipated that the EPA will attempt to make additional deregulatory changes to the NSPS going forward. At this time, we do not believe the rule will have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. On November 18, 2016, the BLM published final rules to reduce venting and flaring on federal and tribal lands. The rules required leak detection inspections at compressor stations and imposed requirements to reduce emissions from pneumatic controllers and pumps, among other things. On December 8, 2017, the BLM, to avoid imposing compliance costs on operators for requirements that may be rescinded or significantly revised in the near future, issued a temporary suspension or delay of certain requirements of those rules to give themselves sufficient time to review and consider revising or rescinding its requirements.  Both the requirements in the rule that had yet to be implemented and certain requirements of the rule that were in effect at the time were postponed and suspended until January 17, 2019. The rule could have required us to incur material costs to comply. It is unclear at this time whether any additional changes to the rule will change the cost to us.. On October 1, 2015, the EPA issued a new NAAQS ozone standard of 70 ppb, which is a reduction from the 75 ppb standard set in 2008. This new standard became effective on December 28, 2015. During 2017, the states began submitting updated lists of likely attainment/non-attainment regions under the revised ozone standard utilizing air quality data collected between 2014 and 2016. In November 2017, the EPA proposed its attainment/non-attainment designations based on the states' submissions, but notified the states in December 2017 that it will postpone finalizing those designations until the Spring of 2018 pending any additional public comment period and any air quality data from 2017 the states may wish to submit. State implementation of the revised NAAQS could result in stricter permitting requirements, delay or prohibit our customers' ability to obtain such permits and result in increased expenditures for pollution control equipment, the costs of which could be significant.. In January 2011, the TCEQ finalized revisions to certain air permit programs that significantly increase air emissions-related requirements for new and certain existing oil and gas production and gathering sites in the Barnett Shale production area. The final rule established new emissions standards for engines, which could impact the operation of specific categories of engines by requiring the use of alternative engines, compressor packages or the installation of aftermarket emissions control equipment. The rule became effective for the Barnett Shale production area in April 2011, and the lower emissions standards will become applicable between 2020 and 2030 depending on the type of engine and the permitting requirements. A number of other states where our engines are operated have adopted or are considering adopting additional regulations that could impose new air permitting or pollution control requirements for engines, some of which could entail material costs to comply. At this time, however, we cannot predict whether any such rules would require us to incur material costs.. 33. Table of Contents. Finally, on June 3, 2016, the EPA issued final rules under the CAA regarding criteria for aggregating multiple sites into a single source for air-quality permitting purposes applicable to the oil and gas industry. This rule could cause small facilities, such as compressor stations, on an aggregate basis, to be deemed a major source, thereby triggering more stringent air permitting requirements, which in turn could result in operational delays or require the installation of costly pollution control equipment. At this time, however, we cannot predict whether any such rules will require us to incur material costs.. These new regulations and proposals, when finalized, and any other new regulations requiring the installation of more sophisticated pollution control equipment or the adoption of other environmental protection measures, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are subject to a variety of governmental regulations; failure to comply with these regulations may result in administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures and changes in these regulations could increase our costs or liabilities.. We are subject to a variety of U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations, including relating to the environment, health and safety, labor and employment and taxation. Many of these laws and regulations are complex, change frequently, are becoming increasingly stringent, and the cost of compliance with these requirements can be expected to increase over time. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including assessment of monetary penalties, imposition of remedial requirements and issuance of injunctions as to future compliance. From time to time, as part of our operations, including newly acquired operations, we may be subject to compliance audits by regulatory authorities in the various states in which we operate.. Environmental laws and regulations may, in certain circumstances, impose strict liability for environmental contamination, which may render us liable for remediation costs, natural resource damages and other damages as a result of our conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior owners or operators or other third parties. In addition, where contamination may be present, it is not uncommon for neighboring land owners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury, property damage and recovery of response costs. Remediation costs and other damages arising as a result of environmental laws and regulations, and costs associated with new information, changes in existing environmental laws and regulations or the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations could be substantial and could negatively impact our financial condition, profitability and results of operations. Moreover, failure to comply with these environmental laws and regulations may result in the imposition of administrative, civil and criminal penalties and the issuance of injunctions delaying or prohibiting operations.. We may need to apply for or amend facility permits or licenses from time to time with respect to storm water or wastewater discharges, waste handling, or air emissions relating to manufacturing activities or equipment operations, which subjects us to new or revised permitting conditions that may be onerous or costly to comply with. In addition, certain of our customer service arrangements may require us to operate, on behalf of a specific customer, petroleum storage units such as underground tanks or pipelines and other regulated units, all of which may impose additional compliance and permitting obligations.. We conduct operations at numerous facilities in a wide variety of locations across the continental U.S. The operations at many of these facilities require environmental permits or other authorizations. Additionally, natural gas compressors at many of our customers' facilities require individual air permits or general authorizations to operate under various air regulatory programs established by rule or regulation. These permits and authorizations frequently contain numerous compliance requirements, including monitoring and reporting obligations and operational restrictions, such as emission limits. Given the large number of facilities in which we operate, and the numerous environmental permits and other authorizations that are applicable to our operations, we may occasionally identify or be notified of technical violations of certain requirements existing in various permits or other authorizations. Occasionally, we have been assessed penalties for our non-compliance, and we could be subject to such penalties in the future.. We routinely deal with natural gas, oil and other petroleum products. Hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances or wastes may have been disposed or released on, under or from properties used by us to provide contract operations services or inactive compression storage or on or under other locations where such substances or wastes have been taken for disposal. These properties may be subject to investigatory, remediation and monitoring requirements under environmental laws and regulations.. The modification or interpretation of existing environmental laws or regulations, the more vigorous enforcement of existing environmental laws or regulations, or the adoption of new environmental laws or regulations may also negatively impact oil and natural gas exploration and production, gathering and pipeline companies, including our customers, which in turn could have a negative impact on us.. 34. Table of Contents. Climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives could result in increased compliance costs.. The U.S. Congress has previously considered legislation to restrict or regulate emissions of greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide and methane. It presently appears unlikely that comprehensive federal climate legislation will become law in the near future, although energy legislation and other initiatives continue to be proposed that may be relevant to greenhouse gas emissions issues. Almost half of the states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, have begun to address greenhouse gas emissions, primarily through the planned development of emission inventories or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. Although most of the state-level initiatives have to date been focused on large sources of greenhouse gas emissions, such as electric power plants, it is possible that smaller sources such as our gas-fired compressors could become subject to greenhouse gas-related regulation. Depending on the particular program, we could be required to control emissions or to purchase and surrender allowances for greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our operations.. Independent of Congress, the EPA has promulgated regulations controlling greenhouse gas emissions under its existing CAA authority. The EPA has adopted rules requiring many facilities, including petroleum and natural gas systems, to inventory and report their greenhouse gas emissions. These reporting obligations were triggered for some sites we operated in 2017.. In addition, the EPA rules provide air permitting requirements for certain large sources of greenhouse gas emissions. The requirement for large sources of greenhouse gas emissions to obtain and comply with permits will affect some of our and our customers' largest new or modified facilities going forward, but is not expected to cause us to incur material costs.. At the international level, the United States joined the international community at the 21st Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Paris, France, which resulted in the Paris Agreement that requires member countries to review and ''represent a progression'' in their intended nationally determined contributions, and set greenhouse gas emission reduction goals every five years beginning in 2020. The Paris Agreement entered into force in November 2016. Although this agreement does not create any binding obligations for nations to limit their greenhouse gas emissions, it does include pledges from the participating nations to voluntarily limit or reduce future emissions. In June 2017, President Trump stated that the United States intends to withdraw from the Paris Agreement, but may enter into a future international agreement related to greenhouse gases on different terms. The Paris Agreement provides for a four-year exit process beginning when it took effect in November 2016, which would result in an effective exit date of November 2020. The United States' adherence to the exit process is uncertain and/or the terms on which the United States may reenter the Paris Agreement or a separately negotiated agreement are unclear at this time.. Although it is not currently possible to predict how any proposed or future greenhouse gas legislation or regulation promulgated by Congress, the states or multi-state regions will impact our business, any regulation of greenhouse gas emissions that may be imposed in areas in which we conduct business could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions or reduced demand for our services, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The price of our common stock and the Partnership's common units may be volatile.. Some of the factors that could affect the price of our common stock are quarterly increases or decreases in revenue or earnings, the amount of distributions we receive from the Partnership, the amount of dividend payments we make, changes in interest rates, changes in revenue or earnings estimates by the investment community and speculation in the press or investment community about our financial condition or results of operations. General market conditions and U.S. or international economic factors and political events unrelated to our performance may also affect our stock price. In addition, the price of our common stock may be impacted by changes in the value of our investment in and/or distributions from the Partnership. For these reasons, investors should not rely on recent trends in the price of our common stock to predict the future price of our common stock or our financial results.. 35. Table of Contents. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would result in the purchase of our stockholders' shares of common stock at a premium to the market price or would otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders.. There are provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would result in the purchase of our stockholders' shares of common stock at a premium to the market price or would otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. For example, our restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. If our board of directors elects to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, such as limitations on stockholder actions by written consent and on stockholder proposals at meetings of stockholders, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. Delaware corporation law may also discourage takeover attempts that have not been approved by the board of directors."
