[1] "ITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY AND BUSINESS STRATEGY. Our product candidates are in preclinical and clinical stages of development and we may not successfully develop a product candidate that becomes a commercially viable drug.. The discovery and development of drugs is inherently risky and involves a high rate of failure. We do not have extensive experience in discovery and development of commercial drugs. Our product candidates and drug research programs will continue to require significant, time-consuming and costly research and development, testing and regulatory approvals.. In addition to our clinical stage programs, we have a limited number of preclinical and research-stage programs in our pipeline. Our viability as a company may depend, in part, on our ability to continue to create product candidates for ourselves and our collaborators. Numerous significant factors will affect the success of our drug research and development efforts, including the biology and chemistry complexity. 20. TABLE OF CONTENTS. involved, availability of appropriate technologies, the uncertainty of the scientific process and the capabilities and performance of our employees. Our research and development capabilities may not be adequate to develop additional, viable drug candidates.. We must show the safety and efficacy of our product candidates through expensive, time consuming preclinical testing and clinical trials, the results of which are uncertain and governed by exacting regulations.. Our product candidates are in clinical or preclinical stages of development and may not prove to be sufficiently safe or effective in more advanced human clinical trials. We will need to conduct extensive further testing of all of our product candidates, expend significant additional resources and possibly partner emerging programs to realize commercial value from any of our product candidates.. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of our products, we and our collaboration partners must demonstrate through preclinical studies (laboratory or animal testing) and clinical trials (human testing) that our proposed products are safe and effective for use in each target indication. This testing is expensive and time-consuming, and failure can occur at any stage. If we terminate a preclinical or clinical program, we will have expended resources in an effort that will not provide a return on our investment and missed the opportunity to have allocated those resources to potentially more productive uses.. Clinical trials must meet FDA and foreign regulatory requirements. We have limited experience in designing, conducting and managing the preclinical studies and clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates in any country. We or our collaboration partners may encounter problems in clinical trials that may cause us or the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies to delay, suspend or terminate our clinical trials at any phase. These problems could include our inability to manufacture or obtain sufficient quantities of materials produced in accordance with current Good Manufacturing Practice, or cGMP, for use in our clinical trials, conduct clinical trials at our preferred sites, enroll a sufficient number of patients for our clinical trials at one or more sites, or begin or successfully complete clinical trials in a timely fashion, if at all. Furthermore, we, the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies may suspend clinical trials of our product candidates at any time if we or they believe the subjects participating in the trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks as a result of adverse events occurring in our trials or if we or they find deficiencies in the clinical trial process or conduct of the investigation.. Acceptable results from initial preclinical studies and clinical trials of products under development are not necessarily indicative of results that will be obtained from subsequent or more extensive preclinical studies and clinical testing in humans. Clinical trials may not demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain the required regulatory approvals or result in marketable products. Failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a product under development will delay and could prevent its regulatory approval.. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including ArQule and other biotechnology companies, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after generating promising results in earlier trials. For example, a positive randomized Phase 2 trial for tivantinib in HCC did not lead to a positive outcome in our Phase 3 trials in HCC.. Although it is part of our strategy to pursue clinical development to take advantage of available accelerated regulatory approval processes, there is no guarantee that our product candidates will show the evidence predictive of clinical benefit necessary to qualify for such regulatory treatment.. Delays in clinical testing could result in increased costs to us and delay our ability to obtain regulatory approval and commercialize our product candidates.. Clinical trials typically take several years to complete. The duration and cost of clinical trials vary greatly depending on the phase of development and the nature, complexity, and intended use of the drug being tested. Even if the results of our clinical trials are favorable, the clinical trials of our product candidates may take significantly longer than expected to complete. Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing for any of our product candidates could significantly affect our product development costs and business plan.. 21. TABLE OF CONTENTS. At any time, a clinical trial can be placed on \"clinical hold\" or temporarily or permanently stopped for a variety of reasons, principally for safety concerns. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent us from receiving regulatory approval or commercializing our product candidates, including the following:. •. our clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical and/or preclinical testing or to provide additional information about formulation or manufacture of our product candidates or clinical trial design or to abandon programs;. •. we may experience delays related to reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical research organizations, or CROs, clinical investigators and trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs, clinical investigators and trial sites;. •. we may be unable to source suitable diagnostic tests for our trials in targeted patient populations;. •. we may be unable to manufacture or obtain sufficient quantities of a product candidate for use in clinical trials;. •. trial results may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or other regulatory agencies;. •. enrollment in our clinical trials for our product candidates may be slower than we anticipate, resulting in significant delays;. •. we, or regulators, may suspend or terminate our clinical trials if the participating patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks;. •. the effects of our product candidates on patients may not have the desired therapeutic result or may have undesirable side effects that could delay or preclude regulatory approval or limit their commercial use, if approved; and. •. the FDA or other regulatory agencies may lack experience in evaluating the safety and efficacy of our drugs, which could lengthen the regulatory review process.. Completion and duration of clinical trials depends on, among other things, our ability to enroll a sufficient number of patients, which is a function of many factors, including:. •. the incidence among the general population of diseases which contain therapeutic endpoints chosen for evaluation;. •. the eligibility criteria defined in the protocol;. •. the size of the patient population required for analysis of the trial's therapeutic endpoints;. •. our ability to recruit clinical trial investigators and sites with the appropriate competencies and experience;. •. our ability to obtain and maintain patient consents; and. •. competition for patients by clinical trial programs for other treatments.. Clinical trials may also be delayed or repeated as a result of ambiguous or negative interim results or unforeseen complications in testing. In addition, a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us, the FDA, the institutional review board (\"IRB\") overseeing the clinical trial at issue, any of our clinical trial sites with respect to that site, or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including:. •. failure to design appropriate clinical trial protocols;. •. failure by us, our employees, our CROs or their employees to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with all applicable FDA, Drug Enforcement Administration (\"DEA\") or other regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols;. 22. TABLE OF CONTENTS. •. inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold;. •. discovery of serious or unexpected toxicities or side effects experienced by study participants or other unforeseen safety issues;. •. lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial, including the incurrence of unforeseen costs due to enrollment delays, requirements to conduct additional trials and studies and increased expenses associated with the services of our CROs and other third parties; lack of effectiveness of any product candidate during clinical trials;. •. slower than expected rates of subject recruitment and enrollment rates in clinical trials;. •. failure of our CROs or other third-party contractors to comply with all contractual requirements or to perform their services in a timely or acceptable manner;. •. inability or unwillingness of medical investigators to follow our clinical protocols; and. •. unfavorable results from on-going clinical trials and preclinical studies.. Additionally, changes in applicable regulatory requirements and guidance may occur, and we may need to amend clinical trial protocols to reflect these changes. Amendments may require us to resubmit our clinical trial protocols to IRBs for reexamination, which may impact the costs, timing or successful completion of a clinical trial. If we experience delays in completion of, or if we terminate, any of our clinical trials, the commercial prospects for our product candidates may be harmed, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. We have limited clinical development and commercialization experience.. We have limited experience conducting clinical trials and have never obtained regulatory approvals for any drug. We have not independently completed a Phase 3, or pivotal, clinical trial, filed an NDA or commercialized a drug. We have no experience as a company in the sale, marketing or distribution of pharmaceutical products and do not currently have a sales and marketing organization. Developing commercialization capabilities will be expensive and time-consuming, and could delay any product launch. We may not be able to develop a successful commercial organization. To the extent we are unable or determine not to acquire these resources internally, we will be forced to rely on third-party clinical investigators, clinical research organizations, marketing organizations or our collaboration partners as we did for our Phase 3 METIV-HCC trial. If we are unable to establish adequate capabilities independently or with others, our drug development and commercialization efforts could fail, and we may be unable to generate product revenues.. We depend substantially on the successful completion of Phase 3 or other pivotal clinical trials for our product candidates. The positive clinical results obtained for our product candidates in Phase 2 clinical studies may not be repeated in Phase 3.. We have experienced significant delays and obstacles in a number of clinical trials. Our product candidates are subject to the risks of failure inherent in pharmaceutical development. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the commercial sale of any product candidate, we and, as applicable, our collaborators must successfully complete Phase 3 or other pivotal clinical trials. Negative or inconclusive results of a Phase 3 or other pivotal clinical study could cause the FDA to require that we repeat it or conduct additional clinical studies or abandon further development of an indication or drug candidate.. If our drug discovery and development programs do not progress as anticipated, our revenue and stock price could be negatively impacted.. We estimate the timing of a variety of preclinical, clinical, regulatory and other milestones for planning purposes, including when a drug candidate is expected to enter clinical trials, how soon patients will be recruited and enrolled in these trials, when a clinical trial will be completed and when an application for regulatory approval will be filed. We base our estimates on facts that are currently known to us and on a variety of assumptions, many of which are beyond our control. If we or our collaborators do not achieve. 23. TABLE OF CONTENTS. milestones when anticipated our revenues and stock price could decline. In addition, our research and clinical testing may be delayed or abandoned if we or our competitors subsequently discover other compounds that show improved safety or efficacy compared to our product candidates, which could limit our ability to generate revenues, cause us to incur additional expense and cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION. We have incurred significant losses since our inception and anticipate that we will incur significant continued losses for the next several years, and our future profitability is uncertain.. From our inception in 1993 through December 31, 2017 we have incurred cumulative losses of approximately $534 million. These losses have resulted principally from the costs of our research and development activities, acquisitions, and enhancements to our technology. In the past we derived our revenue primarily from license and technology transfer fees and payments for compound deliveries associated with our discontinued chemistry services operations, research and development funding paid under our agreements with collaboration partners, and from milestone payments under collaboration agreements.. We expect that we will continue to incur significant expenses in order to fund research, development and commercialization of our drug candidates. We currently have a number of product candidates in various stages of clinical development. As a result, we will need to generate significant additional revenues to achieve profitability.. To attain profitability, we will need to develop clinical products successfully and market and sell them effectively, either by ourselves or with collaborators. We have never generated revenue from the commercialization of our product candidates, and there can be no guarantee that we will be able to do so. Even if were to generate product revenues and achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or grow profitability. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with the development of drugs, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if at all. If we fail to become profitable, or if we are unable to fund our continuing losses, we may be unable to continue our business.. We are party to a loan and security agreement that contains operating and financial covenants that may restrict our business and financing activities.. On January 6, 2017, we entered into a loan and security agreement with Oxford Finance LLC for a term loan to us in the principal amount of<U+2009> $15 million. Borrowings under this loan and security agreement are secured by substantially all of our assets, excluding certain intellectual property rights. The loan and security agreement restricts our ability, among other things, to:. •. sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of our business or property, subject to limited exceptions;. •. make material changes to our business or management;. •. enter into transactions resulting in significant changes to the voting control of our stock;. •. make certain changes to our organizational structure;. •. consolidate or merge with other entities or acquire other entities;. •. incur additional indebtedness or create encumbrances on our assets;. •. pay dividends, other than dividends paid solely in shares of our common stock, or make distributions on and, in certain cases, repurchase our stock;. •. enter into transactions with our affiliates;. •. repay subordinated indebtedness;. •. enter into certain exclusive licensing arrangements; or. •. make certain investments.. 24. TABLE OF CONTENTS. In addition, we are required under our loan agreement to comply with various affirmative operating covenants. The operating covenants and restrictions and obligations in our loan and security agreement, as well as any future financing agreements that we may enter into, may restrict our ability to finance our operations, engage in business activities or expand or fully pursue our business strategies. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to meet those covenants. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the loan and security agreement, which could cause all of the outstanding indebtedness under the facility to become immediately due and payable and eliminate our eligibility to receive additional loans under the agreement.. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash available to repay our debt obligations when they become due and payable, either when such obligations become due, when they mature, or in the event of a default, we may not be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, if at all, which may negatively impact our business operations and financial condition.. We may need substantial additional funding and due to global capital and credit market conditions or for other reasons, we may be unable to raise capital when needed, or on terms favorable to us, which could force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our drug discovery, product development and commercialization activities.. Volatility and disruption in the global capital and credit markets in recent years have led to a tightening of business credit and investment capital in the U.S. and internationally. If global economic and financial market conditions deteriorate or remain weak for an extended period of time, our efforts to raise capital will face additional difficulties.. Developing drugs, conducting clinical trials, and commercializing products are expensive. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including:. •. the progress and cost of our ongoing and future clinical trials and other research and development activities and our ability to share such costs of our clinical development efforts with third parties;. •. the costs and timing of obtaining regulatory approvals;. •. the costs of filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing all patent applications, claims, patents and other intellectual property rights;. •. the cost and timing of securing manufacturing capabilities for our clinical product candidates and commercial products, if any;. •. the costs and timing of commercializing our product candidates, including establishing or contracting for sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, if any such candidate receives regulatory approval for commercial sale; and. •. the costs of any acquisitions of or investments in businesses, products or technologies.. We may seek the capital necessary to fund our operations through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, or collaboration and licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders' ownership interests will be diluted and the terms of such securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect our stockholders' rights. Other debt-financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets and enter into covenants that would restrict certain business activities or our ability to incur further indebtedness. If we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish rights to certain product candidates that we might otherwise seek to develop or commercialize independently, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. There can be no assurance that sufficient funds will be available to us when required, on satisfactory terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain additional funds when needed, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate some of our development and commercialization programs, or obtain funds through other arrangements on unattractive terms, which could prevent us from successfully executing our business strategy.. We have federal and state net operating losses (\"NOL\") and research and development credit carryforwards which, if we were to become profitable, could be used to offset/defer federal and state income taxes. Such carryforwards may not, under certain circumstances related to changes in ownership of our stock, be available to us.. As of December 31, 2017, we had federal NOL, state NOL, and research and development credit carryforwards of approximately $409 million, $228 million and $28 million respectively, which expire at. 25. TABLE OF CONTENTS. various dates through 2037. Such carryforwards could potentially be used to offset certain future federal and state income tax liabilities. Utilization of carryforwards may be subject to a substantial annual limitation pursuant to Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, as well as similar state provisions due to ownership changes that have occurred previously or that could occur in the future. In general, an ownership change, as defined by Section 382, results from transactions increasing the ownership of certain stockholders or public groups in the stock of a corporation by more than 50 percentage points over a three-year period. We undertook a detailed study of our NOL and research and development credit carryforwards through January 31, 2018 to determine whether such amounts are likely to be limited by Sections 382 or 383. As a result of this analysis, we currently do not believe any Section 382 or 383 limitations will significantly impact our ability to offset income with available NOL and research and development credit carryforwards. However, future ownership changes under Section 382 may limit our ability to fully utilize these tax benefits. Any limitation may result in expiration of a portion of the carryforwards before utilization. If we are not able to utilize our carryforwards, we would be required to use our cash resources to pay taxes that would otherwise have been offset, thereby reducing our liquidity.. RISKS RELATED TO REGULATORY APPROVAL. Our product candidates are subject to a lengthy and uncertain regulatory process that may not result in the necessary regulatory approvals, which would adversely affect our ability to commercialize products. We have only limited experience in regulatory affairs.. Our product candidates, as well as the activities associated with their research, development and commercialization, are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA in the U.S. and by comparable authorities in other countries, for example EMA in the E.U. These regulations govern or influence the manufacturing, assessment of benefit and risk, safety, labeling, storage, commercialization and reimbursement of these products.. Failure to obtain regulatory approval for a product candidate would prevent us from commercializing that product candidate. We have not applied for or received regulatory approval to market any of our product candidates in any jurisdiction and have only limited experience in preparing and filing the applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals is expensive, can take many years, if approval is obtained at all, and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidate involved.. The regulatory process requires preclinical testing, and data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. In addition, the results of later trials may not confirm the positive results of earlier preclinical studies or trials. Delays or rejections may also be encountered based upon changes in regulatory policy for product approval during the period of product development and regulatory agency review. Changes in regulatory approval policy, regulations or statutes or the process for regulatory review during the development or approval phases of our product candidates may cause delays in the approval or rejection of an application.. A company first must conduct preclinical studies in the laboratory and in animal models to gain preliminary information on a candidate compound's activity and to identify potential safety problems. Preclinical studies must be conducted in accordance with applicable regulations of the relevant regulatory authority (e.g. the FDA in the U.S., the EMA in E.U.). The results of these studies are submitted as a part of an IND application with the FDA or a Clinical Trial Application (\"CTA\") with the appropriate regulatory authority outside of the U.S. The regulatory agency involved must review the data in the application before human clinical trials of an investigational drug can commence. If the regulatory authority does not object, a drug developer can begin clinical trials after expiration of a specified statutory period following submission of the application. Notwithstanding that the regulatory authority does not respond during the thirty-day, post-submission review period, the regulatory authority may at any time re-evaluate the adequacy of the application and require additional information about any aspect of the IND or CTA and corresponding clinical trial, e.g. preclinical testing, drug formulation and manufacture, dosing regimens and drug administration or potential safety risk. Before a new marketing application can be filed with the FDA or other regulatory authority, the product candidate must undergo extensive clinical trials. Any clinical trial may fail to produce results satisfactory to the regulatory authority, typically for lack of<U+2009> 'efficacy or for safety risks. For example, the regulatory authority could determine that the design of a clinical trial is inadequate to produce reliable results or convincing results.. 26. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Failure to successfully validate, develop and obtain regulatory approval for companion diagnostics could harm our drug development strategy.. One of the key elements of our clinical development strategy is to seek to identify patient subsets within a disease category that may derive particular benefit from the product candidates we are developing. In collaboration with our partners and third party developers, we plan to develop companion diagnostics to help us to identify patients within a particular subset, both during our clinical trials and in connection with the commercialization of our product candidates. Companion diagnostics are subject to regulation by the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities as medical devices and require separate regulatory approval prior to commercialization. We do not develop companion diagnostics internally and thus we are dependent on the sustained cooperation and effort of third-party collaborators in developing and obtaining approval for these companion diagnostics. We, our partners and our companion diagnostic collaborators may encounter difficulties in developing and obtaining approval for companion diagnostics, including issues relating to selectivity/specificity, analytical validation, reproducibility, clinical validation or concordance. Any delay or failure by our collaborators to develop or obtain regulatory approval of a companion diagnostic could delay or prevent approval of our product candidates. In addition, our collaborators may encounter production difficulties or difficulties sourcing key materials that could constrain the supply of the companion diagnostic, and both they and we may have difficulties gaining acceptance of the use of the companion diagnostic in the clinical community. If such companion diagnostic were to fail to gain market acceptance, it would have an adverse effect on our ability to derive revenues from sales of our products. In addition, the diagnostic companies with whom we and our partners work may decide to discontinue selling or manufacturing the companion diagnostic (or components thereof) that we anticipate using in connection with development and commercialization of our product candidates, or our relationship with such diagnostic companies may otherwise terminate according to the terms of our agreements with them. We may not be able to enter into arrangements with another diagnostic company to obtain supplies of alternative diagnostic tests for use in connection with the development and commercialization of our product candidates or do so on commercially reasonable terms, which could adversely affect and/or delay or prevent the development, market approval or commercialization of our product candidates. In addition, many current companion diagnostic products use immunohistochemistry (\"IHC\") to identify patients within a target group. The results of IHC tests are determined by pathologists and clinicians and therefore are subject to variation from reader to reader. While efforts are made to ensure rigorous training, such inherent variability can impact patient selection and cause variation from lab to lab and trial to trial.. Even if our product candidates obtain regulatory approval, we and our collaborators will be subject to ongoing government regulation.. Even if regulatory authorities approve any of our product candidates, the manufacture, marketing and sale of these drugs will be subject to strict and ongoing regulation. Compliance with such regulations may consume substantial financial and management resources and expose us and our collaborators to the potential for other adverse circumstances. For example, a regulatory authority can place restrictions on the sale or marketing of a drug in order to manage the risks identified during initial clinical trials or after the drug is on the market. A regulatory authority can condition the approval of a drug on costly post-marketing follow-up studies. Based on these studies, if a regulatory authority does not believe that the drug demonstrates a clinical benefit to patients or an acceptable safety profile, it could limit the indications for which a drug may be sold or revoke the drug's marketing approval. In addition, identification of certain side effects either during clinical trials or after a drug is on the market may result in reformulation of a drug, additional preclinical and clinical trials, labeling changes, termination of ongoing clinical trials or withdrawal of approval. Any of these events could delay or prevent us from generating revenue from the commercialization of these drugs and cause us to incur significant additional costs.. In addition, if we fail to comply with applicable requirements, we may be subject to various regulatory, civil, or criminal sanctions, including Warning or Untitled Letters, withdrawal or suspension of product approvals. FDA refusal to approval new applications, consent decrees, injunctions, product seizures or detentions, and civil and criminal penalties.. 27. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Even if we or our collaborators bring products to market, we may be unable to price our products effectively or obtain adequate reimbursement for sales of our products, which would have an adverse effect on our revenues.. The requirements governing product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary widely from country to country. Some countries require approval of the sale price of a drug before it can be marketed. In many countries, the pricing review period begins after product-licensing approval is granted. As a result, we may obtain regulatory approval for a drug candidate in a particular country, but then be subject to price regulations that reduce our profits from the sale of the product. In some foreign markets pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to continuing government control after initial marketing approval. Varying price regulation between countries can lead to inconsistent prices and some re-selling by third parties of products from markets where products are sold at lower prices to markets where those products are sold at higher prices. Any practice of exploiting price differences between countries could undermine our sales in markets with higher prices and reduce the sales of our future products, if any.. Additionally, third party payors, such as government and private insurance plans, frequently require companies to provide rebates and predetermined discounts from list prices and are increasingly challenging the prices charged for pharmaceuticals and other medical products. Our products may not be considered cost-effective, and reimbursement to the patient may not be available or be sufficient to allow the sale of our products on a competitive basis. We, or our collaborators, may not be able to negotiate favorable reimbursement rates for our products. If we, or our collaborators, fail to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement for our products by third-party payors, sales of the drugs would be adversely affected or there may be no commercially viable market for the products.. We face potential liability related to the privacy of health information we obtain from research institutions.. Most health care providers, including research institutions from which we or our collaborators obtain patient information, are subject to privacy regulations promulgated under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA. Although we are not directly regulated by HIPAA, we could face substantial criminal penalties if we knowingly receive individually identifiable health information from a health care provider or research institution that has not satisfied HIPPA's disclosure standards. In addition, certain state privacy laws may apply directly to our operations and/or those of our collaborators and may impose restrictions on our use and dissemination of individuals' health information. Moreover, patients about whom we or our collaborators obtain information, as well as the providers who share this information with us, may have contractual rights that limit our ability to use and disclose the information. Claims that we have violated individuals' privacy rights or breached our contractual obligations, even if we are not found liable, could be expensive and time-consuming to defend and could result in adverse publicity that could harm our business.. RISKS RELATED TO COLLABORATIONS. Part of our business strategy involves collaborative out-licensing of our pruduct candidates while retaining commercialization or co-promotional rights in parts of the world. We may not be able to find collaborators or successfully form suitable collaborations to further our drug development and commercialization efforts.. We have sought and may seek collaborators for our drug development and commercialization efforts. We may enter into these collaborations to obtain external financing for drug development and to obtain access to drug development and commercialization expertise. The availability of partners depends on the willingness of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to collaborate in drug discovery activities. Only a limited number of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies would fit our requirements. The number could decline further through consolidation, or the number of collaborators with interest in our drugs could decline. If the number of our potential collaborators were to decline, the remaining collaborators may be able to negotiate terms less favorable to us.. We face significant competition in seeking drug development collaborations, both from other biotechnology companies and from the internal capabilities and drug pipelines of the pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies themselves. This competition is particularly intense in the oncology field. Our ability to interest such companies in forming collaborations with us will be influenced by, among other things:. 28. TABLE OF CONTENTS. •. the compatibility of technologies;. •. the potential partner's acceptance of our approach to drug discovery;. •. the novelty, quality and commercial potential of any drug candidate we may succeed in developing; and. •. our ability, and collaborators' perceptions of our ability, to achieve intended results in a timely fashion, with acceptable quality and cost.. Even if we are able to gain the interest of potential drug development partners, the negotiation, documentation and implementation of collaboration agreements are complex and time-consuming. Collaborations may not be available on commercially acceptable terms and, if formed, may not be commercially successful or, if successful, may not realize sufficient benefit for us. If we are unable to form collaborations, we may not gain access to the financial resources and industry expertise necessary to develop and commercialize product candidates or successfully market any product we develop on our own and, therefore, we may be unable to generate revenue from our products. In addition, our past, existing and future collaboration terms contain or will likely contain limitations on classes of chemical compounds or biological targets that we may explore outside those collaborations for our own use.. Our success depends in part on the efforts of our current and possible future collaborators, who will likely have substantial control and discretion over the continued development and commercialization of product candidates that are the subjects of our collaborations.. Our current collaborators and future collaborators will have significant discretion in determining the efforts and amount of resources that they dedicate to our collaborations. Our collaborators may determine not to proceed with clinical development or commercialization of a particular product candidate for a number of reasons that are beyond our control, even under circumstances where we might have continued such a program. In addition, our rights to receive milestone payments and royalties from our collaborators will depend on our collaborators' abilities to establish the safety and efficacy of our product candidates, obtain regulatory approvals and achieve market acceptance of products developed from our product candidates. We will also depend on our collaborators to manufacture clinical, and possibly, commercial quantities of our product candidates. Our collaborators may not be successful in manufacturing our product candidates or successfully commercializing them.. We face additional risks in connection with our existing and future collaborations, including the following:. •. our collaborators may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, products that are similar to or competitive with the products that are the subject of the collaboration with us;. •. our collaborators may underfund, not commit sufficient resources to, or conduct in an unsatisfactory matter the testing, development, manufacturing, or commercialization of our product candidates;. •. our collaborators may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or may utilize our proprietary information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or potentially invalidate our intellectual property or proprietary information or expose us to potential liability;. •. our collaborators may encounter conflicts of interest, changes in business strategy or other business issues which could adversely affect their willingness or ability to fulfill their obligations to us (for example, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies historically have re-evaluated their priorities following mergers and consolidations, which have been common in recent years in these industries);. •. disputes may arise between us and our collaborators delaying or terminating the research, development or commercialization of our product candidates, resulting in significant litigation or arbitration that could be time-consuming and expensive, or causing collaborators to act in their own self-interest and not in the interest of our stockholders;. •. we might not have the financial or human resources to meet our obligations or take advantage of our rights under the terms of our existing and future collaborations; and. 29. TABLE OF CONTENTS. •. our existing collaborators may exercise their respective rights to terminate without cause their collaborations with us, in which event, we might not be able to complete development and commercialization of our drug candidates on our own.. RISKS RELATED TO RELATIONSHIPS WITH THIRD PARTY VENDORS. We rely heavily on third parties such as contract research organizations, to conduct clinical trials and perform research and analysis services for us. If third parties upon which we rely do not perform as contractually required or expected, we may not be able to develop further, obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates.. We do not have the ability or the human resources to perform all of the testing or conduct all of the clinical trials that are necessary in connection with the development of our product candidates. As a result, we rely on CROs and clinical trial sites to ensure the proper and timely conduct of our clinical trials. While we have agreements governing their activities, we have limited influence over their actual performance. We have relied and plan to continue to rely upon CROs to monitor and manage our ongoing clinical programs, as well as the execution of nonclinical studies. We control only certain aspects of our CROs' activities. Nevertheless, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our studies is conducted in accordance with the applicable protocol, legal, regulatory and scientific standards and our reliance on the CROs does not relieve us of our regulatory responsibilities. We and our CROs are required to comply with the FDA's current Good Clinical Practices, or cGCPs, which are regulations and guidelines enforced by the FDA for all of our product candidates in clinical development. The FDA enforces these cGCPs through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, principal investigators and clinical trial sites. If we or our CROs fail to comply with applicable cGCPs, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications. Upon inspection, the FDA may determine that our Phase 3 clinical trials do not comply with cGCPs. Our CROs are not our employees, and we cannot control whether or not they devote sufficient time and resources to our ongoing clinical and nonclinical programs. These CROs may also have relationships with other commercial entities, including our competitors, for whom they may also be conducting clinical studies, or other drug development activities which could harm our competitive position. We face the risk of potential unauthorized disclosure or misappropriation of our intellectual property by CROs, which may allow our potential competitors to access our proprietary technology. If our CROs do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations, fail to meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements, or for any other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize our product candidates. As a result, our financial results and the commercial prospects product candidates that we develop would be harmed, our costs could increase, and our ability to generate revenues could be delayed or eliminated.. We have limited manufacturing experience. Currently, we rely on third parties to provide sufficient quantities of our product candidates to conduct preclinical and clinical studies. We have no control over our manufacturers', suppliers' or collaborators' compliance with manufacturing regulations, and their failure to comply could interrupt our drug supply.. To date, our product candidates have been manufactured in relatively small quantities for preclinical and clinical trials. We have no experience in manufacturing any of our product candidates on a large scale and have contracted with third party manufacturers (as have our collaborators) to provide material for clinical trials and to assist in the development and optimization of our manufacturing processes and methods. Our and our partners' ability to conduct clinical trials and commercialize our product candidates will depend on the ability of such third parties to manufacture our products on a large scale at a competitive cost and in accordance with cGMP and other regulatory requirements. Significant scale-up of manufacturing may result in unanticipated technical challenges and may require additional validation studies that the FDA must review and approve. If we or our partners are not able to obtain contract cGMP manufacturing on commercially reasonable terms, obtain or develop the necessary materials and technologies for manufacturing, or obtain intellectual property rights necessary for manufacturing, we may not be able to conduct or complete clinical trials or commercialize our product candidates. There can be no assurance that we or our partners will be able to obtain such requisite terms, materials, technologies and. 30. TABLE OF CONTENTS. intellectual property necessary to successfully manufacture our product candidates for clinical trials or commercialization. Our product candidates require precise, high-quality manufacturing. The failure to achieve and maintain these high manufacturing standards, including the incidence of manufacturing errors, could result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously hurt our business.. The facilities used by our contract manufacturers and our partners may undergo inspections by the FDA for compliance with cGMP regulations before our product candidates produced there can receive marketing approval. If these facilities do not satisfy cGMP requirements in connection with the manufacture of our product candidates, we and our partners may need to conduct additional validation studies, or find alternative manufacturing facilities, either of which would result in significant cost to us as well as a delay in obtaining approval for any affected product candidate. In addition, after approval of a product candidate for commercial use, our partners and contract manufacturers and any alternative contract manufacturer we and our partners may utilize will be subject to ongoing periodic inspection by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies for compliance with cGMP regulations, similar foreign regulations and other regulatory standards. We and our partners do not have control over our contract manufacturers' compliance with these regulations and standards. Any failure by such third-party manufacturers or suppliers to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed (including fines, injunctions and civil penalties), failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our product candidates, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of product candidates or products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution.. Materials necessary to manufacture our product candidates currently under development may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, which may delay our development and commercialization of these drugs.. Some of the materials necessary for the manufacture of our product candidates currently under development may, from time to time, be available either in limited quantities, or from a limited number of manufacturers, or both. We and/or our collaborators need to obtain these materials for our clinical trials and, potentially, for commercial distribution when and if we obtain marketing approval for these compounds. Suppliers may not sell us these materials at the time we need them or on commercially reasonable terms. If we and/or our collaborators are unable to obtain the materials needed for the conduct of our clinical trials, product testing and potential regulatory approval could be delayed, adversely impacting our ability to develop the product candidates. If it becomes necessary to change suppliers for any of these materials or if any of our suppliers experience a shutdown or disruption in the facilities used to produce these materials, due to technical, regulatory or other problems, it could significantly hinder or prevent manufacture of our drug candidates and any resulting products.. RISKS RELATED TO COMPETITION. The drug research and development industry is highly competitive, and we compete with some companies that have a broader range of capabilities and better access to resources than we do.. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are characterized by rapid and continuous technological innovation. We compete with companies worldwide that are engaged in the research and discovery, licensing, development and commercialization of drug candidates, including, in the area of small molecule anti-cancer therapeutics, biotechnology companies such as AbbVie Inc., Amgen, Inc., Ariad Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Astellas Pharma, Inc., Array BioPharma Inc., AstraZeneca PLC, Celgene Corporation, Curis, Inc., Exelixis, Inc., Eli Lilly and Company, FORMA Therapeutics, Gilead Sciences, Inc., GlaxoSmithKline plc, Incyte Corporation, Infinity Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Johnson and Johnson, Merck, Merck KGaA, Novartis AG, Pfizer, Inc., Principia Biopharma, Inc., the Roche Group, Sunesis Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Takeda Pharmaceuticals Co. Ltd., and many others.. With respect to ARQ 087, we are aware of a number of companies that are or may be pursuing a number of different approaches to FGFR inhibition, including Ariad Pharmaceuticals, Astra Zeneca, Bayer, BioClin Therapeutics, Debiopharm Group, Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH, Eisai Co., Ltd., Five Prime Therapeutics, Incyte, Johnson & Johnson, Novartis, Pfizer, Principia Biopharma, Servier. 31. TABLE OF CONTENTS. and Taiho Oncology. With respect to iCCA, our lead indication for ARQ 087, we are aware of a number of companies with products under development, including Agios Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Bayer Healthcare Pharmaceutical, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Cellact Pharma Gmbh, Concordia Healthcare, Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co., Ltd., Delcath Systems, Inc., Exelixis, Novartis, Oncotherapy Services, Inc. and Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc.. Regarding ARQ 092, we are aware of a number of companies that are or may be pursuing different approaches to AKT inhibition, including Astra Zeneca, Bayer, Eli Lilly, Merck, Novartis, Rexahn Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Roche. Moreover, numerous companies have pursued and are pursuing inhibitors of PI3K and mTOR, two kinases in the PI3K-AKT-mTOR pathway; these drugs include Idelalisib, an approved PI3K inhibitor, and Everolimus, Temsirolimus and Rapamycin, approved mTOR inhibitors.. With respect to ARQ 531, we are aware of a number of companies that are or may be pursuing different approaches to C481S-mutant BTK inhibition, including Aptose Biosciences Inc., LOXO Oncology, Roche and Sunesis Pharmaceuticals. Moreover, numerous companies are also pursuing inhibitors of wild-type BTK, including AbbVie with its drug, IMBRUVICA\231, and Astra Zeneca with its drug CALQUENCE\231. Other companies with BTK inhibitors currently in development include Astra Zeneca, BeiGene Co., Ltd., Merck KGaA, Eli Lilly, Gilead, GlaxoSmithKline, Principia Biopharma and others. Other approved drugs that may compete to treat ibrutinib refractory patients, including patients with C481S-mutant BTK, include AbbVie's Bcl-2 inhibitor, VENCLEXTA\231.. Even if we are successful in bringing products to market, we face substantial competitive challenges in effectively marketing and distributing our products. Companies and research institutions, including large pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies with significantly much greater financial resources and more experience in developing products, conducting clinical trials, obtaining FDA and foreign regulatory approvals and bringing new drugs to market are developing products within the field of oncology. Some of these entities already have competitive products on the market or product candidates in more advanced stages of development than we do. By virtue of having or introducing competitive products on the market before us, these entities may gain a competitive advantage. In addition, there may be product candidates of which we are not aware at an earlier stage of development that may compete with our product candidates. Some of our competitors have entered into collaborations with leading companies within our target markets.. We are in a rapidly evolving field of research. Consequently, our technology may be rendered non-competitive or obsolete by approaches and methodologies discovered by others, both before and after we have gone to market with our products. We also face competition from existing therapies that are currently accepted in the marketplace and from the impact of adverse events in our field that may affect regulatory approval or public perception.. We anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as new companies enter the market and advanced technologies become available. If we are unable to successfully compete in our chosen field, we will not become profitable.. We may not be able to recruit and retain the scientists and management we need to compete.. Our success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled scientific personnel and management, and our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with leading academic institutions, clinicians and scientists. We are highly dependent on our senior management and scientific staff, and the loss of the services of one or more of our other key employees could have an adverse effect on the successful completion of our clinical trials or the commercialization of our product candidates.. We compete intensely with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including our collaborators, medicinal chemistry outsourcing companies, contract research and manufacturing organizations, and academic and research institutions in the recruitment of scientists and management. The shortage of personnel with experience in drug development could lead to increased recruiting, relocation and compensation costs, which may exceed our expectations and resources. If we cannot hire additional qualified personnel, the workload may increase for both existing and new personnel. If we are unsuccessful in our recruitment efforts, we may be unable to execute our strategy.. 32. TABLE OF CONTENTS. RISKS RELATED TO INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY. Our patents and other proprietary rights may fail to protect our business. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, third parties may be able to use our technology which could adversely affect our ability to compete in the market.. To be successful and compete, we must obtain and protect patents on our products and technology and protect our trade secrets. Where appropriate, we seek patent protection for certain aspects of the technology we are developing, but patent protection may not be available for some of our product candidates or their use, synthesis or formulations. The patent position of biotechnology firms is highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions, and has recently been the subject of much litigation. No consistent policy has emerged from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or the courts regarding the breadth of claims allowed or the degree of protection afforded under many biotechnology patents. In addition, there is a substantial backlog of biotechnology patent applications at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. As a consequence of these factors, the approval or rejection of patent applications may take several years.. Also, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act was signed into law on September 16, 2011, and became fully effective in March 2013. In general, the legislation attempts to address issues surrounding the enforceability of patents and the increase in patent litigation by, among other things, moving to a first inventor-to-file system, establishing new procedures for challenging patents and establishing different methods for invalidating patents. While we cannot predict what form any new patent reform regulations ultimately may take, final governmental rule-making and case law interpreting the new statute could introduce new substantive rules, procedures and case law bases for challenging patents, and certain reforms that make it easier for competitors to challenge our patents could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects.. We do not know whether our patent applications will result in issued patents. In addition, the receipt of a patent might not provide much practical protection. If we receive a patent with a narrow scope it will be easier for competitors to design products that do not infringe our patent. We cannot be certain that we will receive any additional patents, that the claims of our patents will offer significant protection for our technology, or that our patents will not be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented.. Competitors may interfere with our patent protection in a variety of ways. Competitors may claim that they invented the claimed invention before us. Competitors may also claim that we are infringing on their patents and that, therefore, we cannot practice our technology as claimed under our patents. Competitors may also contest our patents by showing the patent examiner that the invention was not original, was not novel or was obvious. In litigation, a competitor could claim that our issued patents are not valid for a number of reasons. If a court agrees, our patents could be narrowed, invalidated or rendered unenforceable, or we may be forced to stop using the technology covered by these patents or to license the technology from third parties. As a company, we have no meaningful experience with competitors interfering with our patents or patent applications and therefore may not have the experience we would need to aggressively protect our patents should such action become necessary.. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. Many countries, including certain countries in Europe, have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses to third parties. In addition, many countries limit the enforceability of patents against government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, the patent owner may have limited remedies, which could materially diminish the value of the patent. Compulsory licensing of life-saving drugs is also becoming increasingly popular in developing countries either through direct legislation or international initiatives. Such compulsory licenses could be extended to include some of our product candidates, which could limit our potential revenue opportunities. Moreover, the legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patent and other intellectual property protection, which makes it difficult to stop infringement.. Drug candidates we develop that are approved for commercial marketing by the FDA would be subject to the provisions of the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, known as the \"Hatch-Waxman Act.\" The Hatch-Waxman Act provides companies with marketing exclusivity for varying. 33. TABLE OF CONTENTS. time periods during which generic versions of a drug may not be marketed and allows companies to apply to extend patent protection for up to five additional years. It also provides a means for approving generic versions of a drug once the marketing exclusivity period has ended and all relevant patents have expired. The period of exclusive marketing, however, may be shortened if a patent is successfully challenged and defeated, which could reduce the amount of revenue we receive for such product.. Agreements we have with our employees, consultants and collaborators may not afford adequate protection for our trade secrets, confidential information and other proprietary information.. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on copyright and trademark protection, trade secrets, and know-how. It is unclear whether our trade secrets and know-how will prove to be adequately protected. To protect our trade secrets and know-how, we require our employees, consultants and advisors to execute agreements regarding the confidentiality and ownership of such proprietary information. We cannot guarantee, however, that these agreements will provide us with adequate protection against improper use or disclosure of confidential information and there may not be adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. Our employees, consultants or advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. In addition, in some situations, these agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants or advisors had or have previous employment or consulting relationships. Like patent litigation, enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is expensive and time-consuming and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the U.S. are sometimes less willing than our federal and state courts to protect trade secrets. Furthermore, others may independently develop substantially equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. Our failure or inability to protect our proprietary information and techniques may inhibit or limit our ability to compete effectively or exclude certain competitors from the market.. Our success will depend partly on our ability to operate without infringing upon or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others.. There are many patents in our field of technology and we cannot guarantee that we do not infringe on those patents or that we will not infringe on patents granted in the future. If a patent holder believes a product of ours infringes on its patent, the patent holder may sue us even if we have received patent protection for our technology.. If we do not prevail in litigation or if other parties have filed, or in the future should file, patent applications covering products and technologies that we have developed or intend to develop, we may have to obtain licenses from third parties, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and may require us to pay substantial royalties or grant a cross-license to some of our patents to another patent holder. Additionally, we may have to change the formulation of a product candidate so that we do not infringe third-party patents. Such reformulation may be impossible to achieve or which may require substantial time and expense. If we are unable to cost-effectively redesign our products so they do not infringe a patent, we may be unable to sell some of our products. Any of these occurrences will result in lost revenues and profits for us.. The drug research and development industry has a history of patent and other intellectual property litigation, and we may be involved in costly intellectual property lawsuits.. The drug research and development industry has a history of patent and other intellectual property litigation, and we believe these lawsuits are likely to continue. Legal proceedings relating to intellectual property would be expensive, take significant time and divert management's attention from other business concerns. We face potential patent infringement suits by companies that control patents for drugs or potential drugs similar to our product candidates or other suits alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights. There could be issued patents of which we are not aware that our products and their use, whether as single agents or in combination with other products, infringe or patents that we believe we do not infringe that we are ultimately found to infringe. The publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature frequently occurs substantially later than the date on which the underlying discoveries were made and patent applications were filed. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there. 34. TABLE OF CONTENTS. may be currently pending applications of which we are unaware that may later result in issued patents that we infringe with our drug candidates or resulting products, and their use as single agents or in combination with other products. In addition, technology created under our research and development collaborations may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, in which case we may not receive milestone or royalty revenue from those collaborations.. If we do not prevail in an infringement lawsuit brought against us, we might have to pay substantial damages and we could be required to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license to use the patented technology or redesign our products so as not to infringe the patent. We may not be able to enter into licensing arrangements at a reasonable cost or effectively redesign our products. Any inability to secure licenses or alternative technology could delay the introduction of our products or prevent us from manufacturing or selling products.. RISKS RELATED TO EMPLOYEES, FACILITIES AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY. Our operations could be interrupted by damage to our laboratory facilities.. The efficiency of certain of our operations depends in part upon the continued use of our specialized laboratories and equipment in Bedford, Massachusetts. Catastrophic events, including fires or explosions, could damage our laboratories, equipment, scientific data, work in progress or inventories of chemical compounds and biological materials and may materially interrupt our business. We employ safety precautions in our laboratory activities in order to reduce the likelihood of the occurrence of these catastrophic events; however, we cannot eliminate the chance that such an event will occur. Rebuilding our facilities could be time consuming and result in substantial delays in our development of products and in fulfilling our agreements with our collaborators.. Security breaches may disrupt our operations and adversely affect our operating results.. Our network security and data recovery measures and those of third parties with which we contract, may not be adequate to protect against computer viruses, cyber-attacks, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. The misappropriation, theft, sabotage or any other type of security breach with respect to any of our proprietary and confidential information that is electronically stored, including research or clinical data, could cause interruptions in our operations, and could result in a material disruption of our clinical activities and business operations, in addition to possibly requiring substantial expenditures of resources to remedy. This disruption could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, any break-in or trespass of our facilities that results in the misappropriation, theft, sabotage or any other type of security breach with respect to our proprietary and confidential information, including research or clinical data, or that results in damage to our research and development equipment and assets could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition.. RISKS RELATED TO PRODUCT LIABILITY. If our use of chemical and biological materials and hazardous materials violates applicable laws or causes personal injury, we may be liable for damages.. Our drug discovery activities, including the analysis and synthesis of chemical compounds, involve the controlled use of chemicals, including flammable, combustible, toxic and radioactive materials that are potentially hazardous if misused. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern our use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials. These laws and regulations include the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Occupational Safety and Health Act, local fire and building codes, regulations promulgated by the Department of Transportation, the Drug Enforcement Agency and the Department of Energy, the Department of Health and Human Services, and the laws of Massachusetts where we conduct our operations. We may incur significant costs to comply with these laws and regulations in the future and current or future environmental laws and regulations may impair our research, development and production efforts. Notwithstanding our extensive safety procedures for handling and disposing of materials, the risk of. 35. TABLE OF CONTENTS. accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of an accident, our business could be disrupted and we could be liable for damages. Our liability may exceed our insurance coverage and our total assets and have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. We may be exposed to potential liability related to the development, testing or manufacturing of compounds we develop and our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover losses.. We are developing, clinically testing and manufacturing potential therapeutic products for use in humans. In connection with these activities, we could be liable if persons are injured or die while using these drugs. We may have to pay substantial damages and/or incur legal costs to defend claims resulting from injury or death, and we may not receive expected royalty or milestone payments if commercialization of a drug is limited or ended as a result of such claims. We have product liability and clinical trial insurance that contains customary exclusions and provides coverage per occurrence at levels, in the aggregate, which we believe are customary and commercially reasonable in our industry given our current stage of drug development. Our product liability insurance does not cover every type of product liability claim that we may face or loss we may incur and may not adequately compensate us for the entire amount of covered claims or losses or for the harm to our business reputation. Also, we may be unable to maintain our current insurance policies or obtain and maintain necessary additional coverage at acceptable costs, or at all.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK. Our stock price may be extremely volatile.. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile. As a result of this volatility, you may not be able to sell your common stock at or above your purchase price, if at all. We believe the trading price of our common stock will remain highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially due to factors such as:. •. adverse results or delays in clinical trials;. •. announcement of FDA approval or non-approval, or delays in the FDA review process, of our or our collaborators' product candidates or those of our competitors or actions taken by regulatory agencies with respect to our, our collaborators' or our competitors' clinical trials;. •. announcement of new products by us or our competitors;. •. quarterly variations in our or our competitors' results of operations, including as a result of recognition of upfront licensing or other fees, the timing and amount of expenses incurred for clinical development, regulatory approval and commercialization of our product candidates;. •. litigation, including intellectual property infringement lawsuits, involving us;. •. financing transactions;. •. developments in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries;. •. the general performance of the equity markets and in particular the biopharmaceutical sector of the equity markets;. •. departures of key personnel or board members;. •. developments concerning current or future collaborations;. •. FDA or international regulatory actions affecting our industry generally; and. •. third-party reimbursement policies.. This volatility and general market declines in our industry over the past several years have affected the market prices of securities issued by many companies, often for reasons unrelated to their operating performance, and may adversely affect the price of our common stock. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities. A securities class action suit against us could result in potential liabilities, substantial costs and the diversion of management's attention and resources, regardless of the outcome of the action.. 36. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Some of our existing stockholders can exert control over us, and their interests could conflict with the best interests of our other stockholders.. Due to their combined stock holdings, our principal stockholders (stockholders holding more than 5% of our common stock), acting together, may be able to exert significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control of our company, even when a change may be in the best interests of our stockholders. Furthermore, the interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with our interests as a company or the interests of other stockholders. Accordingly, these stockholders could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements that would not be widely viewed as beneficial.. If our officers, directors or principal stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares issued upon the exercise of options) in the public market, the market price of our common stock could fall. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent or deter attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management.. Provisions in our corporate charter and bylaws and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, a change in control, or attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove members of our current Board of Directors. Because our Board of Directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team. These provisions include:. •. a Board of Directors having three classes of directors with a three-year term of office that expires as to one class each year, commonly referred to as a \"staggered board\";. •. a prohibition on actions by our stockholders by written consent;. •. the inability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders;. •. the ability of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a \"poison pill\" that would work to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our Board of Directors;. •. limitations on the removal of directors; and. •. advance notice requirements for director nominations and stockholder proposals.. Moreover, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner. As a result, it is difficult for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our Board of Directors and, therefore, mergers with and acquisitions of us that our stockholders may consider in their best interests may not occur.. Because we do not intend to pay dividends, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value.. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance the expansion of our business and do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend entirely upon any future appreciation. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders have purchased their shares.. 37. TABLE OF CONTENTS"
