[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risks discussed below and all of the other information contained in this report in evaluating us and an investment in our securities. If any of the following risks and uncertainties should occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In that case, the trading price of our Common Stock could decline. Additionally, we note that we have accrued net losses annually since inception given the stage of our drug development. We urge you to consider our likelihood of success and prospects in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by entities at similar stages of development.. Risks Related to Our Company. Risks Related to Our Discovery, Development, and Commercialization of Medicines. There are substantial risks inherent in attempting to commercialize our new drugs, and, as a result, we may not be able to successfully develop products for commercial use.. Our research and development efforts involve therapeutics based on RNA interference and our delivery systems, which are largely unproven technologies. Our scientists and engineers are working on developing technology in the early stages. However, such technology's commercial feasibility and acceptance are unknown. Scientific research and development requires significant amounts of capital and takes a long time to reach commercial viability, if it can be achieved at all. To date, our research and development projects have not produced commercially viable drugs, and may never do so. During the research and development process, we may experience technological barriers that we may be unable to overcome. Further, certain underlying premises in our development programs are not proven.  For instance, the theory that knockdown of S-antigen in chronic hepatitis B patients will result in a functional cure is unproven.  Similarly, the reduction of the production of mutant alpha-1 antitrypsin in the liver may not lead to a reduction of globules in the liver, and even if it leads to a reduction in such globules, this may not lead to other beneficial hepatic changes.  It is also unknown at this time what changes in the liver may be required to gain regulatory approval and/or favorable reimbursement for a drug that reduces the production of mutant alpha-1 antitrypsin in the liver.  Because of these and similar uncertainties, it is possible that no commercial products will be successfully developed. If we are unable to successfully develop commercial products, we will be unable to generate revenue or build a sustainable or profitable business.. There can be no assurance that our product candidates will obtain regulatory approval.. The sale of human therapeutic products in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions is subject to extensive and time consuming regulatory approval which requires, among other things:. •  controlled research and human clinical testing;. •  establishment of the safety and efficacy of the product;. •  government review and approval of a submission containing manufacturing, pre-clinical and clinical data; and. •  adherence to cGMP regulations during production and storage.. The product candidates we currently have under development will require significant development, pre-clinical and clinical testing and investment of significant funds to gain regulatory approval before they can be commercialized. The results of our research and human clinical testing of our products may not meet regulatory requriements.  Some of our product candidates, if approved, will require the completion of post-market studies. There can be no assurance that any of our products will be further developed and approved. The process of completing clinical testing and obtaining required approvals will take a number of years and require the use of substantial resources. Further, there can be no assurance that product candidates employing a new technology will be shown to be safe and effective in clinical trials or receive applicable regulatory approvals. If we fail to obtain regulatory approvals for any or all of our products, we will not be able to market such product and our operations may be adversely affected.. If testing of a particular product candidate does not yield successful results, then we will be unable to commercialize that product candidate.. We must demonstrate our product candidates' safety and efficacy in humans through extensive clinical testing. Our research and development programs are at an early stage of development. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the testing process that could delay or prevent commercialization of any products, including the following:. •  the results of pre-clinical studies may be inconclusive, or they may not be indicative of results that will be obtained in human clinical trials;. 23. •  safety and efficacy results attained in early human clinical trials may not be indicative of results that are obtained in later clinical  trials;. •  after reviewing test results, we may abandon projects that we might previously have believed to be promising;. •  we or our regulators may suspend or terminate clinical trials because the participating subjects or patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; and. •  our product candidates may not have the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects or other characteristics that preclude regulatory approval or limit their commercial use if approved.. It may take us longer than we project to complete clinical trials, and we may not be able to complete them at all.. Although for planning purposes, we project the commencement, continuation and completion of our clinical trials, a number of factors, including scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions, and difficulties in identifying or enrolling patients who meet trial eligibility criteria, may cause significant delays. We may not commence or complete clinical trials involving any of our product candidates as projected or may not conduct them successfully.. Even if our clinical studies are successful and we achieve regulatory approval, the approved product label may be more limited than we or analysts anticipate, which could limit the commercial opportunity for our product candidates.. At the time drugs are approved for commercialization, they are given a \"product label\" from the FDA or other regulatory body. In most countries this label sets forth the approved indication for marketing, and identifies potential safety concerns for prescribing physicians and patients.  While we intend to seek as broad a product label as possible for our product candidates, we may receive a narrower label than is expected by either us or third parties, such as stockholders and securities analysts. For example, any approved products may only be indicated to treat refractory patients (i.e., those who have failed some other first-line therapy). Similarly, it is possible that only a specific sub-set of patients safely responds to one or more of our drug candidates. As a result, our product candidates, even if successful in clinical trials, could be approved only for a subset of patients.  Additionally, safety considerations may result in contraindications that could further limit the scope of an approved product label.  Any of these or other safety and efficacy considerations could limit the commercial opportunity for our product candidates.. Even if our product candidates are approved for commercialization, future regulatory reviews or inspections may result in the suspension or withdrawal of one or more of our products, closure of a facility or enforcement of substantial fines.. If regulatory approval to sell any of our product candidates is received, regulatory agencies will subject any marketed product(s), as well as the manufacturing facilities, to continual review and periodic inspection. If previously unknown problems with a product or manufacturing and laboratory facility are discovered, or we fail to comply with applicable regulatory approval requirements, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product or on us. The agency may require the withdrawal of the product from the market, closure of the facility or enforcement of substantial fines.. We face potential product liability exposure, and if successful claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability for a product candidate and may have to limit its commercialization.. The use of our product candidates in clinical trials and the sale of any products for which we obtain marketing approval expose us to the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims might be brought against us by clinical trial participants, consumers, health-care providers, pharmaceutical companies, or others selling our products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against these claims, we may incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcomes of such claims, product liability claims may result in:. •  decreased demand for our product candidates;. •  impairment of our business reputation;. •  withdrawal of clinical trial participants;. •  costs of litigation;. •  substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; and. •  loss of revenues.. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to reimburse us for all expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive and, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses.. 24. The successful commercialization of our product candidates, if approved, will depend in part on the extent to which government authorities and health insurers establish adequate reimbursement levels and pricing policies.. Sales of any approved drug candidate will depend in part on the availability of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers such as government insurance programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, private health insurers, health maintenance organizations and other health care related organizations, who are increasingly challenging the price of medical products and services. Accordingly, coverage and reimbursement may be uncertain. Adoption of any drug by the medical community may be limited if third-party payers will not offer coverage. Additionally, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved drugs.  Cost control initiatives may decrease coverage and payment levels for any drug and, in turn, the price that we will be able to charge and/or the volume of our sales. We are unable to predict all changes to the coverage or reimbursement methodologies that will be applied by private or government payers. Any denial of private or government payer coverage or inadequate reimbursement could harm our business and reduce our revenue. If we partner with third parties with respect to any of our product candidates, we may be reliant on that partner to obtain reimbursement from government and private payors for the drug, if approved, and any failure of that partner to establish adequate reimbursement could have a negative impact on our revenues and profitability.. In addition, both the federal and state governments in the United States and foreign governments continue to propose and pass new legislation, regulations, and policies affecting coverage and reimbursement rates, which are designed to contain or reduce the cost of health care.   Further federal and state proposals and healthcare reforms are likely, which could limit the prices that can be charged for the product candidates that we develop and may further limit our commercial opportunity. There may be future changes that result in reductions in potential coverage and reimbursement levels for our product candidates, if approved and commercialized, and we cannot predict the scope of any future changes or the impact that those changes would have on our operations.. If future reimbursement for approved product candidates, if any, is substantially less than we project, or rebate obligations associated with them are substantially greater than we expect, our future net revenue and profitability could be materially diminished.. We may not enjoy the market exclusivity benefits of our orphan drug designation.. Although we may obtain orphan designations in the treatment of certain diseases our products are intended to treat, the designation may not be applicable to any particular product we might get approved and that product may not be the first product to receive approval for that indication.  Under the Orphan Drug Act, the first product with an orphan designation receives market exclusivity, which prohibits FDA from approving the \"same\" drug for the same indication.  The FDA has stated that drugs can be the \"same\" even when they are not identical, but has not provided guidance with respect to how it will determine \"sameness\" for RNAi drugs.  It is possible that another RNAi drug could be approved for the treatment of a disease one of our orphan products is intended to treat before our product is approved, which means that we may not obtain orphan drug exclusivity and could also potentially be blocked from approval until the first product's orphan drug exclusivity period expires or we demonstrate, if we can, that our product is superior. Further, even if we obtain orphan drug exclusivity for a product, that exclusivity may not effectively protect the product from competition because different drugs can be approved for the same condition. Even after an orphan drug is approved and granted orphan drug exclusivity, the FDA can subsequently approve the same drug for the same condition if the FDA concludes that the later drug is safer, more effective or makes a major contribution to patient care.. Our success depends on the attraction and retention of senior management and scientists with relevant expertise.. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued services of our key employees, including our senior scientific, technical and managerial personnel. We do not maintain key person life insurance for any of our executives and we do not maintain employment agreements with many senior employees. Competition for qualified employees in the pharmaceutical industry is high, and our ability to execute our strategy will depend in part on our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified scientists and management. If we are unable to find, hire and retain qualified individuals, we will have difficulty implementing our business plan in a timely manner, or at all.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. Our ability to protect our patents and other proprietary rights is uncertain, exposing us to the possible loss of competitive advantage.. We have licensed rights to pending patents and have filed and expect to continue to file patent applications. Researchers sponsored by us may also file patent applications that we may need to license. Such patent applications may not be available for licensing or may not be economically feasible to license.  Certain of our patents may not be granted or may not contain claims of the necessary breadth because, for example, prior patents exist.  If a particular patent is not granted, the value of the invention described in the patent would be diminished. Further, even if these patents are granted, they may be difficult to enforce. Even if ultimately successful, efforts to enforce our patent rights could be expensive, distracting for management, cause our patents to be invalidated or held unenforceable, and thus frustrate commercialization of products. Even if patents are issued and are enforceable, others may develop similar, superior or parallel technologies to any technology developed by us and not infringe on our patents.  Our technology. 25. may prove to infringe upon patents or rights owned by others. Patent prosecution and maintenance is expensive, and we may be forced to curtail prosecution or maintenance if our cash resources are limited. Thus, the patents held by or licensed to us may not afford us any meaningful competitive advantage. If we are unable to derive value from our licensed or owned intellectual property, the value of your investment may decline.. We are party to technology license agreements with third parties that require us to satisfy obligations to keep them effective and, if these agreements are terminated, our technology and our business would be seriously and adversely affected.. We are party to license agreements to incorporate third party proprietary technologies into our drug products under development. These license agreements require us to pay royalties and satisfy other conditions, including conditions in some cases related to the commercialization of the licensed technology. We may not be able to successfully incorporate these technologies into marketable products or, if we do, sales may not be sufficient to recover the amounts that we are obligated to pay to the licensors. If we fail to satisfy our obligations under these agreements, the terms of the licenses may be materially modified, such as by rendering currently exclusive licenses non-exclusive, or it may give our licensors the right to terminate their respective agreement with us, which would limit our ability to implement our current business plan and harm our business and financial condition.. We may be subject to patent infringement claims, which could result in substantial costs and liability and prevent us from commercializing our potential products.. Because the intellectual property landscape in the fields in which we participate is rapidly evolving and interdisciplinary, it is difficult to conclusively assess our freedom to operate without infringing on third party rights. However, we are currently aware of certain patent rights held by third parties that, if found to be valid and enforceable, could be alleged to render one or more of our drug candidates infringing. If a claim should be brought and is successful, we may be required to pay substantial damages, be forced to abandon any affected drug candidates and/or seek a license from the patent holder. In addition, any patent infringement claims brought against us, whether or not successful, may cause us to incur significant expenses and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from other business concerns. These could negatively affect our results of operations and prospects. We cannot be certain that patents owned or licensed by us will not be challenged, potentially successfully, by others.. In addition, if our product candidates infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, these third parties may assert infringement claims against our customers, licensees, and other parties with whom we have business relationships and we may be required to indemnify those parties for any damages they suffer as a result of these claims. The claims may require us to initiate or defend protracted and costly litigation on behalf of customers, licensees, and other parties regardless of the merits of these claims. If any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages on behalf of those parties or may be required to obtain licenses for the products they use. If we cannot obtain all necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, we may be unable to continue selling such products.. We license patent rights from third-party owners and we rely on such owners to obtain, maintain and enforce the patents underlying such licenses.. We are a party to a number of licenses that give us rights to third-party intellectual property that is necessary or useful for our business. In particular, we have obtained licenses from, among others, Novartis and Alnylam. We also expect to enter into additional licenses to third-party intellectual property in the future.. Our success will depend in part on the ability of our licensors to obtain, maintain and enforce patent protection for our licensed intellectual property, in particular, those patents to which we have secured exclusive rights. Our licensors may not successfully prosecute the patent applications to which we are licensed. Even if patents are issued in respect of these patent applications, our licensors may fail to maintain these patents, may determine not to pursue litigation against other companies that are infringing these patents, or may pursue such litigation less aggressively than we would. Without protection for the intellectual property we license, other companies might be able to offer substantially identical products for sale, which could adversely affect our competitive business position and harm our business prospects.. Our technology licensed from various third parties may be subject to retained rights.. Our licensors often retain certain rights under their agreements with us, including the right to use the underlying technology for noncommercial academic and research use, to publish general scientific findings from research related to the technology, and to make customary scientific and scholarly disclosures of information relating to the technology. It is difficult to monitor whether our licensors limit their use of the technology to these uses, and we could incur substantial expenses to enforce our rights to our licensed technology in the event of misuse.. 26. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information.. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers, and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such party. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position.. We may not be able to effectively secure first-tier technologies when competing against other companies or investors.. Our future success may require that we acquire patent rights and know-how to new or complimentary technologies. However, we compete with a substantial number of other companies that may also compete for technologies we desire. In addition, many venture capital firms and other institutional investors, as well as other pharmaceutical and biotech companies, invest in companies seeking to commercialize various types of emerging technologies. Many of these companies have greater financial, scientific and commercial resources than us. Therefore, we may not be able to secure the technologies we desire. Furthermore, should any commercial undertaking by us prove to be successful, there can be no assurance competitors with greater financial resources will not offer competitive products and/or technologies.. Risks Related to Our Business Model. Our business model assumes we will generate revenue by, among other activities, marketing or out-licensing the products we develop.  Our drug candidates are in the early stages of development and because we have a short development history with both RNA interference and our delivery technologies, there is a limited amount of information about us upon which you can evaluate our business and prospects.. We have no approved drugs and thus have not begun to market or generate revenues from the commercialization of any products. We have only a limited history upon which one can evaluate our RNAi therapeutic business as our drug candidates are still at an early stage of development. Thus, we have limited experience and have not yet demonstrated an ability to successfully overcome many of the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in new and rapidly evolving fields, particularly in the biopharmaceutical area. For example, to execute our business plan, we will need to successfully:. <U+25CF>  Execute product development activities using unproven technologies;. <U+25CF>  Build, maintain, and protect a strong intellectual property portfolio;. <U+25CF>  Demonstrate safety and efficacy of our drug candidates in multiple human clinical studies;. <U+25CF>  Receive FDA approval and approval from similar foreign regulatory bodies;   <U+25CF>  Gain market acceptance for the development and commercialization of any drugs we develop;. <U+25CF>  Ensure our products are reimbursed by commercial and/or government payors at a rate that permits commercial viability;  <U+25CF>  Develop and maintain successful strategic relationships with suppliers, distributors, and commercial licensing partners;. <U+25CF>  Manage our spending and cash requirements as our expenses will increase in the near term if we add programs and additional preclinical and clinical trials; and  <U+25CF>  Effectively market any products for which we obtain marketing approval.. If we are unsuccessful in accomplishing these objectives, we may not be able to develop products, raise capital, expand our business or continue our operations.. We will need to establish additional relationships with strategic and development partners to fully develop our drug candidates and market any approved products.. During fiscal year 2016, we entered into two collaboration and license agreements with Amgen.  Our business strategy includes obtaining additional collaborations with other pharmaceutical and biotech companies to support the development of our therapeutic siRNA and other drug candidates. We do not possess all of the financial and development resources necessary to develop and commercialize products that may result from our technologies. Unless we expand our product development capacity and enhance our internal marketing capability, we may need to make appropriate arrangements with strategic partners to develop and commercialize any drug candidates that may be approved. We may not be able to attract such partners, and even if we are able to enter into such partnerships, the terms may be less favorable than anticipated. Further, entering into partnership agreements may limit our. 27. commercialization options and/or require us to share revenues and profits with our partners. If we do not find appropriate partners, or if our existing arrangements or future agreements are not successful, our ability to develop and commercialize products could be adversely affected. Even if we are able to find collaborative partners, the overall success of the development and commercialization of product candidates in those programs will depend largely on the efforts of other parties and will be beyond our control. In addition, in the event we pursue our commercialization strategy through collaboration or licenses to third parties, there are a variety of technical, business and legal risks, including:. <U+25CF>  We may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our collaborators may be willing or able to devote to the development or commercialization of our drug candidates or to their marketing and distribution; and. <U+25CF>  Disputes may arise between us and our collaborators that result in the delay or termination of the research, development or commercialization of our drug candidates or that result in costly litigation or arbitration that diverts our management's resources.. The occurrence of any of the above events or other related events could impair our ability to generate revenues and harm our business and financial condition.. We may lose a considerable amount of control over our intellectual property and may not receive anticipated revenues in strategic transactions, particularly where the consideration is contingent on the achievement of development or sales milestones.. Our business model has been to develop new technologies and to utilize the intellectual property created through the research and development process to develop commercially successful products. If the acquirers of our technologies fail to achieve performance milestones, we may not receive a significant portion of the total value of any sale, license or other strategic transaction.. We will need to achieve commercial acceptance of our drug candidates to generate revenues and achieve profitability.. Even if our research and development efforts yield technologically feasible applications, we may not successfully develop commercial products.  Drug development takes years of study in human clinical trials prior to regulatory approval, and, even if we are successful, it may not be on a timely basis. During our drug development period, superior competitive technologies may be introduced which could diminish or extinguish the potential commercial uses for our drug candidates. Additionally, the degree to which the medical community and consumers will adopt any product we develop is uncertain. The rate and degree of market acceptance of our products will depend on a number of factors, including the establishment and demonstration in the medical community of the clinical efficacy and safety of our products, their potential advantage over alternative treatments, and the costs to patients and third-party payors, including insurance companies and Medicare. Recent efforts in the United States and abroad to reduce overall healthcare spending has put significant pressure on the price of prescription drugs and certain companies have been publicly criticized for the relatively high cost of their therapies.  These pressures may force us to sell any approved drugs at a lower price than we or analysts may anticipate, or may result in lower levels of reimbursement and coverage from third parties.. We cannot predict whether significant commercial market acceptance for our products, if approved, will ever develop, and we cannot reliably estimate the projected size of any such potential market. Our revenue growth and achievement of profitability will depend substantially on our ability to introduce products that will be accepted by the medical community. If we are unable to cost-effectively achieve acceptance of our technology among the medical establishment and patients, or if the associated products do not achieve wide market acceptance, our business will be materially and adversely affected.. We rely on outside sources for various components and processes for our products.. We rely on third parties for various components and processes for our product candidates. We may not be able to achieve multiple sourcing because there may be no acceptable second source, other companies may choose not to work with us, or the component or process sought may be so new that a second source does not exist, or does not exist on acceptable terms. There may be a disruption or delay in the performance of our third-party contractors, suppliers or collaborators which is beyond our control. If such third parties are unable to satisfy their commitments to us, the development of our products would be adversely affected. Therefore, it is possible that our development plans will have to be slowed down or stopped completely at times due to our inability to obtain required raw materials, components, and outsourced processes at an acceptable cost, if at all, or to get a timely response from vendors.. We have limited manufacturing capability and must rely on third-party manufacturers to manufacture our clinical supplies and commercial products, if and when approved, and if they fail to meet their obligations, the development and commercialization of our products could be adversely affected.. We have limited manufacturing capabilities and experience. Our drug candidates are composed of multiple components and require specialized formulations for which scale-up and manufacturing could be difficult. We have limited experience in such scale-up and manufacturing requiring us to depend on a limited number of third parties, who may not be able to deliver in a timely manner, or at all. In order to develop products, apply for regulatory approvals, and commercialize our products, we will need to develop, contract. 28. for, or otherwise arrange for the necessary manufacturing capabilities. Our internal manufacturing capabilities are limited to small-scale production of material for use in in vitro and in vivo experiments that is not required to be produced under cGMP standards beyond those applicable to active pharmaceutical ingredients used in phase 1 studies.  There are a limited number of manufacturers that supply synthetic siRNAs. There are risks inherent in pharmaceutical manufacturing that could affect the ability of our contract manufacturers to meet our delivery time requirements or provide adequate amounts of material to meet our needs. Included in these risks are synthesis and purification failures and contamination during the manufacturing process, which could result in unusable product and cause delays in our development process, as well as additional expense to us.. Additionally, our product candidates have not yet been manufactured for commercial use. If any of our product candidates become approved for commercial sale, we will need to establish either internal or third-party manufacturing capacity. Manufacturing partner requirements may require us to fund capital improvements, perhaps on behalf of third parties, to support the scale-up of manufacturing and related activities. We may not be able to establish scaled manufacturing capacity for an approved product in a timely or economic manner, if at all. If we or our third party manufacturers are unable to provide commercial quantities of such an approved product, we will have to successfully transfer manufacturing technology to a different manufacturer. Engaging a new manufacturer for such an approved product could require us to conduct comparative studies or utilize other means to determine bioequivalence of the new and prior manufacturers' products, which could delay or prevent our ability to commercialize such an approved product. If we or any of these manufacturers is unable or unwilling to increase its manufacturing capacity or if we are unable to establish alternative arrangements on a timely basis or on acceptable terms, the development and commercialization of such an approved product may be delayed or there may be a shortage in supply. Any inability to manufacture our product candidates or future approved drugs in sufficient quantities when needed would seriously harm our business.. Manufacturers of our approved products, if any, must comply with cGMP requirements enforced by the FDA and foreign health authorities through facilities inspection programs. These requirements include quality control, quality assurance, and the maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturers of our approved products, if any, may be unable to comply with these cGMP requirements and with other FDA, state, and foreign regulatory requirements. A failure to comply with these requirements may result in fines and civil penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or recall, or withdrawal of product approval. If the safety of any quantities supplied is compromised due to a manufacturer's failure to adhere to applicable laws or for other reasons, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our products, which would seriously harm our business.. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and if they fail to fulfill their obligations, the development of our products may be adversely affected.. We rely on independent clinical investigators, contract research organizations and other third party service providers to assist us in managing, monitoring and otherwise carrying out our clinical trials. We contract with certain third-parties to provide certain services, including site selection, enrollment, monitoring and data management services. Although we depend heavily on these parties, we do not control them and therefore we cannot be assured that these third-parties will adequately perform all of their contractual obligations to us. If our third party service providers cannot adequately and timely fulfill their obligations to us, or if the quality and accuracy of our clinical trial data is compromised due to failure by such third parties to adhere to our protocols or regulatory requirements or if such third-parties otherwise fail to meet deadlines, our development plans may be delayed or terminated. Further, if clinical study results are compromised, then we may need to repeat the affected studies, which could result in significant additional costs and delays to us.. We face competition from various entities including large pharmaceutical companies, small biotech companies, private companies, and research institutions.. Many of our competitors have greater financial resources and may have more experience in research and development, manufacturing, managing clinical trials and/or regulatory compliance than we do.  Our competitors may compete with us for lead clinical trial investigators, clinical trial site locations and patient enrollment.  These competitors may also compete with us on recruiting scientific and management personnel.  Because our products are in the early stages of development, along with many of the competing products, and given unpredictability inherent in drug development, it is difficult to predict which third parties may provide the most competition, and on what specific basis that competition may be based.. We may have difficulty expanding our operations successfully as we evolve from a company primarily involved in discovery and pre-clinical testing into one that develops and commercializes drugs.. We expect that as we increase the number of product candidates we are developing we will also need to expand our operations. This expected growth may place a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. As product candidates we develop enter and advance through clinical trials, we will need to expand our development, regulatory, manufacturing, marketing, and sales capabilities or contract with other organizations to provide these capabilities for us. As our operations expand due to our development. 29. progress, we expect that we will need to manage additional relationships with various collaborators, suppliers, and other organizations. Our ability to manage our operations and future growth will require us to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. We may not be able to implement improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls.. Our business and operations could suffer in the event of information technology system failures.. Our internal computer systems and those of our contractors and consultants are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war, and telecommunication and electrical failures. Such events could cause interruption of our operations and loss of intellectual property. For example, the loss of pre-clinical trial data or data from completed or ongoing clinical trials for our product candidates could result in delays in our regulatory filings and development efforts and significantly increase our costs. To the extent that any disruption or security breach were to result in a loss of or damage to our data, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential, proprietary or private information, we could incur liability, we could lose valuable trade secret rights, and the development of our product candidates could be delayed.. If a natural or man-made disaster strikes our research and development facility or otherwise affects our business, it could delay our progress developing our product candidates.. We conduct research and development in a facility in Madison, Wisconsin.  The facilities and the equipment we use are costly to replace and require substantial lead time to repair or replace. Our facilities may be harmed by natural or man-made disasters, including, without limitation, earthquakes, floods, fires and acts of terrorism; and if our facilities are affected by a disaster, our development efforts would be delayed.  Significant delays in our development efforts could materially impact our ability to obtain regulatory approval and to commercialize our products.  Any insurance we maintain against damage to our property and the disruption of our business due to disaster may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all.  In addition, our development activities could be harmed or delayed by a shutdown of the U.S. government, including the FDA.. Litigation claims may result in financial losses or harm our reputation and may divert management resources.. When the market price of a stock is volatile, holders of that stock have often initiated securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. Certain of our stockholders have recently brought such lawsuits against us, pursuant to which we could incur substantial costs.  We cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of this or any other litigation, arbitration or third-party inquiry. We may not be successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights in current or future lawsuits, investigations, or claims that have been or may be brought against us and, as a result, our business could be materially harmed. These lawsuits, arbitrations, investigations or claims may result in large judgments or settlements against us, any of which could have a negative effect on our financial performance and business. Additionally, lawsuits, arbitrations and investigations can be expensive to defend, whether or not the lawsuit, arbitration or investigation has merit, and the defense of these actions may divert the attention of our management and other resources that would otherwise be engaged in running our business.. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition. We have a history of net losses, and we expect to continue to incur net losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability.. We have incurred net losses since our inception, including net losses of $34.4 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017. We expect that our operating losses will continue for the foreseeable future as we continue our drug development and discovery efforts. To achieve profitability, we must, either directly or through licensing and/or partnering relationships, meet certain milestones, successfully develop and obtain regulatory approval for one or more drug candidates and effectively manufacture, market and sell any drugs we successfully develop. Even if we successfully commercialize drug candidates that receive regulatory approval, we may not be able to realize revenues at a level that would allow us to achieve or sustain profitability.. Accordingly, we may never generate significant revenue and, even if we do generate significant revenue, we may never achieve profitability.. We will require substantial additional funds to complete our research and development activities.. Our business currently does not generate the cash that is necessary to finance our operations. Subject to the success of the research and development programs of our company and our partners, and potential licensing or partnering transactions, we will likely need to raise additional capital to:. <U+25CF>  Fund research and development infrastructure and activities relating to the development of our drug candidates, including pre-clinical and clinical trials and manufacturing to support these efforts;. 30. <U+25CF>  Fund our general and administrative infrastructure and activities;. <U+25CF>  Pursue business development opportunities for our technologies;. <U+25CF>  Add to and protect our intellectual property; and. <U+25CF>  Retain our management and technical staff.. Our future capital needs depend on many factors, including:. •  The scope, duration, and expenditures associated with our research and development;. •  Regulatory requirements for our clinical trials;. •  The extent to which our R&D and clinical efforts are successful;. •  The outcome of potential partnering or licensing transactions, if any, and the extent to which our business development efforts result in the acquisition of new programs or technologies;. •  Competing technological developments;. •  Our intellectual property positions, if any, in our products; and. •  The regulatory approval process and regulatory standards for our drug candidates.. We will need to raise additional funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or additional strategic alliances and licensing arrangements in the future to continue our operations. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. General market conditions may make it very difficult for us to seek financing from the capital markets, and the terms of any financing may adversely affect the holdings or the rights of our stockholders. For example, if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, further dilution to our stockholders will result, which may substantially dilute the value of your investment. In addition, as a condition to providing additional funds to us, future investors may demand, and may be granted, rights superior to those of existing stockholders. Debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants that could limit our flexibility in conducting future business activities and, in the event of insolvency, would be paid before holders of equity securities received any distribution of corporate assets. In order to raise additional funds through alliance, joint venture or licensing arrangements, we may be required to relinquish rights to our technologies or drug candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If adequate funds are not available, we may have to further delay, reduce or eliminate one or more of our planned activities. These actions would likely reduce the market price of our common stock.. If the estimates we make, or the assumptions on which we rely, in preparing our consolidated financial statements prove inaccurate, our actual results may vary from those reflected in our accruals.. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, the amounts of charges accrued by us and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. We cannot assure you, however, that our estimates, or the assumptions underlying them, will be correct.. The investment of our cash, cash equivalents and fixed income marketable securities is subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments.. At September 30, 2017, we had $40.8 million in fixed income marketable securities. These investments are in corporate bonds nearing maturity, but our investments may also include commercial paper, securities issued by the U.S. government obligations, certificates of deposit and money market funds meeting the criteria of our investment policy, which is focused on the preservation of our capital. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, and market and interest rate risks, particularly in the current economic environment. We may realize losses in the fair value of these investments or a complete loss of these investments, which would have a negative effect on our consolidated financial statements. In addition, should our investments cease paying or reduce the amount of interest paid to us, our interest income would suffer. The market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.. Investment and Securities Risks. 31. Our Board of Directors has adopted a rights agreement and has the authority to issue shares of \"blank check\" preferred stock, which may make an acquisition of the Company by another company more difficult.. We have adopted and may in the future adopt certain measures that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a takeover or other change in control of the Company that a holder of our Common Stock might consider in its best interest.  For example, on March 21, 2017, we entered into a rights agreement. The effect of this agreement could delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us or replacing members of our Board of Directors, or make more costly any attempt to acquire control of the Company, even if the acquisition or the board designees would be beneficial to our stockholders. Further, our Board of Directors, without further action by our stockholders, currently has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to fix the rights (including voting rights), preferences and privileges of these shares (\"blank check\" preferred). Such preferred stock may have rights, including economic rights, senior to our Common Stock. These factors could also reduce the price that certain investors might be willing to pay for shares of our Common Stock and result in the market price being lower than it would be without these provisions.. We do not intend to declare cash dividends on our Common Stock.. We will not distribute cash to our stockholders unless and until we can develop sufficient funds from operations to meet our ongoing needs and implement our business plan. The time frame for that is unpredictable and investors should not expect dividends in the near future, if at all.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research reports about our business or if they make adverse recommendations regarding an investment in our stock, our stock price and trading volume may decline.. The trading market for our Common Stock can be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about our business. Currently, coverage of our Company by industry and securities analysts is limited. Investors have many investment opportunities and may limit their investments to companies that receive greater coverage from analysts. If additional industry or securities analysts do not commence coverage of the Company, the trading price of our stock could be negatively impacted. If one or more of the analysts downgrade our stock or comment negatively on our prospects, our stock price may decline. If one or more of these analysts cease to cover our industry or us or fail to publish reports about the Company regularly, our Common Stock could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could also cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Further, incorrect judgments, estimates or assumptions made by research analysts may adversely affect our stock price, particularly if subsequent performance falls below the levels that were projected by the research analyst(s), even if we did not set or endorse such expectations.  Any of these events could cause further volatility in our stock price and could result in substantial declines in the value of our stock.. The market for purchases and sales of our Common Stock may be limited, and the sale of a limited number of shares could cause the price to fall sharply.. Although our Common Stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, at various times our securities are relatively thinly traded. Investor trading patterns could serve to exacerbate the volatility of the price of our stock. For example, mandatory sales of our Common Stock by institutional holders could be triggered if an investment in our Common Stock no longer satisfies their investment standards and guidelines. It may be difficult to sell shares of our Common Stock quickly without significantly depressing the value of the stock. Unless we are successful in developing continued investor interest in our stock, sales of our stock could result in major fluctuations in the price of the stock.. Our Common Stock price has fluctuated significantly over the last several years and may continue to do so in the future, without regard to our results of operations and prospects.. Because we are early in the stage of our drug development, there are few objective metrics by which our progress may be measured. Consequently, we expect that the market price of our Common Stock will continue to fluctuate significantly. We may not generate substantial revenue from the license or sale of our technology for several years, if at all. In the absence of product revenue as a measure of our operating performance, we anticipate that investors and market analysts will assess our performance by considering factors such as:. <U+25CF>  Announcements of developments related to our business;. <U+25CF>  Our ability to enter into or extend investigation phase, development phase, commercialization phase and other agreements with new and/or existing partners;. <U+25CF>  Announcements regarding the status of any or all of our collaborations or products, including clinical trial results;. <U+25CF>  Market perception and/or investor sentiment regarding our technology;. <U+25CF>  Announcements of actions taken by regulatory authorities, such as the U.S. Food and Drug Administration;. 32. <U+25CF>  Announcements regarding developments in the RNA interference or biotechnology fields in general;. <U+25CF>  Announcements regarding clinical trial results with our products or competitors' products;. <U+25CF>  Market perception and/or announcements regarding other companies developing products in the field of biotechnology generally or specifically RNA interference;  <U+25CF>  The issuance of competitive patents or disallowance or loss of our patent rights;. <U+25CF>  The addition or departure of key executives; and. <U+25CF>  Variations in our operating results.. We will not have control over many of these factors but expect that they may influence our stock price. As a result, our stock price may be volatile and such volatility could result in the loss of all or part of your investment.. Stockholder equity interest may be substantially diluted in any additional equity issuances.. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of 145,000,000 shares of Common Stock and 5,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, on such terms and at such prices as our Board of Directors may determine. The following serves as a summary of share issuance activity during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017:. •  2,670,989 shares of Common Stock pursuant to the conversion of certain Preferred Stock held by the Company's shareholders;. •  1,745,810 shares of Common Stock to Amgen, Inc. pursuant to the Common Stock Purchase Agreement entered into with Amgen in September 2016;. •  621,942 shares of Common Stock pursuant to the exercise of stock options, warrants and exchange rights and the vesting of restricted stock units;. As of September 30, 2017, we had 74,785,426 shares of Common Stock issued and outstanding. The issuance of additional securities in financing transactions by us or through the exercise of options or warrants will dilute the equity interests of our existing stockholders, perhaps substantially, and could result in dilution in the tangible net book value of a share of our Common Stock, depending upon the price and other terms on which the additional shares are issued.. Risks Inherent in Our Industry. Drug development is time consuming, expensive and risky.. We are focused on technology related to new and improved pharmaceutical candidates. Product candidates that appear promising in the early phases of development, such as in animal and early human clinical trials, often fail to reach the market for a number of reasons, such as:. <U+25CF>  Clinical trial results may be unacceptable, even though preclinical trial results were promising;. <U+25CF>  Inefficacy and/or harmful side effects in humans or animals;. <U+25CF>  The necessary regulatory bodies, such as the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, may not approve our potential product for the intended use, or at all; and. <U+25CF>  Manufacturing and distribution may be uneconomical.. For example, any positive pre-clinical results in animals for our pre-clinical programs may not be replicated in human clinical studies. These programs may be also found to be unsafe in humans, particularly at higher doses needed to achieve the desired levels of efficacy. Also, the positive safety results from single dose human clinical studies may not be replicated in other human studies, including multiple dose studies. Clinical and pre-clinical study results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations by scientists, medical personnel, regulatory personnel, statisticians and others, which often delays, limits, or prevents further clinical development or regulatory approvals of potential products. Clinical trials can take many years to complete, including the process of study design, clinical site selection and the recruitment of patients. As a result, we can experience significant delays in completing clinical studies, which can increase the cost of developing a drug candidate and shorten the time that an approved product may be protected by patents. If our drug candidates are not successful in human clinical trials, we may be forced to curtail or abandon certain development programs. If we experience significant delays in commencing or completing our clinical studies, we could suffer from significant cost overruns, which could negatively affect our capital resources and our ability to complete these studies.. 33. The healthcare system is under significant financial pressure to reduce costs, which could reduce payment and reimbursement rates for drugs.. Throughout the world and particularly in the United States the healthcare system is under significant financial pressure to reduce costs.  The price of pharmaceuticals has been a topic of considerable public discussion that could lead to price controls or other price-limiting strategies by payors that have the effect of lowering payment and reimbursement rates for drugs or otherwise making the commercialization of pharmaceuticals less profitable. These effects could reduce or eliminate our ability to return value to our shareholders.. Regulatory standards are subject to change over time, making it difficult to accurately predict the likelihood of marketing approval even when clinical trials meet their endpoints.. Regulatory standards are promulgated by various government entities and are subject to change based on factors such as scientific developments, public perceptions of risk, and political forces.  Because clinical trials often take years to complete, it is sometimes possible for standards that exist during the conception and initiation of a clinical trial to change before the clinical trial is completed or reviewed by government regulators.  While some government entities have safeguards intended to ensure standards agreed upon by sponsors and regulators at the outset of a clinical trial are applied during regulatory review processes, those safeguards generally permit regulators to apply more rigorous standards where regulators believe doing so is necessary.  As such, there can be no assurance that regulatory standards that are appropriate at the outset of a clinical trial program will not become more rigorous during the regulatory approval process and could potentially result in a delayed approval or denial of marketing authorization."
