[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business. The asset management, advisory and hospitality product and services businesses are highly competitive.. The asset management, advisory and hospitality product and services businesses are highly competitive. Competition in these businesses is driven by a variety of factors including: asset and investment performance; the quality of service provided to the companies we advise; investor perception of an asset and investment manager's drive, focus and alignment of interest; terms of investment, including the level of fees and expenses charged for services; our actual or perceived financial condition, liquidity and stability; the duration of relationships with investors; brand recognition; and business reputation. We expect to face competition. 15. primarily from other asset, service and investment management firms, private equity funds, hedge funds, other financial institutions, sovereign wealth funds, corporate buyers and other parties. A number of factors serve to increase our competitive risks:. • other asset managers or advisors may have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources and more personnel than we do;. • other asset managers or advisors may offer more products and services than we do or be more adept at developing, marketing and managing new products and services than we are;. • Ashford Trust, Ashford Prime, and other companies that we may advise may not perform as well as the clients of other asset managers;. • several other asset managers or advisors and their clients have significant amounts of capital and many of them have similar management and investment objectives to ours which may create additional competition for advisory opportunities;. • some of these other asset managers' or advisors' clients may also have a lower cost of capital and access to funding sources that are not available to us or the companies that we advise, which may create competitive disadvantages for us with respect to funding opportunities;. • some of these other asset managers' or advisors' clients may have higher risk tolerance, different risk assessment or a lower return threshold, which could allow them to facilitate the acquisition and management by their clients of a wider variety of assets and allow them to consider a broader range of investments and to advise their clients to bid more aggressively for investment opportunities on which we would advise our clients to bid;. • there are relatively few barriers to entry impeding new asset management or advisory companies and the successful efforts of new entrants into the asset management businesses are expected to continue to result in increased competition;. • some other asset managers or advisors may have better expertise or be regarded by potential clients as having better expertise with regard to specific assets or investments;. • other asset managers or advisors may have more scalable platforms and may operate more efficiently than us;. • other asset managers or advisors may have better brand recognition than us and there is no assurance that we will maintain a positive brand in the future;. • other industry participants may from time to time seek to recruit members of our management or investment teams and other employees away from us;. • an increase in the allocation of capital to our asset strategies by institutional and individual investors could lead to a reduction in the size and duration of pricing inefficiencies that we may seek to exploit;. • a decrease in the allocation of capital to our asset strategies could intensify competition for that capital and lead to difficulty in raising new capital; and. • the market for qualified professionals is intensely competitive and our ability to continue to compete effectively will also depend upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate our employees.. Our inability to effectively compete on these and other areas may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The investments of the entities we currently advise and provide other products and services to are concentrated in the hotel industry. Our business would be adversely affected by an economic downturn in that sector, and we will be significantly influenced by the economies and other conditions in the specific markets in which our asset management clients operate.. Substantially all of the investments of Ashford Trust and Ashford Prime and the investments of clients we provide other products and services to are concentrated in the hotel industry. These concentrations may expose such entities, and therefore us, to the risk of economic downturns in the hotel real estate sector to a greater extent than if the investments of such entities were diversified across other sectors of the real estate or other industries. Similarly, we are particularly susceptible to adverse market conditions in areas in which our asset management clients have high concentrations of properties. Industry downturns, relocation of businesses, any oversupply of hotel rooms, a reduction in lodging demand or other adverse economic developments in the hotel industry generally or in areas where our asset management clients have a high concentration of properties could adversely affect us.. Failure of the hotel industry to exhibit sustained improvement or to improve as expected may adversely affect us.. A substantial part of our business plan is based on management's belief that the lodging markets will continue to experience stable or improving economic fundamentals in the future. There can be no assurance as to whether or to what extent, lodging industry fundamentals will remain stable or continue to improve. If conditions in the industry do not remain stable or improve as expected, or deteriorate, we may be adversely affected.. 16. We are subject to substantial regulation, numerous contractual obligations and extensive internal policies and failure to comply with these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We and our subsidiaries will be subject to substantial regulation, numerous contractual obligations and extensive internal policies. Given our organizational structure, we are subject to regulation by the SEC, the Internal Revenue Service, and other federal, state and local governmental bodies and agencies. We also will be responsible for managing the regulatory aspects of Ashford Trust and Ashford Prime, including compliance with applicable REIT rules. These regulations are extensive, complex and require substantial management time and attention. If we fail to comply with any of the regulations that apply to our business or the businesses of Ashford Trust, Ashford Prime or other entities that we advise, we could be subjected to extensive investigations as well as substantial penalties, and our business and operations could be materially adversely affected. We also will have numerous contractual obligations that we must adhere to on a continuous basis to operate our business, the default of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. While we have designed policies to appropriately operate our business and the entities we advise, these internal policies may not be effective in all regards and, further, if we fail to comply with our internal policies, we could be subjected to additional risk and liability.. We may do business internationally, which may subject us to numerous political, economic, market, reputational, operational, legal, regulatory and other risks that could adversely impact our business and results of operations.. We have limited experience operating internationally but we may do so in the near future, in our capacity as advisor to an entity with international operations. As a result of any future international operations conducted by us, our business and financial results in the future could be adversely affected due to currency fluctuations, social or judicial instability, acts or threats of terrorism, changes in governmental policies or policies of central banks, expropriation, nationalization and/or confiscation of assets, price controls, fund transfer restrictions, capital controls, exchange rate controls, taxes, inadequate intellectual property protection, unfavorable political and diplomatic developments, changes in legislation or regulations and other additional international developments or restrictive actions. These risks are especially acute in emerging markets. Many non-U.S. jurisdictions in which we may do business have been negatively impacted by recessionary conditions. These jurisdictions may continue to experience increasing levels of stress. In addition, the risk of default on sovereign debt in some non-U.S. jurisdictions could expose us to substantial losses. Any such unfavorable conditions or developments could have an adverse impact on our businesses and results of operations.. We may also experience difficulty entering new international markets due to regulatory barriers, the necessity of adapting to new regulatory systems and problems related to entering new markets with different cultural bases and political systems. These difficulties may prevent, or significantly increase the cost of, our international expansion.. In addition, changes in policies or laws of the U.S. or foreign governments resulting in, among other things, higher taxation, currency conversion limitations, restrictions on fund transfers or the expropriation of private enterprises, could reduce the anticipated benefits of our international expansion. Any actions by countries in which we conduct business to reverse policies that encourage investment could adversely affect our business. If we fail to realize the anticipated growth of our future international operations, our business and operating results could suffer.. Our ability to raise capital and attract investors for our existing and potential advisory clients and our performance is critical to our ability to earn fees and grow our businesses.. The base advisory fees that we earn in our asset management business are based on the total market capitalization of the entities that we advise. Accordingly, our base fees are expected to increase if we are able to successfully raise capital in the equity markets for our existing and potential clients. Further, the incentive fees we earn in our asset management business will be primarily driven by the outperformance of our clients as compared with their respective peers, based on total stockholder return.. Our ability to earn these fees is subject to a number of risks, many of which are beyond our control, including monetary and fiscal policies, domestic and international economic conditions, political considerations and capital markets. To the extent that general capital markets activity slows down or comes to a halt, our clients may have difficulty growing. This risk is based on micro- and macro-economic market factors including but not limited to disruptions in the debt and equity capital markets, resulting in the lack of access to capital or prohibitively high costs of obtaining or replacing capital. Despite recent improvements, the markets could suffer another severe downturn and another liquidity crisis could emerge.. 17. We are predominantly dependent on Ashford Trust and Ashford Prime as our only current asset management clients for a substantial portion of our operating revenue, the loss of either of which, or their failure or inability to pay any amounts owed to us, including under their advisory agreements, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects and results of operations. Ashford Trust and Ashford Prime are also customers of our consolidated subsidiaries that provide products and services to the hospitality industry.. Ashford Trust and Ashford Prime are the only companies for which we currently provide asset management advisory services. Ashford Trust and Ashford Prime are also customers of our consolidated subsidiaries that provide products and services to the hospitality industry. Therefore, our business is subject to the risks of the businesses of each entity. The loss or failure of either company, termination of either advisory agreement, the failure or inability of either company to pay us any amounts owed under their respective advisory agreements or other contracts, and particularly their failure or inability to pay all or a portion of any applicable termination fee, would adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects and results of operations. Additionally, these companies could sell assets over time, decreasing their market capitalization, and thereby cause our advisory fees and other revenues to decrease, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We depend on our key personnel with long-standing business relationships. The loss of such key personnel could threaten our ability to operate our business successfully.. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, upon the continued services of our management team and key employees of the businesses we have acquired and may in the future acquire. In particular, the hotel industry and/or investment experience of Messrs. Monty J. Bennett, Douglas A. Kessler, Richard J. Stockton, David A. Brooks, Deric S. Eubanks, Jeremy J. Welter, Mark L. Nunneley and J. Robison Hays, III, and the extent and nature of the relationships they have developed with hotel franchisors, operators, and owners and hotel lending and other financial institutions are critically important to the success of our business. The loss of services of one or more members of our management or investment teams could harm our business and our prospects.. The prior performance of Ashford Trust and Ashford Prime is not indicative of our future performance.. We have presented information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K regarding the historical results of Ashford Trust and Ashford Prime. When considering this information you should consider that the historical results of Ashford Trust and Ashford Prime are not indicative of the future results that you should expect from us or our common stock. There are significant differences between Ashford Trust and Ashford Prime and us, and our financial condition and results of operations could vary significantly because our investment, financing, business and other strategies differ from those of Ashford Trust and Ashford Prime.. As described elsewhere in this document, our future results are subject to many uncertainties and other factors that could cause our financial condition and results of operations to be materially different than that of Ashford Trust and Ashford Prime.. If we are unable to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, the reliability of our financial statements may be questioned and our stock price may suffer.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires any company subject to the reporting requirements of the U.S. securities laws to do a comprehensive evaluation of its and its consolidated subsidiaries' internal control over financial reporting. To comply with this statute, we will eventually be required to document and test our internal control procedures, our management will be required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal control over financial reporting, and our independent auditors will be required to issue an opinion on their audit of our internal control over financial reporting. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards under the rules. During the course of its testing, our management may identify material weaknesses or deficiencies which may not be remedied in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If our management cannot favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or our auditors identify material weaknesses in our internal controls, investor confidence in our financial results may weaken, and our stock price may suffer.. Our platform may not be as scalable as we anticipate and we could face difficulties growing our business without significant new investment in personnel and infrastructure.. While we believe our platform for operating our business is highly scalable and can support significant growth without substantial new investment in personnel and infrastructure on a relative basis, we may be wrong in that assessment. It is possible that if our business grows substantially, we will need to make significant new investment in personnel and infrastructure to support that growth. We may be unable to make significant investments on a timely basis or at reasonable costs, and our failure in this regard could disrupt our business and operations.. 18. If our portfolio management techniques and strategies are not effective, we may be exposed to material unanticipated losses.. Our portfolio management techniques and strategies may not fully mitigate the risk exposure of our operations in all economic or market environments, or against all types of risk, including risks that we might fail to identify or anticipate. Any failures in our portfolio management techniques and strategies to accurately quantify such risk exposure could limit our ability to manage risks in our operations and could result in losses.. We may grow our business through the acquisition of asset management services contracts, assets or companies, which entails substantial risk.. We may determine to grow our business through the acquisition of asset management, services contracts, assets or companies. Such acquisitions entail substantial risk. During our due diligence of such acquisitions, we may not discover all relevant liabilities and we may have limited, if any, recourse against the sellers. We also may not successfully integrate the asset contracts or companies that we acquire into our business and operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. Additionally, to the extent such acquisitions result in us entering new lines of business, we may become subject to new laws and regulations with which we are not familiar, or from which we are currently exempt, potentially leading to increased litigation and regulatory risk. Moreover, we may grow our business through joint ventures, in which case we will be subject to additional risks and uncertainties in that we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to systems, control and personnel that are not under our control.. Certain provisions of Maryland law could inhibit changes in control.. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law (the \"MGCL\") may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or impeding a change of control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our stockholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our common stock, including:. •\"business combination\" provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an \"interested stockholder\" (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or an affiliate thereof) for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter impose special stockholder voting requirements on these business combinations, unless certain fair price requirements set forth in the MGCL are satisfied; and. •\"control share\" provisions that provide that \"control shares\" of our company (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a \"control share acquisition\" (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of outstanding \"control shares\") have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares.. Our bylaws opt out of the \"control share\" provisions for certain persons and entities, but we may later amend our bylaws to modify or eliminate these opt-out provisions.. Our charter provides that a director may be removed only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the voting power of the then issued and outstanding shares of capital stock entitled to be cast in the election of directors. Subtitle 8 of Title 3 of the MGCL permits a Maryland corporation with a class of equity securities registered under the Exchange Act and at least three independent directors to elect to be subject, notwithstanding any contrary provision in the charter or bylaws, to any or all of the following five provisions: a classified board; a two-thirds stockholder vote requirement for removal of a director; a requirement that the number of directors be fixed only by vote of the directors; a requirement that a vacancy on the board of directors be filled only by the remaining directors and for the remainder of the full term of the class of directors in which the vacancy occurred; and a requirement that the holders of at least a majority of all votes entitled to be cast request a special meeting of stockholders. Through provisions in our charter and bylaws unrelated to Subtitle 8, we already require that the number of directors be fixed only by our board of directors and require, unless called by the Chairman of our board of directors, our chief executive officer or a majority of our board of directors, the written request of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of the then issued and outstanding shares of capital stock to call a special meeting. Additionally, our charter currently provides that directors are elected annually and does not currently provide for a classified board.. Our charter, bylaws and Maryland law contain other provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders.. 19. We have adopted a shareholder rights plan which could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us while the plan remains in effect.. We have in effect a shareholder rights plan that is intended to protect us from efforts to obtain control of our company that our board of directors believe are inconsistent with the best interests of our company and our stockholders. The rights will be exercisable ten days following the earlier of the public announcement that a stockholder (other than us, one of our subsidiaries or employee benefit plans or Mr. Monty J. Bennett and certain of his affiliates and associates (so long as they beneficially own 20% or less of our common stock)) has acquired beneficial ownership of 10% or more of our common stock without the approval of our board of directors or the announcement of a tender offer or exchange offer that would result in the ownership of 10% or more of our common stock by a person or group of persons (other than one or more of the excluded persons described above). The rights also become exercisable if a person or group that already beneficially owns 10% or more of our common stock (other than one or more of the excluded persons described above) acquires any additional shares of our common stock without the approval of our board of directors. If the rights become exercisable, all rights holders (other than the person/entity triggering the rights) will be entitled to acquire certain of our securities at a substantial discount. The rights may substantially dilute the stock ownership of a person or group attempting to take over our company without the approval of our board of directors, and the rights plan could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire our company or a significant percentage of our outstanding shares of common stock, without first negotiating with our board of directors. The rights are set to expire on the date of the 2018 annual meeting of stockholders unless at such meeting our stockholders vote to approve an extension to the expiration date.. Stockholders have limited control over changes in our policies and operations, which increases the uncertainty and risks they face as stockholders.. Our board of directors determines our major policies, including our policies regarding growth and distributions. Our board of directors may amend or revise these and other policies without a vote of our stockholders. We may change our corporate policies without stockholder notice or consent, which could result in investments or activities that are different than, or in different proportion than, those described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Under the MGCL, our charter and our bylaws, stockholders will have a right to vote only on limited matters. Our board of directors' broad discretion in setting policies and stockholders' inability to exert control over those policies increases the uncertainty and risks stockholders face.. Our organizational documents do not limit our ability to enter into new lines of businesses, and we may expand into new investment strategies, geographic markets and businesses, each of which may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our businesses.. We may, to the extent that market conditions permit, is to grow our business and expand into new investment strategies, geographic markets and businesses. Our organizational documents do not limit us to the management of assets or operation of service businesses within the hospitality industry. Accordingly, we may pursue growth through acquisitions of asset management and service contracts, assets or companies, acquisitions of critical business partners or other strategic initiatives. To the extent we make strategic investments or acquisitions, undertake other strategic initiatives or enter into a new line of business, we will face numerous risks and uncertainties, including risks associated with: (i) the required investment of capital and other resources; (ii) the possibility that we have insufficient expertise to engage in such activities profitably or without incurring inappropriate amounts of risk; (iii) combining or integrating operational and management systems and controls; and (iv) the broadening of our geographic footprint, including the risks associated with conducting operations in non-U.S. jurisdictions. Entry into certain lines of business may subject us to new laws and regulations with which we are not familiar, or from which we are currently exempt, and may lead to increased litigation and regulatory risk. If a new business generates insufficient revenues or if we are unable to efficiently manage our expanded operations, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Our strategic initiatives may include joint ventures, in which case we will be subject to additional risks and uncertainties in that we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control.. Our constituent documents designate the Circuit Court for Baltimore City, Maryland, or if that Court does not have jurisdiction because the action asserts a federal claim, the United States District Court for the District of Maryland, Baltimore Division as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees.. Our constituent documents provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Circuit Court for Baltimore City, Maryland, or if that Court does not have jurisdiction because the action asserts a federal claim, the United States District Court for the District of Maryland, Baltimore Division is the sole and exclusive forum for: (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders or any breach of a standard of conduct of directors; (iii) any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers, employees or agents arising pursuant to any provision of the MGCL, our charter or bylaws; or (iv) any other action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers, employees or agents that is governed. 20. by the internal affairs doctrine. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring or holding any interest in shares of our capital stock shall be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to the provisions of our constituent documents described above. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and employees. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our constituent documents inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our amended and restated bylaws contains a provision that prevents certain stockholders from initiating a claim on behalf of the Company or any group of stockholders, against the Company or against any director of officer of the Company, unless the claiming stockholder meets certain requirements.. On February 27, 2018 our board of directors approved and adopted the Second Amended and Restated Bylaws of the company, which adds a provision that requires that stockholders meet certain ownership thresholds in order to initiate claims on behalf of the Company and/or any class of current and/or prior stockholders against the Company and/or against and director and/or officer of the Company. The new provision will be submitted to a binding advisory vote of the Company's stockholders at the Company's 2018 Annual Meeting of Stockholders with the intent that the new provision will be rescinded if not approved at such meeting.. While this provision is effective, including if the stockholders vote to approve the provision at the 2018 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, certain stockholders may be prevented from initiating derivative actions or other claims against the Company and its directors and officers unless the claiming stockholder meets the ownership requirements set forth in our Bylaws.. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, we will not be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, including those relating to disclosure about our executive compensation, that apply to other public companies unless we opt to do so.. We are subject to reporting and other obligations under the Exchange Act. In April 2012, the JOBS Act was enacted into law. The JOBS Act contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for \"emerging growth companies,\" including certain requirements relating to accounting standards and compensation disclosure unless we irrevocably opt to comply with such requirements. We are an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in the JOBS Act. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, which may be up to five full fiscal years, unlike other public companies, we will not be required to:. • provide an auditor's attestation report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of our system of internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act,. • comply with any new requirements adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (the \"PCAOB\") requiring mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor's report in which the auditor would be required to provide additional information about the audit and the financial statements of the issuer,. • provide certain disclosure regarding executive compensation, or. • hold stockholder advisory votes on executive compensation.. We have irrevocably opted into complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards applicable to public companies and thus will be required to comply with such standards.. Our status as an \"emerging growth company\" under the JOBS Act may make it more difficult to raise capital as and when we need it.. Because of the exemptions from various reporting requirements provided to us as an \"emerging growth company\" and because we will have an extended transition period for complying with accounting standards newly issued or revised after April 5, 2012, we may be less attractive to investors, and it may be difficult for us to raise additional capital as and when we need it. Investors may be unable to compare our business with other companies in our industry if they believe that our financial accounting is not as transparent as other companies in our industry. If we are unable to raise additional capital as and when we need it, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. We are subject to financial reporting and other requirements for which our accounting, internal audit and other management systems and resources may not be adequately prepared and we may not be able to accurately report our financial results.. Following our separation from Ashford Trust, we became subject to reporting and other obligations under the Exchange Act, including the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404(a) requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. These reporting and other obligations place significant demands on our management, administrative, operational, internal audit and accounting resources and cause us to incur significant expenses.. 21. We may need to upgrade our systems or create new systems; implement additional financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures; expand our internal audit function; and hire additional accounting, internal audit and finance staff. If we are unable to accomplish these objectives in a timely and effective fashion, our ability to comply with the financial reporting requirements and other rules that apply to reporting companies could be impaired. Any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price.. For as long as we are an \"emerging growth company\" under the JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(b). We could be an emerging growth company for up to five years. An independent assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls could detect problems that our management's assessment might not. Undetected material weaknesses in our internal controls could lead to financial statement restatements and require us to incur the expense of remediation.. We are increasingly dependent on information technology, and potential cyber-attacks, security problems or other disruption and expanding social media vehicles present new risks.. We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes, including financial transactions and records, personal identifying information, billing and operating data. We may purchase some of our information technology from vendors, on whom our systems depend, and rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential operator and other customer information. We depend upon the secure transmission of this information over public networks. Our networks and storage applications are subject to unauthorized access by hackers or others through cyber-attacks, which are rapidly evolving and becoming increasingly sophisticated, or by other means, or may be breached due to operator error, malfeasance or other system disruptions. In some cases, it will be difficult to anticipate or immediately detect such incidents and the damage caused thereby. Any significant breakdown, invasion, destruction, interruption or leakage of our systems could harm us.. In addition, the use of social media could cause us to suffer brand damage or information leakage. Negative posts or comments about us on any social networking website could damage our reputation. In addition, employees or others might disclose non-public sensitive information relating to our business through external media channels. The continuing evolution of social media will present us with new challenges and risks.. Changes in laws, regulations, or policies may adversely affect our business.. The laws and regulations governing our business or the businesses of our clients, or the regulatory or enforcement environment at the federal level or in any of the states in which we or our clients operate, may change at any time and may have an adverse effect on our business. For example, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, as it is phased in over time, will significantly affect the administration of health care services and could significantly impact our cost of providing employees with health care insurance. The recently enacted tax cuts and JOBS Act may limit the future deductions of interest expense we may incur. We are unable to predict how these or any other future legislative or regulatory proposals or programs will be administered or implemented or in what form, or whether any additional or similar changes to statutes or regulations, including the interpretation or implementation thereof, will occur in the future. Any such action could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our inability to remain in compliance with regulatory requirements in a particular jurisdiction could have a material adverse effect on our operations in that market and on our reputation generally. No assurance can be given that applicable laws or regulations will not be amended or construed differently or that new laws and regulations will not be adopted, either of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Risks Related to Conflicts of Interest. Our separation and distribution agreement, our advisory agreements, our mutual exclusivity agreement, the tax matters agreement and other agreements entered into in connection with our separation from Ashford Trust were not negotiated on an arm's-length basis, and we may be unable to enforce or may pursue less vigorous enforcement of their terms because of conflicts of interest with certain of our executive officers and directors and key employees of Ashford Trust and Ashford Prime and/or pending or future legal proceedings.. Because certain of our officers and one of our directors are also officers of Ashford Trust and Ashford Prime and have ownership interests in Ashford Trust and Ashford Prime, our separation and distribution agreement, our advisory agreements, our mutual exclusivity agreement, the tax matters agreement and other agreements entered into in connection with our separation from Ashford Trust were not negotiated on an arm's-length basis, and we did not have the benefit of arm's-length negotiations of the type normally conducted with an unaffiliated third party. As a result, the terms, including fees and other amounts payable, may not be as favorable to us as an arm's-length agreement. Furthermore, we may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights under. 22. these agreements because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with Ashford Trust, Ashford Prime and Remington Lodging. For example, we are entitled to indemnification from Ashford Trust OP in the event of breaches of certain provisions of, or misrepresentations made in, the separation and distribution agreement. In addition, we may be unable to enforce certain provisions of our advisory agreements with Ashford Trust or Ashford Prime, including as a result of pending or future legal proceedings. See \"Risk Factors- We are currently subject to legal proceedings related to our advisory agreement with Ashford Prime which, if adversely determined, could have a material adverse effect on our business.\". Our deferred compensation obligations may dilute your interest in our common stock.. Our deferred compensation plan, which plan has only two participants, Mr. Monty J. Bennett and his father Mr. Archie Bennett, Jr. Both Mr. Monty J. Bennett and Mr. Archie Bennett, Jr. have elected to invest their deferred compensation accounts in our common stock. As a result, we have an obligation to issue approximately 196,000 shares of our common stock to Mr. Monty J. Bennett over five years beginning in 2020, which is the end of Mr. Monty Bennett's deferral period. We also have an obligation to issue approximately 12,000 remaining shares of our common stock to Mr. Archie Bennett, Jr., over five years beginning in 2018, which is the end of Mr. Archie Bennett's deferral period. The issuance of these shares of our common stock will dilute current stockholder's and, if all such shares are issued, may result in a change of control of our company.. Our relationships with Remington Lodging, Ashford Trust, Ashford Prime and AIM could create significant conflicts of interest.. Our chief executive officer and chairman, Mr. Monty J. Bennett, serves as the chief executive officer of Remington Lodging, chairman of the board of Ashford Trust and chairman of the board of Ashford Prime. Additionally, Mr. Monty J. Bennett and his father, Mr. Archie Bennett, Jr., beneficially own 100% of Remington Lodging. Mr. Monty J. Bennett's obligations to Remington Lodging, Ashford Trust and Ashford Prime reduce the time and effort he spends managing our company, and his duties to us as a director and officer may conflict with his duties to, and pecuniary interest in, Remington Lodging, Ashford Trust and Ashford Prime.. We, through Ashford LLC, own approximately 100% of Management Holdco. Performance Holdco owns 99.99% of AIM GP. We, through Ashford LLC and our 100% ownership interest in Performance Holdco's general partner, own approximately 60% of Performance Holdco, and Mr. Monty J. Bennett and Mr. J. Robison Hays own, in the aggregate, 40% of Performance Holdco. AIM served as investment advisor to the AQUA Fund and AHT SMA, LP, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Ashford Trust. Mr. Bennett's and Mr. Hays' duties to us as directors and officers may conflict with their duties to, and pecuniary interests in, Performance Holdco.. Under the terms of our mutual exclusivity agreement with Remington Lodging, we may be obligated to utilize Remington Lodging as a property manager for hotels, if any, we may acquire in the future as well as future platforms that we advise, to the extent we have the discretion to do so, even if the utilization of Remington Lodging for such property management may not be the most advantageous for our hotels or future clients.. Our mutual exclusivity agreement with Remington Lodging requires us to utilize Remington Lodging to provide property management, project management and development services for all hotels, if any, that we may acquire as well as all hotels that future companies we advise may acquire, to the extent that we have the right, or control the right, to direct such matters, unless our independent directors either (i) unanimously vote not to utilize Remington Lodging for such services or (ii) based on special circumstances or past performance, by a majority vote elect not to engage Remington Lodging because they have determined, in their reasonable business judgment, that it would be in our best interest not to engage Remington Lodging or that another manager or developer could perform the duties materially better. In exchange for our agreement to engage Remington Lodging for such services for all hotels, if any, that we may acquire as well as all future companies that we advise, Remington Lodging has agreed to grant to any such future clients a first right of refusal to purchase any investments identified by Remington Lodging and any of its affiliates that meet the initial investment criteria of such entities, as identified in the advisory agreement between us and such entities, subject to any prior rights granted by Remington Lodging to other entities, including Ashford Trust, Ashford Prime and us. Mr. Monty J. Bennett will potentially benefit from the receipt of property management fees, project management fees and development fees by Remington Lodging from us and such future companies that we advise. See \"Item 1. Business - Our Mutual Exclusivity Agreement.\" Mr. Monty J. Bennett's ownership interests in and management obligations to Remington Lodging present him with conflicts of interest in making management decisions related to the commercial arrangements between us, the clients we advise and Remington Lodging.. Under the terms of our mutual exclusivity agreement with Remington Lodging, Remington Lodging may be able to pursue lodging investment opportunities that compete with the businesses that we advise.. Pursuant to the terms of our mutual exclusivity agreement with Remington Lodging, if investment opportunities that satisfy the investment criteria of Ashford Trust, Ashford Prime or one of our future clients are identified by Remington Lodging or its. 23. affiliates, Remington Lodging will give such entity a written notice and description of the investment opportunity. The applicable entity will generally have 10 business days to either accept or reject the investment opportunity. If such entity rejects the opportunity, Remington Lodging may then pursue such investment opportunity, subject to any right of first refusal contractually granted by Remington Lodging to any other entity. As a result, it is possible that Remington Lodging could pursue an opportunity that fits within the investment criteria of an entity that we advise and compete with that entity or compete with us. In such a case, Mr. Monty J. Bennett, our chief executive officer and chairman, in his capacity as chief executive officer of Remington Lodging could be in a position of directly competing with us or an entity that we advise.. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation may result in certain corporate opportunities being assigned to Ashford Trust and Ashford Prime.. The provisions of our certificate of incorporation provide that our directors and executive officers may also serve as directors, officers, employees, consultants or agents of Ashford Trust, Ashford Prime and their respective subsidiaries and that we may engage in material business transactions with such entities. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we will renounce our rights to certain business opportunities, and no director or officer of ours who is also serving as a director, officer, employee, consultant or agent of Ashford Trust, Ashford Prime or any of their subsidiaries will be liable to us or to our stockholders for breach of any fiduciary duty that would otherwise exist by reason of the fact that any such individual directs a corporate opportunity (other than certain limited types of opportunities set forth in the applicable advisory agreement) to Ashford Trust, Ashford Prime or any of their respective subsidiaries instead of us, or does not refer or communicate information regarding such corporate opportunities to us.. Certain of our executive officers, who are also executive officers or board members of Ashford Trust, Ashford Prime, or both, including our chief executive officer, who is also an executive officer of Remington Lodging, face competing demands relating to their time as well as potential conflicts of interest, and this may adversely affect our operations.. Certain of our executive officers are also executive officers or board members of Ashford Trust, Ashford Prime, or both. Because our executive officers have duties to Ashford Trust or Ashford Prime, as applicable, as well as to our company, we do not have their undivided attention. They face conflicts in allocating their time and resources between our company, Ashford Trust and Ashford Prime, as applicable, and they will continue to face increasing conflicts as we advise additional companies and platforms.. The organization and management of Ashford Trust and Ashford Prime and any companies we may advise in the future may create conflicts of interest.. We are or will be party to advisory and other agreements with Ashford Trust and Ashford Prime. These entities, along with any other businesses we may advise in the future will acquire assets consistent with their respective initial investment guidelines, but in each case, we will have discretion to determine which investment opportunities satisfy each such entity's initial investment guidelines. If, however, either Ashford Trust or Ashford Prime materially changes its investment guidelines without our express consent, we are required to use our best judgment to allocate investment opportunities to Ashford Trust, Ashford Prime and other entities we advise, taking into account such factors as we deem relevant, in our discretion, subject to any then-existing obligations we may have to such other entities. If a portfolio investment opportunity cannot be equitably divided by asset type and acquired on the basis of such asset types in satisfaction of each such entity's investment guidelines, we will allocate investment opportunities between Ashford Trust, Ashford Prime and any other businesses we advise in a fair and equitable manner, consistent with such entities' investment objectives. When determining the entity for which such a portfolio investment opportunity would be the most suitable, our investment professionals have substantial discretions and may consider, among other factors, the following:. • investment strategy and guidelines;. • portfolio concentrations;. • tax consequences;. • regulatory restrictions;. • liquidity requirements; and. • financing availability.. We may manage additional investment vehicles in the future and, in connection with the creation of such investment vehicles, may revise these allocation procedures. The result of a revision to the allocation procedures may, among other things, be to increase the number of parties who have the right to participate in investment opportunities sourced by us, increasing the risk of conflicts of interest.. The decision of how any potential investment should be allocated among Ashford Trust, Ashford Prime and any other companies we may advise in the future, in many cases, may be a matter of subjective judgment, which will be made by us.. 24. Appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with one or more potential or actual conflicts of interest. Litigation in connection with conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, which could materially adversely affect our business and our ability to attract investors for future vehicles. See \"Risk Factors- We are currently subject to legal proceedings related to our advisory agreement with Ashford Prime which, if adversely determined, could have a material adverse effect on our business.\". Our fiduciary duties as the sole manager of our operating company could create conflicts of interest with our fiduciary duties to our stockholders.. We, as the sole manager of Ashford Hospitality Holdings, LLC, which wholly owns our operating company, have fiduciary duties to the other members of Ashford Hospitality Holdings, LLC, the discharge of which may conflict with the interests of our stockholders. The operating agreement of Ashford LLC provides that, in the event of a conflict in the fiduciary duties owed by us to our stockholders and, in our capacity as manager of our operating company, to the members of Ashford Hospitality Holdings, LLC, we may act in the best interest of our stockholders without violating our fiduciary duties to the members of Ashford Hospitality Holdings, LLC or being liable for any resulting breach of our duties to the members, subject in all cases to the implied contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing which, pursuant to Maryland law, cannot be waived. In addition, those persons holding Ashford Hospitality Holdings, LLC common units will have the right to vote on certain amendments to the operating agreement (which require approval by a majority in interest of the members, including us) and individually to approve certain amendments that would adversely affect their rights. These voting rights may be exercised in a manner that conflicts with the interests of our stockholders. For example, we are unable to modify the rights of Ashford Hospitality Holdings, LLC members to receive distributions as set forth in the operating agreement in a manner that adversely affects their rights without their consent, even though such modification might be in the best interest of our stockholders. In addition, conflicts may arise when the interests of our stockholders and the members of Ashford Hospitality Holdings, LLC diverge, particularly in circumstances in which there may be an adverse tax consequence to the members.. Our conflicts of interest policy may not adequately address all of the conflicts of interest that may arise with respect to our activities.. In order to minimize any actual or perceived conflicts of interest with our directors, officers or employees, we have adopted a conflicts of interest policy to address specifically some of the conflicts relating to our activities. Although under this policy the approval of a majority of our disinterested directors is required to approve any transaction, agreement or relationship in which any of our directors, officers, or employees, Ashford Trust or Ashford Prime has an interest, there is no assurance that this policy will be adequate to address all of the conflicts that may arise. In addition, the transactions and agreements entered into in connection with our formation prior to the separation and distribution have not been approved by any independent or disinterested persons.. Risks Related to Debt Financing. Although we do not currently have any debt at the corporate level, we have a corporate level revolving credit facility in place and may incur debt in the future, which may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. While we currently do not use leverage at the corporate level, we have a corporate level revolving credit facility in place. Also certain of our subsidiaries that provide products and services to the lodging industry use debt that has no recourse to Ashford Inc. or Ashford LLC. Our organizational documents do not limit our capacity to use leverage or limit the amount of debt that we may incur. We may, at any time, decide to use leverage to meet future capital needs. We may also, from time to time, use derivative instruments primarily to manage interest rate risk. Future indebtedness will increase our operating costs, particularly in periods of rising interest rates, and we cannot assure you that our hedging strategy and the derivatives that we use will adequately offset the risk of interest rate volatility or that our hedging transactions will not result in losses that may reduce the overall return on your investment."
