[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information set forth in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. Any of the risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition and could cause the trading price of our securities to decline significantly. The risk factors described below could also cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking and other statements contained in this report and other documents that we file with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. However, these are the risks we believe to be material as of the date of this report. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our future business or operating results.. Introduction. As with any publicly traded company, investing in our equity and debt securities carries risks. Our risk management strategy is designed to identify, measure, monitor and manage material risks that we can control and which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We have invested significant resources to develop the appropriate risk management policies and procedures to implement this strategy. Nonetheless, the future business environment is intrinsically uncertain and difficult to forecast and, as a result, our risk management methods may not be successful. For more information on our risk management strategy, see Item 1, \"Business  -  Risk Management  -  Risk Management Strategy.\". Insurance Risks. Our financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected by the occurrence of catastrophic events.. As part of our insurance and reinsurance operations, we assume substantial exposure to losses resulting from catastrophic events. Catastrophes can be caused by various unpredictable events, including, but not limited to, severe weather, floods, explosions, wildfires, volcanic eruptions, earthquakes and tsunamis. The severe weather events to which we are exposed include tropical storms, cyclones, hurricanes, winter storms, tornadoes, hailstorms and severe rainfall causing flash floods.. The incidence, severity and magnitude of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable and our losses from such catastrophes have been and can be substantial. In addition, we expect that increases in the values and concentrations of insured property will increase the severity of such occurrences in the future and that global climate change may increase the frequency and severity of severe weather events and flooding. Although we attempt to manage our exposure to such events through a multitude of approaches (including geographic diversification, geographic limits, individual policy limits, exclusions or limitations from coverage, purchase of reinsurance and expansion of supportive collateralized capacity), the availability of these management tools may be dependent on market factors and, to the extent available, may not respond in the way that we expect. In addition, a single catastrophic event could affect multiple geographic zones or the frequency or severity of catastrophic events could exceed our estimates. As a result, the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events or an unusual frequency of smaller events may result in substantial volatility in, and may materially affect, our business, financial condition or operating results.. The models we use to assess our exposure to losses from future catastrophes contain inherent uncertainties and our actual losses may therefore differ significantly from expectations.. To help assess our exposure to losses from catastrophes we use computer-based models which simulate multiple scenarios using a variety of assumptions. These models are developed in part by third party vendors and their effectiveness relies on the numerous inputs and assumptions contained within them, including, but not limited to, scientific research, historical data, exposure data provided by insureds and reinsureds, data on the terms and conditions of insurance policies and the professional judgment of our employees and other industry specialists. While the models have evolved considerably over time, they do not necessarily accurately measure the statistical distribution of future losses due to the inherent limitations of the inputs and assumptions on which they rely. These limitations are evidenced by significant variation in the results obtained from different models, material changes in model results over time due to refinement of the underlying data elements and assumptions and the uncertain predictive capability and performance of models over longer time intervals. The effect of these limitations is that future losses from catastrophic events may be larger and more frequent than expected or reported in our financial statements to date based on model assumptions, resulting in a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results.. Global climate change may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition if we do not adequately assess and price for any increased frequency and severity of catastrophes resulting from these environmental factors.. There is widespread consensus in the scientific community that there is a long-term upward trend in global air and sea temperatures which is likely to increase the severity and frequency of severe weather events over the coming decades. Rising sea. 34. Table of Contents. levels are also expected to add to the risks associated with coastal flooding in many geographical areas. Large scale climate change could also increase both the frequency and severity of natural catastrophes and our loss costs associated with property damage and business interruption due to storms, floods and other weather-related events. In addition, global climate change could impair our ability to predict the costs associated with future weather events and could also give rise to new environmental liability claims in the energy, manufacturing and other industries we serve.. Given the scientific uncertainty of predicting the effect of climate cycles and climate change on the frequency and severity of catastrophes and the lack of adequate predictive tools, we may not be able to adequately model the associated exposures and potential losses in connection with such catastrophes which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results.. Our operating results may be adversely affected by one or more large losses from events other than catastrophes.. Large losses from single events can occur if we are exposed to such events through more than one (re)insurance contract. Such losses are referred to as \"clash losses.\" We seek to manage our exposure to large losses from events other than catastrophes by identifying possible scenarios under which we could be exposed and limiting our exposure to these potential scenarios. Some of the more significant scenarios we have identified are terrorist attacks, fire, explosion or spill at a refinery or offshore oil and gas installation, the collapse of a major office building, accidents at nuclear power stations, a series of simultaneous cyber-attacks, the collision of two ships, an explosion in a port and the loss of a passenger airplane.. These risks are inherently unpredictable. It is difficult to predict the frequency of events of this nature and to estimate the amount of loss that any given occurrence will generate. Some of these large losses may also have the potential for exposure across multiple lines of business. As a consequence, our results could be materially adversely affected if there is an unexpected large number of clash losses in a period or if there is one or more of such losses of an unexpected large value. Our results may also be adversely affected if losses arise from a scenario we have not modeled.  To the extent that losses from these risks occur, our financial condition and operating results could be materially affected.. We could face unanticipated losses from war, terrorism and political unrest, government action that is hostile to commercial interests and from sovereign, sub-sovereign and corporate defaults, and these or other unanticipated losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results.. We have substantial exposure to unexpected, large losses resulting from man-made catastrophic events such as, but not limited to, acts of war, acts of terrorism and losses resulting from political instability, government action that is hostile to commercial interests and sovereign, sub-sovereign and corporate defaults. These risks are inherently unpredictable as it is difficult to predict their occurrence with statistical certainty or to estimate the amount of loss such an occurrence may generate. Terrorist attacks around the globe and ongoing unrest in the Middle East and North Korea have highlighted the unpredictable but increasingly present threat of terrorism and political instability.. Terrorist events could generate greater interest in political violence insurance coverage and greater awareness of the risks multinational corporations face in conflict-prone regions. We closely monitor the amount and types of coverage we provide for terrorism risk under insurance policies and reinsurance treaties. Even in cases where we have deliberately sought to exclude such coverage, there can be no assurance that a court or arbitration panel will interpret policy language or issue a ruling favorable to us. Accordingly, we may not be able to eliminate our exposure to terrorist events and there remains a risk that our reserves will not be adequate to cover such losses should they materialize. Notably, the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2015 (the \"2015 TRIA Reauthorization\") does not provide coverage for reinsurance losses.  In addition, we have limited terrorism coverage for exposure to catastrophe losses related to acts of terrorism in the reinsurance that we purchase. Although the 2015 TRIA Reauthorization provides benefits in the event of certain acts of terrorism occurring in the United States, those benefits are subject to a deductible and other limitations.. The 2015 TRIA Reauthorization, which extended the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 to December 31, 2020, fixed the insurer deductible at 20% of an insurer's direct earned premium of the preceding calendar year and the federal share of compensation at 85% of insured losses that exceed insurer deductibles, but only until January 1, 2016, from which time the federal share decreased, and will continue to decrease, by 1 percentage point per calendar year until it is equal to 80%. Given the unpredictable frequency and severity of terrorism losses and the limited terrorism coverage in our own reinsurance program, future losses from acts of terrorism could materially and adversely affect our operating results or financial condition.. Our operating results may be adversely affected by an unexpected accumulation of attritional losses.. In addition to our exposures to catastrophes and other large losses as discussed above, our operating results may be adversely affected by unexpectedly large accumulations of attritional losses. We seek to manage this risk by using appropriate underwriting processes to guide the pricing, terms and acceptance of risks. These processes, which may include pricing models, are intended. 35. Table of Contents. to ensure that premiums received are sufficient to cover the expected levels of attritional losses and a contribution to the cost of catastrophes and large losses where necessary. However, it is possible that our underwriting approaches or our pricing models may not work as intended and that actual losses from a class of risks may be greater than expected. Our pricing models are also subject to the same limitations as the models used to assess our exposure to catastrophe losses noted above. Accordingly, these factors could adversely impact our financial condition and/or operating results.. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain.. Claim and coverage issues can arise when the application of (re)insurance policy language to potentially covered claims is unclear or disputed by the parties. When such issues emerge they may adversely affect our business by extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until after we have issued (re)insurance contracts that are affected by such changes. As a result, the full extent of our liability under (re)insurance policies may not be known for many years after the policies are issued. Emerging claim and coverage issues could therefore have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In particular, our exposure to casualty (re)insurance lines increases our potential exposure to this risk due to the uncertainties of expanded theories of liability and the \"long-tail\" nature of these lines of business.. The monetary impact of certain claims may be difficult to predict or ascertain upon inception and potential losses from such claims can be significant. For example, the full extent of our liability and exposure from claims of bad faith is not ascertainable until the claim has been presented and investigated. As such, a significant award in monetary terms on the basis of bad faith could adversely affect our financial condition or operating results.. The (re)insurance business is historically cyclical and we expect to experience periods with excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable premium rates and policy terms and conditions.. The insurance and reinsurance industry has historically been cyclical. It is characterized by periods of intense competition on price and policy terms and conditions due to excessive underwriting capacity (a \"soft\" market) and periods when shortages of capacity permit favorable premium levels (a \"hard\" market). The supply of (re)insurance has increased over the past several years as a result of capital provided by new entrants to the market, including alternative third party capital providers, and the commitment of additional capital by existing or new (re)insurers which has caused premium rates to decrease. Further development of these factors could lead to a significant reduction in premium rates, less favorable policy terms and conditions and fewer submissions for our underwriting services. In addition, hard markets, if any, are likely to be shorter and more regional than in the past as a result of this new capital. Changes in the frequency and severity of losses suffered by insureds and insurers may also significantly affect the cycles of the (re)insurance business. If we fail to manage the cyclical nature of the (re)insurance business, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. A material proportion of our business relies on the assessment and pricing of individual risks by third parties.. We authorize managing general agents, general agents and other producers to write business on our behalf from time to time within underwriting authorities we prescribe. We rely on the underwriting controls of these agents and producers to write business within the underwriting authorities we provide. Although we monitor our underwriting on an ongoing basis, our monitoring efforts may not be adequate and our agents and producers may exceed their underwriting authorities or otherwise breach obligations owed to us. In addition, our agents, producers, insureds or other third parties may commit fraud or otherwise breach their obligation to us. To the extent that our agents, producers, insureds or other third parties exceed their authorities, commit fraud or otherwise breach obligations owed to us, our operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected.. Our reliance on third party assessment and pricing of individual risk extends to our reinsurance treaty business. Similar to other reinsurers, we do not separately evaluate each of the individual risks assumed under most reinsurance treaties. We are therefore largely dependent on the original underwriting decisions made by ceding companies. We are subject to the risk that the ceding companies may not have adequately evaluated the risks to be reinsured and that the premiums ceded to us may not adequately compensate us for the risks we assume and the losses we may incur. As a result of this reliance on ceding companies, our operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected.. The failure of any risk management and loss limitation methods we employ could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.. We employ various risk management and loss limitation methods. We seek to mitigate our loss exposure by writing a number of our insurance and reinsurance contracts on an excess of loss basis, such that we only pay losses that exceed a specified retention. We also seek to limit certain risks, such as catastrophes and political risks, by geographic diversification. Geographic zone limitations involve significant underwriting judgments, including the determination of zone boundaries and the allocation of policy limits to. 36. Table of Contents. zones. In the case of proportional (also known as pro rata) property reinsurance treaties, we often seek per occurrence limitations or loss and loss expense ratio caps to limit the impact of losses from any one event, although we may not be able to obtain such limits in certain markets. Various provisions in our policies intended to limit our risks, such as limitations or exclusions from certain coverage and choice of forum, may not always be enforceable. Purchasing reinsurance is another loss limitation method we employ which may not always respond in the way intended due to disputes relating to coverage terms, exclusions or counterparty credit risk.. We cannot guarantee that any of these loss limitation methods will be effective or that disputes relating to coverage will be resolved in our favor. As a result of the risks that we (re)insure, unforeseen events could result in claims that substantially exceed our expectations which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results.. The reinsurance that we purchase may not always be available on favorable terms or we may choose to retain a higher proportion of particular risks compared to previous years.. From time to time, market conditions have limited, and in some cases prevented, insurers and reinsurers from obtaining the types and amounts of reinsurance that they consider adequate for their business needs. Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain our desired amount of reinsurance or retrocession protection on terms that are acceptable to us from entities with a satisfactory credit rating or which is collateralized. Even if such capacity is available, we may also choose to retain a higher proportion of particular risks than in previous years due to pricing, terms and conditions or strategic emphasis. We may also seek alternative means of transferring risk, including expanded participation via our Aspen Capital Markets platform in alternative reinsurance structures. These solutions may not provide commensurate levels of protection compared to traditional retrocession. Our inability to obtain adequate reinsurance or other protection for our own account at favorable prices and on acceptable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected if actual claims exceed our loss reserves.. Our operating results and financial condition depend on our ability to accurately assess the potential losses associated with the risks that we (re)insure. While we believe that our loss reserves as of December 31, 2017 were adequate, establishing an appropriate level of loss reserves is an inherently uncertain process and requires a considerable amount of judgment. In addition, changes in the level of inflation also result in an increased level of uncertainty in our estimation of loss reserves, particularly for those lines of business that are considered \"long-tail,\" such as casualty, as they require a relatively long period of time to finalize and settle claims for a given accident year. To the extent actual claims exceed our expectations, we will be required to recognize the less favorable experience immediately which could cause a material increase in our provisions for liabilities and a reduction in our profitability, including operating losses and reduction of capital. For example, if catastrophic events or other large losses occur, we may fail to adequately estimate our reserve requirements and our actual losses and loss expenses may deviate, perhaps substantially, from our reserve estimates.. Only reserves applicable to losses incurred up to the reporting date may be set aside in our financial statements, with no allowance for future losses. However, there are specific areas of our current reserves which have additional uncertainty associated with them. In property reinsurance, there is uncertainty relating to the ultimate settlement of losses related to Hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria that occurred in the third quarter of 2017 and the California Wildfires that occurred in the fourth quarter of 2017. Some of these events have also impacted specialty reinsurance, marine and energy insurance and, to a lesser degree, there is a risk of litigation associated with the hurricanes which may affect casualty reinsurance. In casualty reinsurance, there are additional uncertainties associated with claims emanating from the 2008 global financial crisis and subsequent market events, and the potential for new types of claim to arise given the long-tail nature of many of the reinsurance risks. In the insurance segment, we wrote a book of financial institutions risks which have a number of notifications relating to the financial crisis in 2008 and subsequent market events. These factors can impact the claims adjustment processes which are dependent on the gathering of the necessary information on which to assess coverage, liability, causation and quantum.. Our calculation of reserves for losses and loss expenses also includes assumptions about future payments for settlement of claims and claims-handling expenses, such as medical treatment and litigation costs. We write casualty business in the United States, the United Kingdom, Australia and certain other territories where claims inflation has in many years run at higher rates than general inflation. To the extent inflation causes these costs to increase above reserves established for these claims, we will be required to increase our loss reserves with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period in which the deficiency is identified, which could materially adversely affect our financial results.. 37. Table of Contents. The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make many estimates and judgments that are more difficult than companies operating outside the financial sector.. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires us to make many estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities (including reserves), revenues and expenses and related disclosures of contingent liabilities. We evaluate our estimates on an ongoing basis, including those related to premium recognition, insurance and other reserves, reinsurance recoverables, investment valuations, intangible assets, bad debts, impairments, income taxes, contingencies, derivatives and litigation. We base our estimates on market prices, where possible, and on various other assumptions we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, which form the basis for our judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.. We believe that our earliest accident years are capable of providing us with meaningful actuarial indications. Estimates and judgments for new (re)insurance lines of business are more difficult to make than those made for more mature lines of business because we have more limited historical information through December 31, 2017. A significant part of our current loss reserves is in respect of incurred but not reported (\"IBNR\") reserves. This IBNR reserve is based almost entirely on estimates involving actuarial and statistical projections of our expectations of the ultimate settlement and administration costs. In addition to limited historical information for certain lines of business, we utilize actuarial models as well as historical insurance industry loss development patterns to establish loss reserves. Accordingly, actual claims and claim expenses paid may deviate, perhaps substantially, from the reserve estimates reflected in our financial statements, which could materially adversely affect our financial results.. If actual renewals of our existing policies and contracts do not meet expectations, our gross written premiums in future fiscal periods and our future operating results could be materially adversely affected.. A majority of our insurance policies and reinsurance contracts are for a one-year term. We make assumptions about the renewal rate and pricing of our prior year's policies and contracts in our financial forecasting process. If actual renewals do not meet expectations, our gross written premiums in future fiscal periods and our future operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. For Aspen Re, this risk is especially prevalent in the first quarter of each year when a large number of annual reinsurance contracts are subject to renewal.. Cyber threats are an evolving risk area affecting not only the specific cyber insurance we provide but also the liability coverage we provide.. We have introduced processes to manage our potential liabilities as a result of specific cyber coverage and other cover we provide to our (re)insurance clients. However, given that this is an area where the threat landscape is uncertain and continuing to evolve, there is a risk that increases in the frequency and effectiveness of cyber-attacks on our clients could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. This risk is also dependent on the measures our clients use to protect themselves to keep pace with the emerging threat, as well as the development and issuance of policy terms which are reactive to the evolving threat landscape.. Our U.S. excess and surplus lines insurance business is subject to non-standard risks and increased risk from changing market conditions.. Excess and surplus lines insurance forms a substantial portion of the business written by our U.S.-based insurance operations. We also write U.S. excess and surplus lines insurance from the U.K. Excess and surplus lines insurance covers risks that are typically more complex and unusual than standard risks and requires a high degree of specialized underwriting. As a result, excess and surplus lines risks do not often fit the underwriting criteria of standard insurance carriers. Our excess and surplus lines insurance business fills the insurance needs of businesses with unique characteristics and is generally considered higher risk than the standard market. If our underwriting staff inadequately judges and prices the risks associated with the business underwritten in the excess and surplus lines market, our financial results could be adversely impacted.. Further, the excess and surplus lines market is significantly affected by the conditions of the property and casualty insurance market in general. This cyclicality can be more pronounced in the excess and surplus market than in the standard insurance market. During times of hard market conditions (when market conditions are more favorable to insurers because rates increase and coverage terms become more restrictive), business tends to move from the admitted market to the excess and surplus lines market and growth in the excess and surplus market tends to accelerate faster than growth in the standard insurance market. When soft market conditions are prevalent (when market conditions are less favorable to insurers because rates decrease and coverage terms become less restrictive), standard insurance carriers tend to grant more expansive coverage terms and expand market share by moving into business lines traditionally characterized as excess and surplus lines, exacerbating the effect of rate decreases. If we fail to manage the cyclical nature and volatility of the revenues and profit we generate in the excess and surplus lines market, our financial results could be adversely impacted.. 38. Table of Contents. Market and Liquidity Risks. Our financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected by reductions in the aggregate value of our investment portfolio.. Our operating results depend in part on the performance of our investment portfolio. Our funds are invested by several professional investment management firms in accordance with our investment guidelines. Our investment guidelines stress diversification of risks, preservation of capital and provision of liquidity. For more information on our investment guidelines, see \"Business  -  Investments\" under Item 1 above. However, our investments are subject to a variety of financial and capital market risks including, but not limited to, changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, market volatility and risks inherent to particular securities. Prolonged and severe disruptions in the public debt and equity markets, including, among other things, widening of credit spreads, bankruptcies, defaults, and significant ratings downgrades, may cause significant losses in our investment portfolio. Market volatility can make it difficult to value certain securities if their trading becomes infrequent. Depending on market conditions, we could incur substantial additional realized and unrealized investment losses in future periods.. Separately, the occurrence of large claims may force us to liquidate securities at an inopportune time which may cause us to realize capital losses. Large investment losses could decrease our asset base and thereby affect our ability to underwrite new business. Additionally, such losses could have a material adverse impact on our shareholders' equity, business and financial strength and debt ratings. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2017, our net invested assets generated income of $294.7 million before tax.. The aggregate performance of our investment portfolio also depends to a significant extent on the ability of our investment managers to select and manage appropriate investments. As a result, we are also exposed to operational risks which may include, but are not limited to, a failure of our investment managers to perform their services in a manner consistent with our investment guidelines, technological and staffing deficiencies, inadequate disaster recovery plans, interruptions to business operations due to impaired performance or failure or inaccessibility of information or IT systems. The result of any of these operational risks could adversely affect our investment portfolio, financial performance and ability to conduct our business.. Our results of operations and investment portfolio may be materially affected by conditions impacting the level of interest rates in the global capital markets and major economies, such as central bank policies on interest rates and the rate of inflation.. As a global insurance and reinsurance company, we are affected by the monetary policies of the Bank of England, the European Central Bank, the U.S. Federal Reserve Board and other central banks around the world. Since the Financial Crisis of 2007 and 2008 these central banks have taken a number of actions to spur economic activity such as keeping interest rates low and enacting Quantitative Easing. Unconventional monetary policy from the major central banks and moderate global economic growth remain key uncertainties for markets and our business. In December 2015 The U.S. Federal Reserve raised the Federal Funds Rate for the first time since the Financial Crisis, effectively embarking on a tightening cycle to normalize interest rates which have risen 1.25% from 2015 to 2017. In September 2017 The Federal Reserve announced it will begin to reduce the size of its balance sheet effectively beginning a reversal of Quantitative Easing to normalize the balance sheet whilst maintaining its tightening cycle bias. Other central banks have expressed their intention to pare back unprecedented monetary stimulus by normalizing both their policy rates and balance sheets as economic growth improves. Such actions may have a material impact on the pricing levels of our fixed-income investments.. Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the market price and cash flow variability of fixed income instruments that are associated with changes in interest rates. Our investment portfolio contains interest rate sensitive instruments, such as fixed income securities which have been, and will likely continue to be, affected by changes in interest rates from central bank monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions, levels of inflation and other factors beyond our control.. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, inflation, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. For example, inflation could lead to higher interest rates causing the current unrealized gain position in our fixed maturity portfolio to decrease. As a result of the interest rate environment, we have diversified our investment portfolio by investing in equities and emerging market debt to enhance the returns on our investment portfolio. However, these assets are riskier in nature and could adversely impact our investment portfolio.. Interest rate fluctuations could also have an adverse effect on our mortgage reinsurance business. In both the U.S. and international mortgage markets, rising interest rates, among other factors, generally reduce the volume of new mortgage originations. A decline in the volume of new mortgage originations would have an adverse effect on our new mortgage reinsurance written. Conversely,. 39. Table of Contents. declining interest rates historically have increased the rate at which borrowers refinance their existing mortgages, thereby resulting in cancellations of the mortgage insurance covering the refinanced loans, potentially having an adverse effect on the volume of mortgage insurance underlying our reinsurance, our levels of premium and any growth in such business.. Steps that may be taken by central banks to raise interest rates in the future to combat higher inflation than we had anticipated could, in turn, lead to an increase in our loss costs. Changes in the level of inflation also result in an increased level of uncertainty in our estimation of loss reserves for our long-tail lines of business. As a result of the above factors, our business, financial condition, liquidity or operating results could be adversely affected.. Unexpected volatility or illiquidity associated with some of our investments could significantly and negatively affect our financial results, liquidity and ability to conduct business.. We hold, or may in the future purchase, certain investments such as publicly traded equities, high yield bonds, bank loans, emerging market debt, non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities, commercial mortgage-backed securities and real estate funds. During the height of the financial crisis, both fixed income and equity markets were more illiquid and volatile than expected. If we require significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of normal cash requirements, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner and/or be forced to sell them for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize. If we are forced to sell our assets in unfavorable market conditions, there can be no assurance that we will be able to sell them for the prices at which we have recorded them and we may be forced to sell them at significantly lower prices. As a result of the above factors, our business, financial condition, liquidity or operating results could be adversely affected.. Volatility and uncertainty in general economic conditions and in financial, commodity and mortgage markets could adversely impact our business prospects, operating results, financial position and liquidity.. In recent years, global financial markets have been characterized by volatility and uncertainty. Unfavorable economic conditions could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or make credit harder to obtain. Uncertainties in the financial and commodity markets may also affect our counterparties which could adversely affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. For example, a significant portion of the business sourced by Crop Re Services LLC (\"Crop Re\"), our newly formed partnership with CGB DS, provides revenue protection to farmers for their expected crop revenues which can be affected by changes in crop prices. Significant losses to our agriculture classes of business could be incurred in the event of a decline in agricultural commodity prices prior to harvest which could, in turn, affect our financial condition or operating results.. Deterioration or volatility in the financial markets or general economic and political conditions could result in a prolonged economic downturn or trigger another recession and our operating results, financial position and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. Further, unfavorable economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on certain of the lines of business we write, including, but not limited to, credit and political risks, professional liability and surety risks.. We provide credit reinsurance to mortgage guaranty insurers and commercial credit insurers. We are exposed to the risk that losses from mortgage insurance materially exceed the net premiums that are received to cover such risks, which may, subject to liability caps,  result in operating and economic losses to us. Mortgage insurance underwriting losses that have the potential to exceed our risk appetite are associated with the systemic impacts of severe mortgage defaults, driven by large scale economic downturns and high unemployment. As of December 31, 2017, the majority of our exposure to mortgage-related underwriting risks was in the United States, with a smaller amount of exposure in Australia.. A downgrade of U.S. or non-U.S. government securities by credit rating agencies could adversely impact the value of such securities in our investment portfolio and create uncertainty in the market generally.. A downgrade of U.S. or non-U.S. government securities by credit rating agencies has the potential to adversely impact the value of our investment portfolio and may cause the average credit rating of our investment portfolio to fall and create greater volatility in the prices of our other investments. In addition, a downgrade in the rating of U.S. or non-U.S. government securities may have an adverse impact on fixed income markets or have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results.. The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments taken on our investments is highly subjective and could materially impact our operating results or financial position.. We perform reviews of our investments on a quarterly basis to determine whether declines in fair value below the cost basis are considered other-than-temporary impairments in accordance with applicable accounting guidance regarding the recognition and presentation of other-than-temporary impairments. The process of determining whether a security is other-than-temporarily impaired requires judgment and involves analyzing many factors. For additional information regarding this process, see Note 2(c) of our consolidated financial statements, \"Basis of Preparation and Significant Accounting Policies  - Accounting for Investments,. 40. Table of Contents. Cash and Cash Equivalents.\" Assessing the accuracy of the level of impairments taken, and allowances reflected, in our financial statements is inherently uncertain given the subjective nature of the process. Furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken or allowances provided in the future with respect to events that may impact specific investments. While historically our other-than-temporary impairments have not been material, historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments or allowances.. Our investment portfolio may be materially adversely affected by global climate change regulation and other factors.. World leaders met at the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference in December 2015 in Paris and agreed to limit global greenhouse gas emissions in the atmosphere to a level which would not increase the average global temperature by more than 2° Celsius, with an aspiration of limiting such increase to 1.5° Celsius (the \"Paris Agreement\"). In order for governments to achieve their existing and future international commitments to limit the concentration of greenhouse gases under the Paris Agreement, there is widespread consensus in the scientific community that a significant percentage of existing proven fossil fuel reserves may not be consumed. In addition, divestment campaigns, which call on asset owners to divest from direct ownership of commingled funds that include fossil fuel equities and bonds, likewise signals a change in society's attitude towards the social and environmental externalities of doing business.. The U.S. Government nevertheless indicated that it would cease participating in the Paris Agreement on June 1, 2017, which may create further uncertainty regarding investment and valuation for both the fossil fuel and renewable sectors.  In accordance with the Paris Agreement, the earliest possible effective withdrawal date by the United States from the Paris Agreement cannot be before November 4, 2020.. As a result of the above, energy companies and other companies engaged in the production or storage of fossil fuels may experience unexpected or premature devaluations or write-offs of their fossil fuel reserves. As at December 31, 2017, we had $251.5 million, or 3.00% of our Managed Portfolio, invested in the energy sector. Government policies to slow global climate change by, for example, setting limits on carbon emissions may also have an adverse impact on other sectors, such as utilities, transportation and manufacturing. A material change in the asset value of fossil fuels or the securities of energy companies and companies in these other sectors may therefore materially adversely affect our investment portfolio and our results of operations and financial condition.. Our financial condition or operating results may be adversely affected by currency fluctuations.. A significant portion of our operations is conducted outside the United States. Accordingly, we are subject to legal, economic and market risks associated with operating in countries throughout the world, including devaluations and fluctuations in currency exchange rates, imposition or increase of investment and other restrictions by foreign governments; and the requirement of complying with a wide variety of laws.. We report our operating results and financial condition in U.S. Dollars. Outside the United States, we predominantly generate revenue and expenses in the local currency. Our U.S. operations earn revenue and incur expenses primarily in U.S. dollars. In our London market operations, we earn revenue in a number of different currencies, but expenses are almost entirely incurred in the British Pound. In addition to the U.S. Dollar and the British Pound, our functional currencies are the Euro, the Swiss Franc, the Australian Dollar, the Canadian Dollar and the Singapore Dollar. The table below gives an approximate analysis of gross written premiums and general, administrative and corporate expenses by currency for the year ended December 31, 2017.. U.S. Dollars     GBP     Other     Gross Written Premiums 73.7 %   9.0 %   17.3 %   General, Administrative and Corporate Expenses 67.4 %   25.4 %   7.2 %. During the course of 2017, the U.S. Dollar/British Pound exchange rate, our most significant exchange rate exposure, fluctuated from a high of £1:$1.3513 to a low of £1:$1.2047. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2017, 17.3% of our gross premiums were written in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar and the British Pound (2016  -  12.0%). Further, a portion of our loss reserves and investments are also in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar and the British Pound. We may, from time to time, experience losses resulting from fluctuations in the values of these non-U.S./non-British currencies which could adversely affect our results.. As a result of devaluations and fluctuations in currency exchange rates or the imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into U.S. Dollars, we are subject to currency translation exposure on the profits of our operations, in addition to economic exposure. Furthermore, the mismatch between the British Pound revenues and expenses, together with any net British Pound. 41. Table of Contents. balance sheet position we hold in our London market operations creates a currency exchange exposure. Through our underwriting of credit and political risk, we are also exposed to the risk of paying claims in the event that a host government imposes a moratorium on the remittance overseas of foreign currency payments.. Following the U.K's decision to withdraw from the E.U., as further described under \"The United Kingdom's decision to withdraw from the E.U. could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition\", the value of the British Pound significantly weakened as compared to the U.S. Dollar. While the British Pound strengthened during 2017, it has not returned to the levels experienced before the U.K.'s vote. As a result, the U.S. Dollars required to be translated into British Pounds to cover our net sterling expenses decreased, which has caused our results to be slightly positively impacted. However, the net British Pound assets we hold became less valuable when translated into U.S. Dollars. This risk could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flow and results of operations in the future if the British Pound weakens.. From time to time we may hedge part of our operating exposure to exchange rate movements but such mitigating attempts may not be successful. We may use forward exchange contracts to manage some of our foreign currency exposure. However, it is possible that we will not successfully structure those contracts so as to effectively manage these risks, which could adversely affect our operating results.. Credit Risks. Our operating results may be adversely affected by the failure of policyholders, brokers or other intermediaries to honor their payment obligations.. In accordance with industry practice, we generally pay amounts owed on claims under our insurance and reinsurance contracts to brokers and these brokers, in turn, pay these amounts to the clients that purchased insurance and reinsurance from us. In some jurisdictions where we write a significant amount of business, if a broker fails to make such a payment it is highly likely that we will be liable to the client for the deficiency because of local laws or contractual obligations. Likewise, when the client pays premiums for policies to brokers for payment to us, these premiums are generally considered to have been paid and, in most cases, the client will no longer be liable to us for those amounts whether or not we have actually received the premiums. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with brokers with respect to most of our (re)insurance business.. In addition, bankruptcy, liquidity problems, distressed financial conditions or the general effects of economic recession may increase the risk that policyholders may not pay a part of, or the full amount of, premiums owed to us despite an obligation to do so. The terms of our contracts or local law may not permit us to cancel our insurance even if we have not received payment. If non-payment becomes widespread, whether as a result of bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational failure or other events, it could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results.. Our financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected by the failure of one or more reinsurers or capital market counterparties to meet their payment obligations.. We purchase reinsurance for our own account in order to mitigate the effect of certain large and multiple losses upon our financial condition. Our reinsurers or capital market counterparts are dependent on their ratings in order to continue to write business and some have suffered downgrades in ratings in the past as a result of their exposures. Our reinsurers or capital market counterparties may also be affected by adverse developments in the financial markets, which could adversely affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. Insolvency of these counterparties, their inability to continue to write business or reluctance to make timely payments under the terms of their agreements with us could have a material adverse effect on us because we remain liable to our insureds or cedants in respect of the reinsured risks.. Our liquidity and counterparty risk exposures may be adversely affected by the impairment of financial institutions.. We routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and other institutions. We are exposed to the risk that these counterparties are unable to make payments or provide collateral to a third party when required, or that securities that we own are required to be sold at a loss in order to meet liquidity, collateral or other payment requirements. In addition, our investments in various fixed income securities issued by financial institutions exposes us to credit risk in the event of default by these issuers. With respect to derivatives transactions that require exchange of collateral, due to mark to market movements, our risk may be exacerbated in the event of default by a counterparty. In such an event, we may not receive the collateral due to us from the defaulted counterparty. Any such losses could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.. 42. Table of Contents. Strategic Risks. Our operating effectiveness and efficiency initiative aimed at optimizing our business processes is subject to execution risk, may subject our business to other risks and may not realize the intended benefits.. We have launched, and plan to continue to implement, our program to enhance operating effectiveness and efficiency and to enhance our market position (the \"Effectiveness and Efficiency Program\"). For more information, see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   -  Aspen's Year in Review.\" The Effectiveness and Efficiency Program presents potential uncertainties and risks that may impact our ability to achieve anticipated operating enhancements and/or cost reductions, or otherwise impact our business including:. • our ability to successfully develop and execute the Effectiveness and Efficiency Program to create operating and cost efficiencies through focus on improving several operational levers;. • charges relating to the Effectiveness and Efficiency Program being different from those initially estimated, including changes in the size and components of different aspects;. • changes in the planned timing of the Effectiveness and Efficiency Program;. • the results and timing of employee consultation processes and related regulations in certain jurisdictions where we operate;. • disruption in our business associated with the Effectiveness and Efficiency Program and related activities;. • disruption to our internal control environment;. • whether the Effectiveness and Efficiency Program provides a sufficient return on our capital expenditure investment over time; and. • whether new IT and data tools enable intended results.. In addition, as part of the Effectiveness and Efficiency Program we may reduce employee headcount and these actions may adversely disrupt operating activities, may negatively affect employee morale and loyalty and may make it more difficult to retain or rehire key personnel. Additionally, a lower headcount may result in a decrease in gross written premiums across particular insurance and reinsurance lines due to lower production in our accounts.. If we are not successful in developing and executing the Effectiveness and Efficiency Program, we may not be able to achieve targeted expense savings within the expected time frame, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our failure to achieve targeted operating enhancements and/or cost reductions could also result in the implementation of additional restructuring related activities, which may be dilutive to our earnings in the short term.. We operate in a highly competitive environment and substantial new capital inflows into the (re)insurance industry may increase competition.. Insurance and reinsurance markets are highly competitive. We continue to experience increased competition in a number of lines of business which has caused a decline in rate increases or a reduction in rates in such lines. We compete with existing international and regional (re)insurers some of which have greater financial, marketing and management resources than us. We also compete with new market entrants and alternative capital markets, funds and other providers of insurance and alternative reinsurance products such as insurance-linked securities, catastrophe bonds and derivatives. In recent years, hedge funds, pension funds, endowments and investment banks have been increasingly active in the reinsurance market and markets for related risks. Further, we believe new entrants or existing competitors may attempt to replicate all or part of our business model and provide further competition in the markets in which we participate. We generally expect increased competition from a wider range of entrants over time. We have already seen that such new or alternative capital causes reductions in prices of our products and reduces the duration or amplitude of attractive portions of the historical market cycles. See \"Business  -  Competition\" under Item 1 above for a discussion of our competitors. Recently, insureds have retained a greater proportion of their risk portfolios than previously, and industrial and commercial companies have increasingly relied on their own subsidiary insurance companies and other mechanisms for funding their risks rather than via risk transferring insurance. We have sought to address this risk by developing our own capital markets capability but there is no guarantee it will succeed.. Increased competition could result in fewer submissions, lower premium rates, less favorable policy terms and conditions and greater expenses relating to customer acquisition and retention, which could have a material adverse impact on our operating results or financial condition.. Our Operating Subsidiaries are rated and our Lloyd's business benefits from a rating by one or more of A.M. Best, S&P and Moody's and a decline in any of these ratings could adversely affect our standing among brokers and customers and cause our premiums and earnings to decrease and limit our ability to pay dividends on our ordinary shares.. Ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance and reinsurance companies. Rating agencies represent independent opinions of the financial strength of insurers and reinsurers and their ability to meet policyholder obligations. These ratings are not an evaluation directed toward the protection of investors or a recommendation. 43. Table of Contents. to buy, sell or hold our ordinary shares. The ratings of our Operating Subsidiaries are subject to periodic review by, and may be placed on credit watch, revised downward or revoked at the sole discretion of, A.M. Best, Moody's or S&P.. On January 26, 2018, S&P affirmed the ratings of our Operating Subsidiaries but changed their outlook to negative from stable. S&P stated that the negative outlook indicates the possibility that they may decrease the ratings of our Operating Subsidiaries by one level if we do not improve our underwriting results to contribute to capital and reduce leverage over the next two years. On February 6, 2018, Moody's affirmed the ratings of our Operating Subsidiaries but changed their outlook to negative from stable due to the decline in shareholder's equity as a result of underwriting losses in the second half of 2017, pressure on financial flexibility as evidenced by rising financial leverage and weakening earnings coverage and declining profitability. Moody's noted that the risks for us are weighted towards the downside and indicated that further downward pressure on Aspen's underwriting profitability or capital position through the first-half of 2018 would likely result in negative action sooner than 12 months.. If our Operating Subsidiaries' or Lloyd's ratings are reduced from their current levels by any of A.M. Best, Moody's or S&P, our competitive position in the insurance industry might suffer and it may be more difficult for us to market our products, expand our (re)insurance portfolio and renew our existing (re)insurance policies and agreements. A rating downgrade may also require us to establish trusts or post letters of credit for ceding company clients and could trigger provisions allowing some clients to terminate their (re)insurance contracts with us. Some contracts also provide for the return of premium to the ceding client in the event of a rating downgrade. It is increasingly common for our reinsurance contracts to contain such terms. Whether a cedant would exercise any of these rights could depend on various factors, such as the reason for and the extent of such downgrade, the prevailing market conditions and the pricing and availability of replacement reinsurance coverage. A downgrade could result in a substantial loss of business as ceding companies and brokers that place such business move to other reinsurers with higher ratings and therefore such downgrade may materially and adversely impact our business, operating results, liquidity and financial flexibility.. In addition, a downgrade of the financial strength rating of Aspen U.K., Aspen Bermuda or Aspen Specialty by A.M. Best below \"B++\" would constitute an event of default under our revolving credit facility with Barclays Bank PLC and other lenders. Additionally, the cost and availability of unsecured financing are generally dependent on the borrower's long-term and short-term debt ratings. A lower rating may lead to higher borrowing costs, thereby adversely impacting our liquidity and financial flexibility.. Any future acquisitions, growth of our operations through the addition of new lines of (re)insurance business, expansion into new geographic regions and/or joint ventures or partnerships may expose us to risks.. As part of our long-term strategy, we have pursued, and may continue to pursue, growth through acquisitions and/or strategic investments in new businesses. We also may decide to sell businesses or enter into strategic ventures with third parties. Further, we may engage in confidential acquisition negotiations that are not publicly announced unless and until those negotiations result in a definitive agreement. Such negotiations would likely require management and key personnel to expend considerable time and effort on the negotiations, which may detract from their ability to run our core business. In addition, an acquisition can be expensive and time consuming. Although considerable funds may be expended in the negotiations phase, an acquisition or disposition may ultimately not be completed for a variety of reasons.. We have limited experience in identifying quality merger or acquisition candidates, as well as successfully acquiring and integrating their operations. Successful integration will depend, among other things, on our ability to effectively integrate acquired businesses or new personnel into our existing risk management techniques, manage any regulatory issues created by our entry into new markets and geographic locations, retain key personnel and obtain personnel required for expanded operations. The failure to integrate successfully or to manage the challenges presented by the integration process may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results.. Consolidation in the (re)insurance industry could adversely impact our business and results of operations.. Continued consolidation in the (re)insurance industry could lead consolidated entities to try to use their enhanced market power to negotiate price reductions for our products and services and/or obtain a larger market share through increased line sizes. If competitive pressures reduce our prices, we would expect to write less business on a gross written premium basis. As the (re)insurance industry consolidates, competition for customers will become more intense and the importance of acquiring and properly servicing each customer will become greater. We could incur greater expenses relating to customer acquisition and retention, further reducing our operating margins. The resulting change in the competitive landscape may also impact our ability to attract the most talented insurance professionals and retain and incentivize existing employees. In addition, insurance companies that merge may be able to spread their risks across a consolidated, larger capital base so that they require less reinsurance.. If our competitors join this trend of consolidation, we could also experience more robust competition from larger, better capitalized competitors. The effect of such consolidation and possible increased scale of our competitors may mean that we experience increased pressure on rates, with the prospect that we may choose to write less business at unfavorable rates as a result. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, strategy or our results of operations.. 44. Table of Contents. We depend on a few brokers for a large portion of our insurance and reinsurance revenues and the loss of business provided by any one of those brokers could adversely affect us.. We market our insurance and reinsurance products worldwide primarily through insurance and reinsurance brokers. See Item 1 above, \"Business  -  Business Distribution\" for our principal brokers by segment. Several of these brokers also have, or may in the future acquire, ownership interests in (re)insurance companies that compete with us, and these brokers may favor their own (re)insurers over other companies. The failure or inability of brokers to market our (re)insurance products successfully or the loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided by one or more of these brokers could have a material adverse effect on our business.. In addition, there has been a trend of increased consolidation of agents and brokers. As we distribute most of our products through agents and brokers, consolidation could impact our ability to access business and our relationships with, and fees paid to, agents and brokers. In the Lloyds's market, independent London wholesalers continue to be acquired by larger global brokers, which may result in enhanced market power for these larger brokers in placing (re)insurance. Consolidation of distributors may also increase the likelihood that distributors will try to renegotiate the terms of existing selling agreements to terms less favorable to us. As brokers merge with or acquire each other, any resulting failure or inability of brokers to market our products successfully, or the loss of a substantial portion of the business sourced by one or more of our key brokers, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Our efforts to expand in targeted markets or develop products may not be successful and may create increased risks.. A number of our planned business initiatives involve expanding existing products in targeted markets or developing new products. For example, Aspen Advisors is registered as an investment adviser with the SEC and advises on insurance-linked securities. Through Aspen Capital Markets, our alternative reinsurance division, we have also expanded our participation in the alternative reinsurance market through collateralized reinsurance arrangements. To develop new markets and products, we may need to make substantial capital and operating expenditures, which may adversely affect our results in the near term. In addition, the demand for new markets or products may not meet our expectations. To the extent we are able to expand in new markets or market new products, our risk exposures may change and the data and models we use to manage such exposures may not be as sophisticated as those we use in existing markets or with existing products. This, in turn, could lead to losses in excess of expectations.. We are exposed to risks in connection with our management of alternative reinsurance platforms on behalf of investors in Peregrine, Silverton and in any other entities Aspen Capital Markets manages or could manage in the future.. Those of our subsidiaries engaged in the management of alternative reinsurance platforms as part of our Aspen Capital Markets division may owe certain legal duties and obligations to third party investors (including reporting obligations) and are subject to a variety of often complex laws and regulations relating to the management of those structures. Although we continually monitor our policies and procedures to ensure compliance, faulty judgments, simple errors or mistakes, or the failure of our personnel to adhere to established policies and procedures could result in our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations which could result in significant liabilities, penalties or other losses and significantly harm our business and results of operations.. In addition, our third party investors may decide not to renew their interests in the entities we manage which could materially impact the financial condition of such entities. Certain of our third party capital investors provide significant capital investment in respect of the entities we manage. The loss or alteration of this capital support could be detrimental to our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, we can provide no assurance that we may be able to attract and raise additional third party capital for our existing managed entities or for potential new managed entities and therefore we may forego existing and/or potential attractive fee income and other income-generating opportunities.. Furthermore, notwithstanding any capital holdback, we may decide to return to our investors all or a portion of the third party capital held by entities we manage as collateral prior to the maturity specified in the terms of the particular underlying transactional documents. A return of capital to our investors is final. As a result, if we release collateral early and capital is returned to our investors, we may not have sufficient collateral to pay the claims associated with such losses in the event losses are significantly larger than we anticipated.. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available or may only be available on unfavorable terms.. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to write new business successfully, deploy capital into more profitable business lines, identify acquisition opportunities, manage investments and preserve capital in volatile markets, and establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses. Our operations are subject to significant volatility in capital due to our exposure to potentially significant catastrophic events. We monitor our capital adequacy on an ongoing basis. To the extent our funds are insufficient to fund future operating requirements or cover claims losses, we may need to raise additional funds through corporate finance transactions or curtail our growth and reduce our liabilities. Any equity, hybrid or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. In the case of equity financings, dilution to our shareholders could. 45. Table of Contents. result and, such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our outstanding securities. Our ability to raise such capital successfully would depend upon the facts and circumstances at the time, including our financial position and operating results, market conditions and applicable regulatory filings and legal issues. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected.. Our debt, credit and International Swap Dealers Association (\"ISDA\") agreements may limit our financial and operational flexibility, which may affect our financial condition, liquidity and ability to conduct our business.. We have incurred indebtedness and may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Additionally, we have entered into credit facilities with various institutions which provide revolving lines of credit to us and our Operating Subsidiaries and issue letters of credit to our clients in the ordinary course of business. We have also entered into ISDA agreements relating to derivative transactions. The agreements relating to our debt, credit facilities and our ISDA agreements contain covenants that may limit our ability, among other things, to borrow money, make particular types of investments or other restricted payments, sell assets, merge or consolidate. Some of these agreements also require us to maintain specified ratings and financial ratios, including a minimum net worth covenant. If we fail to comply with these covenants or meet required financial ratios, the lenders or counterparties under these agreements could declare a default and demand immediate repayment of all amounts owed to them. As a result, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected.. If we are in default under the terms of these agreements, we may also be restricted in our ability to declare or pay any dividends, redeem, purchase or acquire any shares or make a liquidation payment and are at risk of cross-default on other arrangements. In addition, the cost and availability of these arrangements vary and any adverse change in the cost or availability of such arrangements could adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results.. Regulatory Risks. The regulatory systems under which we operate and potential changes thereto could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our activities are subject to extensive regulation under the laws and regulations of the U.S., U.K., Bermuda and the E.U. and its member states and the other jurisdictions in which we operate. Our Operating Subsidiaries may not be able to maintain necessary licenses, permits, authorizations or accreditations in territories where we currently engage in business or obtain them in new territories, or may be able to do so only at significant cost. In addition, we may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain appropriate exemptions from, the wide variety of laws and regulations applicable to insurance or reinsurance companies or holding companies. In addition to insurance and financial industry regulations, our activities are also subject to relevant economic and trade sanctions, money laundering regulations, and anti-corruption laws including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act 2010, which may increase the costs of regulatory compliance, limit or restrict our ability to do business or engage in certain regulated activities, or subject us to the possibility of regulatory actions, proceedings and fines. Although we have in place systems and controls designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we, our employees, or our agents acting on our behalf are in full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations or their interpretation by the relevant authorities and given the complex nature of the risks, it may not always be possible for us to ascertain compliance with such laws and regulations. Failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate authorizations and/or exemptions under any applicable laws or regulations, including those referred to above, could subject us to investigations, criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, loss of an operating license, reputational consequences, and other sanctions, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Changes in the laws or regulations to which our Operating Subsidiaries are subject could also have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, in most jurisdictions, government regulatory authorities have the power to interpret or amend applicable laws and regulations, and have discretion to grant, renew or revoke licenses and approvals we need to conduct our activities. Such authorities may require us to incur substantial costs in order to comply with such laws and regulations. See \"Business  -  Regulatory Matters\" in Item 1 above for more information.. The insurance and reinsurance industries are subject to political, regulatory and legislative initiatives or proposals from time to time which could adversely affect our business.. Governments and regulatory bodies may take unpredictable action to ensure continued supply of insurance, particularly where a given event leads to withdrawal of capacity from the market. For example, regulators may seek to force us to offer certain covers to (re)insureds, constrain our flexibility to apply certain terms and conditions or constrain our ability to make changes to the pricing of our contracts. There can be no assurance as to the effect that any such governmental or regulatory actions will have on the financial markets generally or on our competitive position, business and financial condition.. The terms of the U.S. Federal Multi-Peril Crop Insurance Program (the \"MPCI\"), which is sponsored by the Risk Management Agency of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (the \"RMA\"), may change and adversely impact us. The Agricultural Act of 2014, also known as the 2014 U.S. Farm Bill, was signed into law in February 2014 and fixes the terms of the MPCI through February. 46. Table of Contents. 2019. The RMA periodically reviews and proposes changes to the Standard Reinsurance Agreement (\"SRA\") used in connection with the MPCI. Given that agriculture insurance premiums driven by the MPCI represent a large portion of the business produced by the combined portfolios of AgriLogic and CGBIC, such changes to the SRA could impact MPCI risk and profitability, and, in turn, adversely affect our financial results through our crop reinsurance business.. Further, recent political initiatives to restrict free trade and close markets, such as the U.K.'s decision to withdraw from the E.U. (\"Brexit\") and the Trump administration's decision to withdraw from the Trans-Pacific partnership, could adversely affect the reinsurance industry and, in turn, our business. The reinsurance industry is disproportionately impacted by restraints on the free flow of capital and risk because the value it provides depends on our ability to globally diversify risk. Increasing barriers to free trade and the free flow of capital could adversely affect our business strategy or results of operations.. Changes in regulations that adversely affect the U.S. mortgage insurance and reinsurance market could affect our operations significantly and could reduce the demand for mortgage insurance.. In addition to the general regulatory risks that are described herein, the reinsurance we write could also be indirectly affected by various additional regulations relating particularly to our U.S. mortgage reinsurance operations. U.S. federal and state regulations affect the scope of operations of mortgage guaranty insurers and commercial credit insurers, to whom we provide credit reinsurance. Legislative and regulatory changes could cause demand for private mortgage insurance to decrease, which could have an adverse impact on our U.S. mortgage reinsurance operations. Increases in the maximum loan amount that the U.S. Federal Housing Administration can insure, and reductions in the mortgage insurance premiums it charges, can reduce the demand for private mortgage insurance. Decreases in the maximum loan amounts government-sponsored enterprises, such as the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac) (the \"GSEs\"), will purchase or guarantee, increases in GSE fees, or decreases in the maximum loan-to-value ratio for loans the GSEs will purchase, can also reduce demand for private mortgage insurance. Changes in these laws or regulations could have an indirect adverse impact on the profitability of our U.S. mortgage reinsurance business.. Material changes in voting rights and related party transactions may require regulatory approval or oversight by insurance regulators.. Insurance regulators, such as the PRA, the FCA and the BMA, impose certain requirements on operating entities they regulate including notification of shareholders, whether directly or indirectly, reaching certain levels of ownership. Prior approval of ownership and transfer of shares by the regulators may be required under certain circumstances. For example, if any entity were to hold 20% or more of the voting rights or 20% or more of the issued ordinary shares of Aspen Holdings, transactions between Aspen U.K. and such entity may have to be reported to the PRA if the value of those transactions exceeds certain threshold amounts that would render them material connected party transactions. In these circumstances, we can give no assurance that these material connected party transactions will not be subject to regulatory intervention by the PRA or other insurance regulators. See \"Business  -  Regulatory Matters\" in Item 1 above for more information.. Any transactions between companies within the Aspen Group that are material related party transactions also have to be reported to certain insurance regulators. We can give no assurance that the existence or effect of such related party transactions and the insurance regulator's assessment of the overall solvency of Aspen Holdings and its subsidiaries, even in circumstances where the Operating Subsidiary has sufficient assets of its own to cover its required margin of solvency, would not result in regulatory intervention by the insurance regulators with regard to such Operating Subsidiary.. One or more of our insurance subsidiaries may be required by its regulator to hold additional capital to meet relevant solvency requirements.. Any of our Operating Subsidiaries may be required to hold additional capital in order to meet solvency requirements. Among other matters, Bermuda statutes, regulations and policies of the BMA require Aspen Bermuda to maintain minimum levels of statutory capital, surplus and liquidity to meet solvency standards. The BMA has a risk-based capital adequacy model called the BSCR to assist the BMA both in measuring risk and in determining appropriate levels of capitalization for Aspen Bermuda and the Aspen Group (under the Group Supervision Regime). Further, the BMA requires Class 4 commercial insurers and insurance groups to perform an assessment of their own risk and solvency requirements. The Commercial Insurers / Group Solvency Self-Assessment have the insurer/insurance group determine the capital resources required to achieve its strategic goals, after assessing all reasonably foreseeable material risks arising from its operations or operational environment. These statutes and regulations may restrict our ability to write insurance and reinsurance policies, make certain investments and distribute funds. See \"Business  -  Regulatory Matters  -  Bermuda Regulation  -  Group Solvency Margin and Group Enhanced Capital Requirements\" in Item 1 above for more information.. Similarly, under the Solvency II regime, Aspen European and Aspen U.K. are required to provide the PRA with calculations of their solvency position. If they do not meet the solvency requirements this could trigger regulatory intervention by the PRA.. 47. Table of Contents. Our Syndicate 4711 is also required to provide Lloyd's with a calculation of the capital requirement for the next year's syndicate business plan. Lloyd's review that calculation and can require additional Funds at Lloyd's to be lodged if they determine that there are issues with such calculation. See \"Business  -  Regulatory Matters  -  U.K. and E.U. Regulation  -  Solvency Requirements\" in Item 1 above for more information on our solvency requirements.. The unregulated parent company of Aspen U.K. may be affected by the FCA, the PRA and the Bank of England.. The Financial Services Act 2012 created powers for the FCA, the PRA and the Bank of England to impose requirements on U.K. parent companies of certain regulated firms, as referenced in \"Business  -  Regulatory Matters\" in Item 1 above. The powers allow the regulators to: (i) direct qualifying parent undertakings to comply with specific requirements; (ii) take enforcement action against qualifying parent undertakings if those directions are breached; and (iii) gather information from qualifying parent undertakings. For example, if an authorized firm is in crisis, the powers may allow a regulator to direct a parent company to provide that firm with capital or liquidity necessary to improve the position of the firm. The definition of \"qualifying parent undertakings\" could allow the regulators to exercise these powers against an intermediate U.K. parent company of an insurer that is not at the head of the ownership chain. Aspen European, as intermediate parent company of Aspen U.K., could potentially be subject to these powers and there can be no assurance as to the impact of such powers on our results of operations and/or financial condition.. The E.U. Directive on Solvency II may affect the way in which Aspen U.K. and AMAL manage their businesses.. The E.U. directive known as Solvency II covering the capital adequacy, risk management and regulatory reporting for insurers and reinsurers came into effect on 1 January 2016. Solvency II has established a revised set of E.U.-wide capital requirements, valuation techniques and risk management requirements that replace the minimum requirements in the previous E.U. directives. Solvency II presents a number of risks to regulatory compliance, in particular for Aspen U.K. and AMAL. The Solvency II regime also requires an accelerated quarterly close process across the Group to allow those U.K. entities to meet their regulatory disclosure obligations.. Our approach to compliance is based on our current understanding of the Solvency II requirements and any material changes thereto could have a material adverse effect on our business. Aspen U.K. received approval from the PRA to use an agreed Internal Model to calculate its Solvency Capital Requirement (\"SCR\") for Aspen U.K. and our European sub-group headed by Aspen European as from January 1, 2016. Aspen U.K. is required to ensure that the Internal Model operates properly on a continuous basis and that it continues to comply with the \"Solvency Capital Requirements  -  Internal Models\" provisions as set out in the PRA rulebook and Solvency II Delegated Acts. If Aspen U.K. fails to comply with these requirements, the PRA may impose capital add-ons requiring Aspen U.K. to hold more capital than the regulatory requirement calculated by its Internal Model. Failure to comply could result in the PRA revoking Aspen U.K.'s approval to use its Internal Model which, in turn, would require Aspen U.K. to calculate its regulatory capital in accordance with the PRA's standard formula approach. Implementing the PRA's standard formula approach would likely increase Aspen U.K.'s capital requirement and may adversely impact our operating results and financial conditions.. The European Commission deemed the regulatory regime in Bermuda to be \"equivalent\" to Solvency II with effect from January 1, 2016. With effect from October 12, 2016, Aspen European and Aspen U.K. have been granted a five year waiver from group supervision requirements being applied to the European sub-group due to Aspen Bermuda being subject to equivalent Group supervision.. Although Solvency II is now in force, uncertainty remains as to how the Solvency II regime will be enforced or amended and the effectiveness of the coordination and cooperation of information sharing among supervisory bodies and regulators, such as the PRA, with the BMA as group supervisor or the effect, if any, these developments may have on the Group's operations and financial condition. This uncertainty has increased as a result of the unpredictable consequences of Brexit. The U.K. may seek to agree with the E.U. a process by which its future Solvency II regime can be determined as equivalent with that of the remaining E.U. members in order to limit market disruption in a post-Brexit environment.. The activities of any of our insurance subsidiaries may be subject to review by insurance regulators of differing jurisdictions which may impose greater burdens than anticipated.. The activities of our Operating Subsidiaries may be subject to review by regulators where different supervisory expectations may exist. For example, Aspen U.K. is authorized to do business in the United Kingdom and has permission to conduct business in Canada, Switzerland, Australia, Singapore, France, Ireland, Germany, all other EEA states and certain Latin American countries. In addition, both Aspen U.K. and AMAL are eligible to write surplus lines business in 50 U.S. States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, as alien surplus lines insurers. We can give no assurance, however, that insurance regulators in the United States, Bermuda or elsewhere will not review the activities of Aspen U.K. and AMAL and assess that they are subject to such jurisdiction's licensing or other requirements. As a result, both were subject to a mandatory 2017 data call under the 2015 TRIA Reauthorization propounded by the U.S. Federal Insurance Office.. 48. Table of Contents. Aspen Bermuda does not maintain a principal office and its personnel do not solicit, advertise, settle claims or conduct other activities that may constitute the transaction of the business of (re)insurance in any jurisdiction in which it is not licensed or otherwise not authorized to engage in such activities. However, inquiries or challenges to Aspen Bermuda's (re)insurance activities may be raised in the future. The offshore insurance and reinsurance regulatory environment has become subject to increased scrutiny in many jurisdictions, including the U.S. at both Federal and state levels. Compliance with any new laws, regulations or settlements impacting offshore insurers or reinsurers, such as Aspen Bermuda, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. In addition, Aspen U.K. and Aspen Bermuda are currently affected by U.S. \"credit for reinsurance\" requirements in connection with their reinsurance of risks of U.S. cedants. In general, alien, non-admitted reinsurers, such as Aspen U.K. and Aspen Bermuda, must currently provide collateral for the benefit of U.S. cedants to secure their reinsurance obligations to such U.S. cedants in order for those cedants to receive financial statement credit for such reinsurance. Aspen U.K. and Aspen Bermuda have each established a multi-beneficiary U.S. trust fund for the benefit of their U.S. cedants so that such cedants satisfy U.S. credit for reinsurance requirements and, unless otherwise subject to reduction, the amount of collateral must equal 100% of the reinsurer's reinsurance obligations. The NAIC adopted an amendment to its credit for insurance model law to provide for reduced collateral in certain circumstances. Many states, including Texas, North Dakota, New York, Florida and California, have adopted these changes. Under these amended laws, if an alien, non-admitted reinsurer satisfies certain requirements, including rating and financial requirements, the approved reinsurer may post collateral in an amount lower than 100% of the reinsurer's obligations and the domestic cedant may take 100% reinsurance credit. Many non-U.S. reinsurers have applied for and received approval for reduced collateral in applicable states. Aspen Bermuda has received approval for reduced collateral in North Dakota, Florida and New York. Texas enacted a reduced credit for reinsurance statute effective January 1, 2018. Aspen Bermuda intends to file an application for reduced collateral in Texas following the adoption of enabling regulations. As a result, Aspen Bermuda could be subject to increased regulatory review by the regulators in such states.. On January 13, 2017, the U.S. federal authorities and their E.U. counterparts announced the successful completion of their negotiations of a covered agreement, and on September 22, 2017, the U.S. and the E.U. signed the covered agreement. In terms of reinsurance, the covered agreement eliminates collateral and local presence requirements for E.U. and U.S. reinsurers operating in each other's markets. In connection with an alien reinsurer's assumption of insurance business from a U.S. cedant, the covered agreement gives the U.S. states five years to remove the existing reinsurance collateral requirements for such alien, non-admitted reinsurers domiciled in the E.U. (such as Aspen U.K.) that meet certain standards. These standards include, among others, minimum capital and risk-based capital, confirmation of financial condition by the reinsurer's domestic regulator and claims payment standards. If the U.S. states do not remove such reinsurance collateral requirements, they will face federal pre-emption determinations.  The Trump administration has also issued a U.S. policy statement providing guidance on implementation which \"encourages\" each state to \"promptly\" adopt credit for reinsurance laws and regulations consistent with the covered agreement, and to implement the required phase-out collateral requirements. For more detail on this covered agreement, see \"Business  -  Regulatory Matters\" in Item 1 above. There is no guarantee, however, that cedants will be willing to accept reduced collateral requirements. In addition, to the extent we require liquid assets to meet certain cash obligations, the collateral requirements of Aspen U.K. and Aspen Bermuda's multi-beneficiary U.S. trust fund could adversely impact our liquidity position.. Changes to the Bermuda regulatory system, including changes to its Group Supervisory regime, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The BMA is our group supervisor and has designated Aspen Bermuda as the designated insurer. As group supervisor, the BMA will (i) assess the Aspen group's compliance with the BMA's solvency rules, (ii) perform ongoing supervisory review and assessment of the Aspen group's financial position and governance systems, (iii) coordinate the gathering and dissemination of relevant or essential information, (iv) convene and conduct supervisory colleges with other supervisory authorities that have regulatory oversight of entities within a group and (v) coordinate any enforcement action that may be taken against any of the members of the Aspen group. We are unable to predict with certainty how these laws, frameworks and/or regulations will be enforced or amended, the form in which any pending or future laws, frameworks and/or regulations could be adopted, the effectiveness of the coordination and cooperation of information sharing among supervisory bodies and regulators, or the effect, if any, these developments would have on our operations and financial condition.. The Council of Lloyd's and the Lloyd's Franchise Board have wide discretionary powers to supervise members of Lloyd's.. The Council of Lloyd's may vary the method by which the capital requirement, or the investment criteria applicable to Funds at Lloyd's, is determined. Variance to the capital requirement determination method might affect the maximum amount of the overall premium income that we are able to underwrite. Variation in both might affect our return on investments. The Lloyd's Franchise Board also has wide discretionary powers in relation to the business of Lloyd's managing agents, such as AMAL, including the requirement for compliance with the franchise performance and underwriting guidelines. The Lloyd's Franchise Board imposes certain restrictions on underwriting or on reinsurance arrangements for any Lloyd's syndicate and changes in these. 49. Table of Contents. requirements imposed on us may have an adverse impact on our ability to underwrite which in turn will have an adverse effect on our financial performance.. Changes in Lloyd's regulation or the Lloyd's market could make Syndicate 4711 less attractive.. Changes in Lloyd's regulation or other developments in the Lloyd's market could make operating Syndicate 4711 less attractive. For example, Lloyd's imposes a number of charges on businesses operating in the Lloyd's market, including annual subscriptions and Central Fund levies for members and policy signing charges. Despite the principle that each member of Lloyd's is only responsible for the proportion of risk written on its behalf, a Central Fund acts as a policyholder's protection fund to make payments where other members have failed to pay valid claims. The Council of Lloyd's may resolve to make payments from the Central Fund for the advancement and protection of members, which could lead to additional or special levies being payable by Syndicate 4711. The bases and amounts of these charges may be varied by Lloyd's and could adversely affect our financial and operating results.. Syndicate 4711 may also be affected by a number of other changes in Lloyd's regulation, such as changes to the process for the release of profits and new member compliance requirements. The ability of Lloyd's syndicates to trade in certain classes of business at current levels may be dependent on the maintenance by Lloyd's of a satisfactory credit rating issued by an accredited rating agency. At present, the financial security of the Lloyd's market is regularly assessed by three independent rating agencies, A.M. Best, S&P and Fitch Ratings. See \"Our Operating Subsidiaries are rated, and our Lloyd's business benefits from a rating by one or more of A.M. Best, S&P and Moody's, and a decline in any of these ratings could adversely affect our standing among brokers and customers and cause our premiums and earnings to decrease and limit our ability to pay dividends on our ordinary shares\" above.. The syndicate capital setting process within AMAL is subject to the PRA rules but is conducted by Lloyd's under its detailed procedures. Lloyd's could request an increase in capital under the PRA rules in similar circumstances as set out in \"Business  -  Regulatory Matters\" in Item 1 above. Lloyd's as whole, including Syndicate 4711, is also subject to the provisions of Solvency II as noted above.. Potential changes to the U.S. regulatory system could have an adverse effect on the business of our U.S. operating companies.. The purpose of the state insurance regulatory statutes is to protect U.S. policyholders, not our shareholders or noteholders. The system of regulation generally administered in the United States by the state insurance departments relates to, among other things, solvency standards, restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments, statutory accounting standards, and the regulation of insurance policies, market conduct and premium rates. Among other matters, these statutes require Aspen Specialty and AAIC to maintain minimum levels of capital, surplus and liquidity and to comply with applicable risk-based capital requirements. Insurance holding company laws and regulations also impose restrictions on the insurer's ability to pay dividends and distributions to its shareholders. Taken together, state regulation of insurer investments, premium rates, capital adequacy and dividend restrictions could potentially restrict the ability of Aspen entities in the U.S. to write new business or distribute assets to Aspen Holdings.. State insurance holding company laws also require prior notice and state insurance department approval of certain transactions between an insurer and any affiliate as well as changes in control of an insurer or its holding company.  Any purchaser of 10% or more of the outstanding voting securities of an insurance company or its holding company is presumed to have acquired control, unless this presumption is rebutted.  Therefore, an investor who intends to acquire 10% or more of our outstanding voting securities may need to comply with these laws and would be required to file applications with the North Dakota and Texas insurance departments for regulatory approvals for such acquisition and obtain prior approvals from such departments.. Recent changes in state insurance laws address a number of standards that affect insurance holding company systems, including corporate governance, group-wide supervision, own risk and solvency assessments, accounting for group-wide risks in risk-based capital calculations and imposition of additional disclosure obligations. New U.S. laws and regulations or changes to existing laws and regulations or the interpretation of these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business or operating results.. In addition, the U.S. Congress has enacted legislation providing a greater role for the federal government in the regulation of insurance. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act established a Federal Insurance Office (\"FIO\") within the U.S. Department of Treasury Department to collect data on the insurance industry, recommend changes to the state system of insurance regulation and pre-empt certain state insurance laws. One permitted area of federal involvement is the negotiation of \"covered agreements\" with foreign jurisdiction which would have the effect of pre-empting state law. For more information on the covered agreement between the U.S. and the E.U., see \"Business  -  Regulatory Matters  -  U.S. Regulation  -  Operations of Aspen U.K. and Aspen Bermuda.\" The Dodd-Frank Act also authorized the creation of the Financial Stability Oversight Council (\"FSOC\"), a financial regulatory organization chaired by the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury. FSOC has determined that certain insurance groups are systemically. 50. Table of Contents. significant and therefore subject to prudential supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve. While we have received no notice from FSOC regarding a proposed determination of systemic importance, additional laws and regulation adopted in the future or changes in existing laws and regulations could impose significant burdens on us, impact the ways in which we conduct our business, increase compliance costs, duplicate state regulation and/or could result in a competitive disadvantage.. Despite the above, President Trump has expressed the goal of dismantling or rolling back the Dodd-Frank Act, which may present regulatory risks to our businesses. On June 8, 2017, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Financial CHOICE Act of 2017, which proposes to amend or repeal various sections of Dodd-Frank. This proposed legislation is now being considered by the U.S. Senate. It is possible that the Financial CHOICE Act of 2017 or another Dodd-Frank \"roll-back\" bill will be introduced in U.S. Congress in 2018. We are not able to predict whether any such proposal to roll back the Dodd-Frank Act would have a material effect on our business operations in the U.S. or elsewhere.. Changes in U.S. state insurance legislation and insurance department regulation may impact liabilities assumed by our business.. Aspen Specialty, AAIC, Aspen U.K. and various affiliates are subject to periodic changes in U.S. state insurance legislation and insurance department regulation which may materially affect the liabilities assumed by the companies in such states. For example, as a result of natural disasters or emergency orders, related regulations may be periodically issued or enacted by individual states. This may impact the cancellation or non-renewal of property policies issued in those states for an extended period of time, increasing the potential liability to us on such extended policies. Failure to adhere to these regulations could result in the imposition of fines, fees, penalties and loss of approval to write business in such states. Further, certain states with catastrophe exposures (e.g., California earthquakes, Florida hurricanes) have opted to establish state-run, state-owned reinsurers that compete with us and therefore reduces the amount of business available to us.. Government authorities seek to more closely monitor and regulate the insurance industry which may adversely affect our business.. The Attorneys General for multiple U.S. states and other insurance regulatory authorities have previously investigated a number of issues and practices within the insurance industry, and in particular insurance brokerage compensation practices. To the extent that state regulation of brokers and intermediaries becomes more onerous, costs of regulatory compliance for Aspen Management, ASIS and Aspen Re America will increase. These investigations of the insurance industry in general, whether involving us specifically or not, together with any legal or regulatory proceedings, related settlements and industry reform or other changes arising therefrom, may materially adversely affect our business and operating results.. The United Kingdom's decision to withdraw from the E.U. could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The formal process of the U.K. leaving the E.U. commenced on March 29, 2017 when the Prime Minister of the U.K. notified the European Council under Article 50 of the Treaty on the European Union (\"Article 50\") of the U.K.'s intention to leave. The U.K. will remain a member state of the E.U. until it negotiates and reaches an agreement in relation to the withdrawal from the E.U. or, if earlier, upon the expiration of a two year period following the Article 50 notification. It is currently unclear what type of agreements will be concluded between the U.K. and the E.U. and if the U.K. will continue to have access to the single market of the E.U. In any case, the U.K. Prime Minister has promised that the U.K. Parliament will have a final vote to ratify the withdrawal agreement that is negotiated with the E.U. It is possible that the withdrawal process may last significantly longer than the two year period envisaged by the Treaty of the European Union.. The uncertainty surrounding the implementation and effect of Brexit, the terms and conditions of such exit, the legal and regulatory framework that would apply to the U.K. and its relationship with the remaining members of the E.U. (including in relation to trade and services) during a withdrawal process and after any Brexit is effected has caused, and is likely to cause, increased economic volatility and market uncertainty globally, in particular volatility of currency exchange rates, interest rates and credit spreads. It has already led, and may continue to lead, to disruptions for the European and global financial markets, such as the decrease in the value of the British Pound and of market values of listed E.U. companies, in particular from the financial services and insurance sector, and the downgrade of the credit ratings for the U.K. by Standard & Poor's, Moody's and Fitch (all with negative outlook). For more information on the effect of a credit rating downgrade, please see \"A downgrade of U.S. or non-U.S. government securities by credit rating agencies could adversely impact the value of such securities in our investment portfolio and create uncertainty in the market generally\" above.. As well as short-term issues, the long-term effect of Brexit on the value of our investment portfolio at this time is uncertain, and such volatility and uncertainty will likely continue as negotiations progress to determine the future terms of the U.K.'s relationship with the E.U.. 51. Table of Contents. Brexit could lead to potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. determines which E.U. laws to replace or replicate. Aspen may have to review our underwriting platforms and incur additional regulatory costs as a result. For example, depending on the outcome of the negotiations referred to above, Aspen's U.K. operations could lose their E.U. financial services passport which provides them the license to operate across borders within the single E.U. market without obtaining local regulatory approval where insurers and cedants are located. Aspen's Lloyd's operations would be subject to the decisions taken by the Council of Lloyd's in connection with operating a subsidiary in Brussels, Belgium through which Lloyd's businesses would seek access to the single market following Brexit. Such decision and any operational and capital requirements relating thereto might result in increased costs or Funds at Lloyd's and might not provide the same access to markets that Aspen currently requires to conduct business in the E.U. In addition, depending on the terms of Brexit, the U.K.'s regulatory regime in terms of Solvency II regulation and governance could also diverge and no longer be equivalent. For more information, see \"The E.U. Directive on Solvency II may affect the way in which Aspen U.K. and AMAL manage their businesses\" above.. Depending on the terms of Brexit, the U.K. could also lose access to the single E.U. market and to the global trade deals negotiated by the E.U. on behalf of its members. Such a decline in trade could affect the attractiveness of the U.K. as a global investment center and, as a result, could have a detrimental impact on U.K. growth. Although we have an international customer base, we could be adversely affected by reduced growth and greater volatility in the U.K. economy.. Changes to U.K. immigration policy could likewise occur as a result of Brexit, including by restricting the free travel of employees from and to the United Kingdom. Although the U.K. will likely seek to retain its diverse pool of talent, London's role as a global center for specialty (re)insurance business may decline, particularly if financial services entities shift their headquarters to the E.U. and the E.U. financial services passport is not maintained.. In addition to the above, a snap U.K. general election was held on June 8, 2017 which resulted in a hung Parliament and ultimately to a Confidence and Supply Agreement between the Conservative Party and the Democratic Unionist Party which had allowed the Conservative Party to remain in government. The results of the snap general election, which was called by the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom in order to secure a strong mandate on Brexit, may further increase the uncertainty of the Brexit negotiations and the political uncertainty in the United Kingdom and could cause further economic volatility and market uncertainty as described above.. Finally, there is also some concern that the result of the Brexit referendum could encourage other countries to conduct their own referenda on their continuing relationship with and participation in the E.U. This could possibly lead to exits by other E.U. members, which could draw out the current levels volatility and uncertainty being felt within the E.U. market. Any of the above effects of Brexit, and others which cannot be anticipated, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition.. Changes in current accounting practices and future pronouncements may materially impact our reported financial results.. Unanticipated developments in accounting practices may require us to incur considerable additional expenses to comply with such developments, particularly if we are required to prepare information relating to prior periods for comparative purposes or to apply the new requirements retroactively. Such developments may also significantly impact the presentation of such financial statements and may require restatements. The impact of changes in current accounting practices and future pronouncements cannot be predicted but they may affect the calculation of net income, net equity and other relevant financial statement line items.. Other Operational Risks. We could be adversely affected by the loss of one or more of our senior underwriters or key employees or by an inability to attract and retain senior staff.. Our success has depended and will continue to depend, in substantial part, on our ability to attract and retain our teams of underwriters in various business lines and other key employees. The loss of one or more of our senior underwriters could adversely impact our business by, for example, making it more difficult to retain clients or other business contacts whose relationship depends in part on the service of the departing personnel. In addition, the loss of services of underwriters could strain our ability to execute our new business lines, as described elsewhere in this report. In general, the loss of key services of any members of our current underwriting teams may adversely affect our business and operating results.. We also rely substantially upon the services of our senior management team. Although we have employment agreements with all members of our senior management team, if we were to unexpectedly lose the services of one or more of our senior management team or other key personnel, our business could be adversely affected. For example, a change in our senior management team could cause a risk of disruption to our business including, but not limited to, our underwriting, claims handling, reserving and financial reporting functions. We do not currently maintain key-man life insurance policies with respect to any of our employees.. 52. Table of Contents. Changes in employment laws, taxation and acceptable compensation practice may limit our ability to attract senior employees to our current operating platforms.. Our business and operations are, by their nature, international and we compete for senior employees on a global basis. Changes in local employment legislation, taxation and the approach of regulatory bodies to compensation practice within our operating jurisdictions may impact our ability to recruit or retain senior employees or the cost to us of doing so. For example, the introduction in the United Kingdom of the Senior Insurance Managers Regime (\"SIMR\") has extended the scope of regulatory pre-approval requirements for senior managers to more functions covered and to non-U.K. senior managers with the ability to influence U.K. companies. As well as the regulatory pre-approval for those senior insurance managers, there are evolving individual regulatory accountability requirements and sanctions and requirements in relation to their remuneration. Any failure to retain senior employees may adversely affect the strategic growth of our business and our operating results.. Our business is subject to risks related to litigation.. We may be subject to a variety of legal actions relating to our current and past business operations including, but not limited to, disputes over coverage or claims adjudication, including claims alleging that we have acted in bad faith in the administration of claims by our policyholders, disputes with our agents, producers or network providers over compensation and termination of contracts and related claims, disputes relating to certain business acquired or disposed of by us and disputes with former employees. We cannot determine with any certainty what new theories of recovery may evolve or what their impact may be on our business.  Multi-party or class action claims may present additional exposure to substantial economic, non-economic or punitive damage awards. The loss of even one of these claims, if it results in a significant damage award or a judicial ruling that was otherwise detrimental, could create a precedent in the industry that could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.. We rely on the execution of complex internal processes to maintain our operations and the operational risks that are inherent to our business, including those resulting from fraud or employee errors or omissions, may result in financial losses.. We rely on the accurate execution of complex internal processes to maintain our operations. We seek to monitor and control our exposure to risks arising from these processes through a risk control framework encompassing a variety of reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. We cannot provide absolute assurance that these processes and procedures will effectively control all known risks or effectively identify unforeseen risks, or that our employees and third party agents will effectively implement them. Loss may result from, among other things, fraud, errors, failure to document transactions properly, failure to obtain proper internal authorization, failure to comply with underwriting or other internal guidelines or failure to comply with regulatory requirements. Loss from these risks could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, insurance policies that we have in place with third parties may not protect us in the event that we experience a significant loss from these risks.. A failure in our operational systems or infrastructure or those of third parties, including those caused by security breaches or cyber-attacks could disrupt our business, damage our reputation and cause losses.. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage, and transmission of confidential and other information and assets, including in our computer systems and networks. Our business, including our ability to adequately price products and services, establish reserves, provide an effective and secure service to our customers, value our investments and report our financial results in a timely and accurate manner, depends significantly on the integrity, availability and timeliness of the data we maintain, as well as the data and assets held through third party outsourcers, service providers and systems.. In an effort to ensure the integrity of such data, we implement new security measures and systems and improve or upgrade our existing security measures and systems on a continuing basis. Although we have implemented administrative and technical controls and take protective actions to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and to protect our information technology and assets, and we endeavor to modify such procedures as circumstances warrant and negotiate agreements with third party providers to protect our assets, such measures may be insufficient to prevent, among other things, unauthorized access, computer viruses, malware or other malicious code or cyber-attack, catastrophic events, system failures and disruptions (including in relation to new security measures and systems), employee errors or malfeasance, third party (including outsourced service providers) errors or malfeasance, loss of assets and other security events (each, a \"Security Event\"). Like other global companies, we have from time to time experienced, and are likely to continue to be subject to, Security Events, none of which to date have had a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. As the breadth and complexity of our security infrastructure continues to grow, the potential risk of a Security Event increases. If additional Security Events occur, these events may jeopardize our or our clients' or counterparties' confidential and other information processed and stored with us, and transmitted through our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions, delays, or malfunctions in our, our clients', counterparties' or third parties' operations, or result in data loss or loss of assets which could result in significant losses and/or fines, reputational damage or a. 53. Table of Contents. material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures and to pursue recovery of lost data or assets and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses. We currently maintain cyber liability insurance that provides third party or first party liability coverages to protect us, subject to policy limits and coverages, against certain events that could be a Security Event. However, a Security Event could nonetheless have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition.. We outsource certain technology and business process functions to third parties and may increasingly do so in the future. If we do not effectively develop, implement and monitor our outsourcing strategy, third party providers do not perform as anticipated or we experience technological or other problems with a transition, we may not realize productivity improvements or cost efficiencies and may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and loss of business. Our outsourcing of certain technology and business processes functions to third parties may expose us to enhanced risks related to data security, which could result in monetary and reputational damages. In addition, our ability to receive services from third party providers may be impacted by cultural differences, political instability, unanticipated regulatory requirements or policies. As a result, our ability to conduct our business may be adversely affected.. Despite the contingency plans and facilities we have in place and our efforts to observe the regulatory requirements surrounding information security, our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption of the infrastructure that supports our business in the communities in which we are located, or of outsourced services or functions, including a disruption involving electrical, communications, transportation, or other services we use.  If a disruption occurs in one location and our employees in that location are unable to occupy our offices and conduct business or communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with clients may suffer and we may not be able to successfully implement contingency plans that depend on communication or travel.  If sustained or repeated, such business interruption, system failure, service denial or data loss and/or damage could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely fashion or perform other necessary business functions.. Data protection failures could disrupt our business, damage our reputation and cause losses.. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding. We are subject to numerous U.S. federal and state laws and non-U.S. regulations governing the protection of personal and confidential information of our clients or employees, including in relation to medical records, credit card data and financial information.. On May 24, 2016, the European General Data Protection Regulation (the \"GDPR\") entered into force, which repeals the Data Protection Directive (95/46/EC) and will be directly applicable in all E.U. member states from May 25, 2018. We will be subject to the GDPR when offering goods and services to E.U. based data subjects (regardless of whether involving our E.U. based subsidiary or operations). The GDPR sets out a number of requirements that must be complied with when handling the personal data of such E.U. based data subjects including: the obligation to appoint data protection officers in certain circumstances; new rights for individuals to be \"forgotten\" and rights to data portability; the principal of accountability and the obligation to make public notification of significant data breaches. The GDPR also retains and adds to some existing requirements, including restrictions on transfers outside the EEA and the requirement to include specific data protection provisions in agreements with data processors. These laws and regulations are increasing in complexity and number, change frequently and sometimes conflict. In particular, as the E.U. states reframe their national legislation to prepare for and harmonize with the GDPR, we will need to monitor compliance with all relevant E.U. member states' laws and regulations, including where permitted derogations from the GDPR are introduced.. The introduction of the GDPR, and any resultant changes in E.U. member states' national laws and regulations, may increase our compliance obligations and may necessitate the review and implementation of policies and processes relating to our collection and use of data. This increase in compliance obligations could also lead to an increase in compliance costs which may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. If any person, including any of our employees or those with whom we share such information, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to our client or employee data, or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we could be subject to significant monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines and/or criminal prosecution in one or more jurisdictions. For example, the GDPR increases sanctions for non-compliance, which could result in a penalty of up to the higher of (a) \20020 million; and (b) 4% of a firm's global annual revenue for the preceding financial year for certain infringements, such as unlawful data transfer outside of the EEA. In addition, a data breach could result in negative publicity which could damage our reputation and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our internal controls over financial reporting may have gaps or other deficiencies.. Our internal control system was designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. However,. 54. Table of Contents. our internal controls over financial reporting may have gaps or other deficiencies and there is no guarantee that significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in internal controls may not occur in the future. Any such gaps or deficiencies may require significant resources to remediate and may also expose us to litigation, regulatory fines or penalties, or other losses. Inadequate process design or a failure in operating effectiveness could result in a material misstatement of our financial statements due to, but not limited to, poorly designed systems, changes in end-user computing, failure to perform relevant management reviews, accounting errors or duplicate payments, any of which could result in a restatement of financial accounts.. We may be adversely affected if our capital models provide materially different indications than actual results.. We have made substantial investments to develop proprietary analytic and modeling capabilities to facilitate our underwriting, risk management, capital modeling and allocation, and risk assessments relating to the risks we assume. These models and other tools help us to manage our risks, understand our capital utilization and risk aggregation, inform management and other stakeholders of capital requirements and seek to improve the risk/return profile or optimize the efficiency of the amount of capital we apply to cover the risks in the individual contracts we sell and in our portfolio as a whole. However, given the inherent uncertainty of modeling techniques and the application of such techniques, the possibility of human or systems error, the challenges inherent in consistent application of complex methodologies in a fluid business environment and other factors, our models, tools and databases may not accurately address the risks we currently cover or the emergence of new matters which might be deemed to impact certain of our coverages. Accordingly, our models may understate the exposures we are assuming. Conversely, our models may prove too conservative and contribute to factors which may impede our ability to grow in respect of new markets or perils or in connection with our current portfolio of coverages or the loss environment otherwise may prove more benign than our capital loading for catastrophes or other modeled losses. In such case of excess capital, we would make a judgment about redeploying the capital in lines of businesses or pursuing other capital management activities, such as dividends or share repurchases, which judgment will also depend on modeling techniques and results. If capital models prove inadequate, our result of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely impacted.. The failure of our underwriting processes could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. We seek to manage our loss exposure by maintaining a disciplined underwriting process throughout our (re)insurance operations. Underwriting is a matter of judgment, involving important assumptions about matters that are inherently unpredictable and beyond our control, and for which historical experience and probability analysis may not provide sufficient guidance. The failure of any of the underwriting risk management strategies that we employ could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We rely on internal controls to limit our risk exposure within prescribed parameters. However, our controls and monitoring efforts may be ineffective, permitting one or more underwriters to exceed their underwriting authority and cause us to (re)insure risks outside the agreed upon guidelines. To the extent that our underwriters exceed their authorities, agree to inappropriate contract terms and conditions or are influenced by broker incentives, or if there is ineffective channel management or inaccurate underwriting data capture and reporting leading to licensing and sanction breaches, our financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares. Our ability to pay dividends or to meet ongoing cash requirements may be constrained by our holding company structure.. We are a holding company and, as such, we do not expect to have any significant operations or assets other than our ownership of the shares of our subsidiaries, including our Operating Subsidiaries. Dividends and other permitted distributions and loans from our Operating Subsidiaries are expected to be our sole source of funds to meet ongoing cash requirements, including our debt service payments and other expenses, and dividend payments, to our preference and ordinary shareholders, as appropriate. Our Operating Subsidiaries are subject to capital, regulatory and other requirements that inform their ability to declare and pay dividends and make loans to other Group companies. In line with common market practice for regulated institutions, the PRA, the regulatory agency which oversees the prudential regulation of insurance companies in the U.K. such as Aspen U.K., previously requested that it be afforded the opportunity to provide a \"non-objection\" prior to all future dividend payments made by Aspen U.K. In 2017, the PRA stated that they no longer routinely require Aspen U.K. to apply for a non-objection to dividends provided such dividend payment and Aspen U.K.'s subsequent capital position are within Aspen U.K.'s board-approved solvency capital risk appetite. See \"Business  -  Regulatory Matters  -  Bermuda Regulation  -  Restrictions on Dividends, Distributions and Reduction of Capital,\" \"Business  -  Regulatory Matters  -  U.K. and E.U. Regulation  -  Restrictions on Dividend Payments,\" and \"Business  -  Regulatory Matters  -  U.S. Regulation  -  State Dividend Limitations\" in Item 1, above and \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Liquidity\" in Part II, Item 7 below for more information on our ability to pay dividends. These and other requirements may mean that our Operating Subsidiaries are unable to pay sufficient. 55. Table of Contents. dividends to enable us to meet our ongoing cash requirements, which could materially adversely affect our liquidity or financial condition.. Certain regulatory and other constraints may limit our ability to pay dividends on our securities.. We are subject to Bermuda regulatory constraints that affect our ability to pay dividends on our ordinary shares and make other distributions on our Preference Shares (as defined below). Under the Companies Act, we may declare or pay a dividend or distribution out of contributed surplus only if we have reasonable grounds to believe that we are, and would after the payment be, able to meet our liabilities as they become due or if the realizable value of our assets would thereby not be less than our liabilities. See \"Business  -  Regulatory Matters\" in Item 1, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Liquidity\" in Part II, Item 7 and Note 15 of our consolidated financial statements, \"Statutory Requirements and Dividends Restrictions\" for more information on our ability to pay dividends.. There are provisions in our charter documents which may reduce or increase the voting rights of our ordinary shares.. In general, and except as provided below, shareholders have one vote for each ordinary share held by them and are entitled to vote at all meetings of shareholders. However, if, and so long as, the ordinary shares of a shareholder are treated as \"controlled shares\" (as determined under section 958 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\")) of any U.S. Person (as defined below) and such controlled shares constitute 9.5% or more of the votes conferred by our issued shares, the voting rights with respect to the controlled shares of such U.S. Person (a \"9.5% U.S. Shareholder\") shall be limited, in the aggregate, to a voting power of less than 9.5%, under a formula specified in our bye-laws. The formula is applied repeatedly until the voting power of all 9.5% U.S. Shareholders has been reduced to less than 9.5%. This provision was intended to mitigate the risk that Aspen Holdings or any of our non-U.S. subsidiaries would be characterized as a \"controlled foreign corporation\" for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As described below however, this provision will not mitigate this risk based on a recent legislative change. See \"Risk Factors-Risks Related to Taxation - Holders of 10% or more of Aspen Holdings' shares may be subject to U.S. income taxation under the controlled foreign corporation (\"CFC\") rules\" for more information.. In addition, the Board may limit a shareholder's voting rights (including appointment rights, if any, granted to holders of our 5.95% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preference Shares and 5.625% Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preference Shares, each with a liquidation preference of $25 per share (collectively, the \"Preference Shares\")) where it deems it appropriate to do so to (i) avoid the existence of any 9.5% U.S. Shareholder, and (ii) avoid certain material adverse tax, legal or regulatory consequences to us or any holder of our shares or its affiliates. \"Controlled shares\" includes, among other things, all shares of the Company that such U.S. Person is deemed to own directly, indirectly or constructively (within the meaning of section 958 of the Code). As of December 31, 2017, there were 59,474,085 ordinary shares outstanding of which 5,650,038 ordinary shares would constitute 9.5% of the votes conferred by our issued and outstanding shares.. For purposes of this discussion, the term \"U.S. Person\" means: (i) a citizen or resident of the United States, (ii) a partnership or corporation, or entity treated as a corporation, created or organized in or under the laws of the United States, or any political subdivision thereof, (iii) an estate the income of which is subject to U.S. federal income taxation regardless of its source, or (iv) a trust if either (x) a court within the United States is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of such trust and one or more U.S. Persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of such trust or (y) the trust has a valid election in effect to be treated as a U.S. Person for U.S. federal income tax purposes or (z) any other person or entity that is treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as if it were one of the foregoing.. Under these provisions, certain shareholders may have their voting rights limited to less than one vote per share, while other shareholders may have voting rights in excess of one vote per share. See Part II, Item 5, \"Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchaser of Equity Securities  -  Bye-Laws.\" Moreover, these provisions could have the effect of reducing the votes of certain shareholders who would not otherwise be subject to the 9.5% limitation by virtue of their direct share ownership.. As a result of any reallocation of votes, voting rights of some of our shareholders might increase above 5% of the aggregate voting power of the outstanding ordinary shares, thereby possibly resulting in such shareholders becoming a reporting person subject to Schedule 13D or 13G filing requirements under the Exchange Act. In addition, the reallocation of the votes of our shareholders could result in some of the shareholders becoming subject to filing requirements under Section 16 of the Exchange Act.. We also have the authority under our bye-laws to request information from any shareholder for the purpose of determining whether a shareholder's voting rights are to be reallocated under the bye-laws. If a shareholder fails to respond to our request for information or submits incomplete or inaccurate information in response to a request by us, we may, in our sole discretion, eliminate such shareholder's voting rights.. 56. Table of Contents. There are provisions in our bye-laws which may restrict the ability to transfer ordinary shares and which may require shareholders to sell their ordinary shares.. The Board may decline to register a transfer of any ordinary shares if it appears to the Board, in its sole and reasonable discretion, after taking into account the limitations on voting rights contained in our bye-laws, that any non-de minimis adverse tax, regulatory or legal consequences to us, any of our subsidiaries or any of our shareholders or their affiliates may occur as a result of such transfer. Our bye-laws also provide that if the Board determines that share ownership by a person may result in material adverse tax consequences to us, any of our subsidiaries or any shareholder or its affiliates, then we have the option to require that shareholder to sell the repurchase right for fair market value the minimum number of ordinary shares held by such person which is necessary to eliminate the material adverse tax consequences.. Some of the provisions in our bye-laws and in the laws and regulations of the jurisdictions where we conduct business could delay or deter a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider desirable and may make it more difficult to replace members of our Board.. Our bye-laws contain provisions that may entrench directors and make it more difficult for shareholders to replace directors even if shareholders consider it beneficial to do so. These provisions could delay or prevent a change of control that shareholders might consider favorable. For example, these provisions may prevent a shareholder from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of our ordinary shares offered by a bidder in a potential takeover. Even in the absence of an attempt to effect a change in management or a takeover attempt, these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our ordinary shares if they are viewed as discouraging changes in management and takeover attempts in the future.. For example, our bye-laws contain the following provisions that could have such an effect:. • election of directors is staggered, meaning that members of only one of three classes of directors are elected each year;. • directors serve for a term of three years (unless aged 70 years or older);. • directors may decline to approve or register any transfer of shares to the extent they determine, in their sole discretion, that any non-de minimis adverse tax, regulatory or legal consequences to Aspen Holdings, any of its subsidiaries, shareholders or affiliates would result from such transfer;. • if directors determine that share ownership by any person may result in material adverse tax consequences to Aspen Holdings, any of its subsidiaries, shareholders or affiliates, we have the option, but not the obligation, to purchase or assign to a third party the right to purchase the minimum number of shares held by such person solely to the extent that it is necessary to eliminate such material risk;. • shareholders have limited ability to remove directors; and. • if the ordinary shares of any U.S. Person constitute 9.5% or more of the votes conferred by the issued shares of Aspen Holdings, the voting rights with respect to the controlled shares of such U.S. Person shall be limited, in the aggregate, to a voting power of less than 9.5%, see \"Risk Factors  -  Risks Related to Ordinary Shares  -  There are provisions in our charter documents which may reduce or increase the voting rights of our ordinary shares\" in Part 1, Item 1A, above.. Further, as described under Part I, Item 1, \"Business  -  Regulatory Matters,\" prospective shareholders are required to notify our regulators on becoming \"controllers\" of any of our Operating Subsidiaries through ownership of ordinary shares above certain thresholds, typically 10% of outstanding ordinary shares. Some regulators, such as the PRA, require their approval prior to such shareholder becoming a \"controller.\" Other regulators may serve a notice of objection or are entitled to injunctive relief. There can be no assurance that the applicable regulatory body would agree that a shareholder who owned greater than 10% of our ordinary shares did not, because of the limitation on the voting power of such shares, control the applicable Operating Subsidiary.. These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of the Company, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our shareholders might consider to be desirable. If these restrictions delay, deter or prevent a change of control, such restrictions may make it more difficult to replace members of our Board and may have the effect of entrenching management regardless of their performance.. We cannot pay a dividend on our ordinary shares unless the full dividends for the most recently ended dividend period on all outstanding Preference Shares have been declared and paid.. Our Preference Shares rank senior to our ordinary shares with respect to the payment of dividends. As a result, unless the full dividends for the most recently ended dividend period on all outstanding Preference Shares have been declared and paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside), we cannot declare or pay a dividend on our ordinary shares. Under. 57. Table of Contents. the terms of our Preference Shares, these restrictions will continue until full dividends on all outstanding Preference Shares for four consecutive dividend periods have been declared and paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside for payment). See Part II, Item 5 \"Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  -  Description of our Preference Shares\" below for more information on our Preference Shares.. Our ordinary shares rank junior to our Preference Shares in the event of a liquidation, winding up or dissolution of the Company.. In the event of a liquidation, winding up or dissolution of the Company, our ordinary shares rank junior to our Preference Shares. In such an event, there may not be sufficient assets remaining after payments to holders of our Preference Shares to ensure payments to holders of ordinary shares. See Part II, Item 5 \"Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  -  Description of our Preference Shares\" below for more information on our Preference Shares.. U.S. persons who own our ordinary shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests than U.S. persons who are shareholders of a U.S. corporation.. The Companies Act, which applies to us, differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. These differences include, but are not limited to, the manner in which directors must disclose transactions in which they have an interest, the rights of shareholders to bring class action and derivative lawsuits, the scope of indemnification available to directors and officers and provisions relating to the amalgamations, mergers and acquisitions and takeovers. Holders of our ordinary shares and Preference Shares may therefore have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction within the U.S.. Generally, the duties of directors and officers of a Bermuda company are owed to the company only. Shareholders of Bermuda companies typically do not have rights to take action against directors or officers of the company and may only do so in limited circumstances. Class actions and derivative actions are typically not available to shareholders under Bermuda law. The Bermuda courts, however, would ordinarily be expected to permit a shareholder to commence an action in the name of a company to remedy a wrong to the company where the act complained of is alleged to be beyond the corporate power of the company or illegal, or would result in the violation of the company's memorandum of association or bye-laws. Furthermore, consideration would be given by a Bermuda court to acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against the minority shareholders or, for instance, where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of the company's shareholders than that which actually approved it. When the affairs of a company are being conducted in a manner that is oppressive or prejudicial to the interests of some shareholders, one or more shareholders may apply to the Supreme Court of Bermuda, which may make such order as it sees fit, including an order regulating the conduct of the company's affairs in the future or ordering the purchase of the shares of any shareholders by other shareholders or by the company. Additionally, under our bye-laws and as permitted by Bermuda law, each shareholder has waived any claim or right of action against our directors or officers for any action taken by directors or officers in the performance of their duties, except for actions involving fraud or dishonesty. In addition, the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and Preference Shares and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Bermuda law are not as clearly established as under statutes or judicial precedent in U.S. jurisdictions, particularly the State of Delaware.. We are a Bermuda company and it may be difficult to effect service of process on us or enforce judgments against us or our directors and executive officers in the United States.. We are incorporated under the laws of Bermuda and our business is based in Bermuda. In addition, certain of our directors and officers reside outside the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of such persons are located in jurisdictions outside the United States. As such, it may be difficult or impossible to effect service of process upon us or those persons in the United States or to recover against us or them on judgments of U.S. courts, including judgments predicated upon civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws.. We have been advised by Bermuda counsel that there is no treaty in force between the U.S. and Bermuda providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. As a result, whether a U.S. judgment would be enforceable in Bermuda against us or our directors and officers depends on whether the U.S. court that entered the judgment is recognized by the Bermuda court as having jurisdiction over us or our directors and officers, as determined by reference to Bermuda conflict of law rules. A judgment debt from a U.S. court that is final and for a sum certain based on U.S. federal securities laws will not be enforceable in Bermuda unless the judgment debtor had submitted to the jurisdiction of the U.S. court, and the issue of submission and jurisdiction is a matter of Bermuda (not U.S.) law.. In addition to and irrespective of jurisdictional issues, the Bermuda courts will not enforce a U.S. federal securities law that is either penal or contrary to public policy in Bermuda. It is the advice of our Bermuda counsel that an action brought pursuant to a public or penal law, the purpose of which is the enforcement of a sanction, power or right at the instance of the state in its sovereign. 58. Table of Contents. capacity, will not be entertained by a Bermuda court. Certain remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including certain remedies under U.S. federal securities laws, would not be available under Bermuda law or enforceable in a Bermuda court, as they would be contrary to Bermuda public policy. Further, no claim may be brought in Bermuda against us or our directors and officers in the first instance for violation of U.S. federal securities laws because these laws have no extraterritorial jurisdiction under Bermuda law and do not have force of law in Bermuda. A Bermuda court may, however, impose civil liability on us or our directors and officers if the facts alleged in a complaint constitute or give rise to a cause of action under Bermuda law.. The New York Stock Exchange may suspend trading generally as a result of technical issues which could cause an interruption in the trading market for our securities.. Our ordinary shares trade on the NYSE under the symbol \"AHL\" and our Preference Shares also trade on the NYSE. Trading in our securities that are listed on the NYSE may be halted due to a market disruption event, systems failure, cyber security attack or for other technical reasons. If the NYSE is unable to maintain the availability of its electronic trading systems or otherwise safeguard the security of trading within those platforms due to the occurrence of a technical failure, cyber-attack or other information security incident, an investor's ability to trade in our securities may be compromised. On a few occasions in the past the NYSE has suspended trading in all securities listed on the NYSE due to unusual but major technical issues. During such a halt in trading, there may be no trading market for our ordinary shares or Preference Shares making it difficult for an investor to sell our securities in the volume, or at a price and time, which is attractive to such investor.. Risks Related to Taxation. Our non-U.S. companies (other than AUL) may be subject to U.S. income tax and that may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and your investment.. If Aspen Holdings or any of its non-U.S. subsidiaries (other than AUL) were considered to be engaged in a trade or business in the United States, it could be subject to U.S. corporate income and additional branch profits taxes on the portion of its earnings effectively connected to such U.S. business, in which case its operating results could be materially adversely affected. However, the operating results of Aspen U.K. should not be materially adversely affected as Aspen U.K. is considered to be engaged in a U.S. trade or business solely as a result of the binding authorities granted to certain subsidiaries incorporated in the United States.. We intend to manage the business of Aspen Holdings and its non-U.S. subsidiaries so that none of these companies (other than AUL) should be subject to U.S. tax because none of these companies should be treated as engaged in a trade or business within the United States (other than Aspen U.K. and APJ Jersey with respect to the business produced pursuant to the binding authorities granted to certain subsidiaries incorporated in the United States). However, U.S. excise tax on premium income attributable to U.S. risks, U.S. Base Erosion Anti-avoidance Tax (\"BEAT\") on premium ceded from U.S. subsidiaries to non-U.S. related parties, U.S. withholding tax on certain U.S. source investment income, U.S. corporate income and additional branch profits tax on the profits attributable to the business of Aspen U.K. produced pursuant to the above described binding authority agreements, and profits attributable to APJ Jersey reflecting the recent expansion of its business into the Latin American market may apply. However, because there is considerable uncertainty as to the activities which constitute being engaged in a trade or business within the United States, we cannot be certain that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") will not contend successfully that some or all of Aspen Holdings or its non-U.S. subsidiaries (other than AUL) is/are engaged in a trade or business in the United States based on activities in addition to the binding authorities discussed above.. AUL is a member of Lloyd's and subject to a closing agreement between Lloyd's and the IRS (the \"Closing Agreement\"). Pursuant to the terms of the Closing Agreement, all members of Lloyd's, including AUL, are subject to U.S. federal income taxation. Those members that are entitled to the benefits of a U.S. income tax treaty are deemed to be engaged in a U.S. trade or business through a U.S. permanent establishment. Those members not entitled to the benefits of such a treaty are merely deemed to be engaged in a U.S. trade or business. The Closing Agreement provides rules for determining the income considered to be attributable to the permanent establishment or U.S. trade or business. We believe that AUL may be entitled to the benefits of the U.S. income tax treaty with the U.K., although the position is not certain.. Our non-U.K. companies may be subject to U.K. tax that may have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. None of us, other than our subsidiaries that are incorporated in the U.K. (\"the U.K. Subsidiaries\"), should be treated as being resident in the U.K. for corporation tax purposes except for APJ Jersey which, although not incorporated in the U.K., is treated as resident in the U.K. as a result of its central management and control being exercised from the U.K. Each of us, other than the U.K. Subsidiaries and APJ Jersey, currently intends to manage our affairs so that none of us, other than the U.K. Subsidiaries and APJ Jersey, is resident in the U.K. for tax purposes.. 59. Table of Contents. A company that is not resident in the U.K. for corporation tax purposes can nevertheless be subject to U.K. corporation tax if it carries on a trade through a permanent establishment in the U.K. but, in that case, the charge to U.K. corporation tax is limited to profits (both revenue profits and capital gains) attributable directly or indirectly to such permanent establishment.. Each of us, other than the U.K. Subsidiaries and APJ Jersey, currently intends that we will operate in such a manner so that none of us (other than the U.K. Subsidiaries and APJ Jersey) carries on a trade through a permanent establishment in the U.K. Nevertheless, because neither case law nor U.K. statute completely defines the activities that constitute trading in the U.K. through a permanent establishment, Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs (\"HMRC\") might contend successfully that any of us (other than the U.K. Subsidiaries and APJ Jersey) are trading in the U.K. through a permanent establishment.. The U.K. has no income tax treaty with Bermuda. There are circumstances in which companies that are neither resident in the U.K. nor entitled to the protection afforded by a double tax treaty between the U.K. and the jurisdiction in which they are resident may be exposed to income tax in the U.K. (other than by deduction or withholding) on the profits of a trade carried on there, even if that trade is not carried on through a permanent establishment. However, each of us intends that we will operate in such a manner that none of us will fall within the charge to income tax in the U.K. (other than by deduction or withholding).. If any of us, other than the U.K. Subsidiaries and APJ Jersey, were treated as being resident in the U.K. for U.K. corporation tax purposes, or as carrying on a trade in the U.K., whether or not through a permanent establishment, our operating results could be materially adversely affected.. Our U.K. operations may be affected by recent changes in U.K. and Australian tax law.. The U.K. Subsidiaries and APJ Jersey should be treated as resident in the U.K. and accordingly be subject to U.K. tax in respect of their worldwide income and gains. Any change in the basis or rate of U.K. corporation tax could materially adversely affect the operations of the U.K. resident companies. The U.K. corporation tax rate is currently 19% and will be reduced to 17% with effect from April 1, 2020.. The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (\"OECD\") published its final reports on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (\"BEPS Reports\") in October 2015, containing recommendations on measures to coordinate multilateral action on international tax rules. Recommended actions include ensuring that transfer pricing outcomes are in line with value creation (noting that the current rules may facilitate the transfer of risks or capital away from countries where the economic activity takes place), neutralizing the effect of hybrid financial instruments and entities and limiting the deductibility of intra-group interest payments for tax purposes.. In response to the BEPS recommendations, revised transfer pricing guidelines have been adopted and legislation has been introduced in relation to hybrid mismatches, the latter of which came into effect on January 1, 2017. Legislation to restrict tax deductions for interest expenses of large groups, in line with the OECD's recommendations, was brought into effect from April 1, 2017. These changes to U.K. tax law in response to the BEPS Reports may have a material adverse effect on our intra-group financing arrangements and our results.. Legislation restricting the amount of U.K. profit in any particular accounting period that can be offset by historical tax losses was brought into effect from April 1, 2017. Should utilization of any tax losses be delayed or restricted as a result of this legislation, this could have a material adverse effect on our results.. The U.K. diverted profits tax (\"DPT\") is separate from existing U.K. corporation tax and is charged at a higher rate of 25%. It is an anti-avoidance measure aimed at protecting the U.K. tax base against profits being earned by activities carried out in the U.K. but which are not taxed in the U.K., in particular as a result of arrangements amongst companies in the same multinational group.  The U.K.'s network of double tax treaties does not offer protection from a DPT charge. In the event that the rules apply to certain arrangements, then upfront payment of HMRC's estimate of the deemed tax liability may be required. If any of our U.K. or non-U.K. companies is liable for DPT as a result of intra-group arrangements, this could have a material adverse effect on our results.. The U.K. Criminal Finances Act, which came into force on September 30, 2017, creates a new corporate criminal offense of failure to prevent facilitation of tax evasion.  A company (wherever incorporated) will be guilty (on a strict liability basis) if a person performing services for or on behalf of that company (whether as an employee, agent or in any other capacity), facilitates the commission by another person of a U.K. tax evasion offense, or, in certain circumstances, a tax evasion offense under any non-U.K. law, unless the company can prove that it had reasonable prevention procedures in place. Should any Group entities be held criminally liable under this legislation, this may have a material impact on our results.. The Australian Government announced a new diverted profits tax which will apply to tax years beginning on or after July 1, 2017. The diverted profits tax is set at 40% and is modeled on the U.K.'s DPT. If Aspen U.K.'s Australian branch is deemed liable for Australian DPT as a result of intra-group arrangements, this could have a material adverse effect on our results in future years.. 60. Table of Contents. Our U.K. and U.S. operations may be adversely affected by a transfer pricing adjustment in computing U.K. or U.S. taxable profits.. Any arrangements between U.K.-resident entities of the Aspen group and other members of the Aspen group are subject to the U.K. transfer pricing regime. Consequently, if any agreement (including any reinsurance agreements) between a U.K.-resident entity of the Aspen group and any other Aspen group entity (whether that entity is resident in or outside the U.K.) is found not to be on arm's length terms and as a result a U.K. tax advantage is being obtained, an adjustment will be required to compute U.K. taxable profits as if such an agreement were on arm's length terms. Similar rules apply in the U.S and would have a similar impact on our U.S. resident entities if transfer pricing adjustments were required. Any transfer pricing adjustment could adversely impact the tax charge suffered by the relevant U.K. or U.S. resident entities of the Aspen group.. The BEPS Reports included a recommendation that groups should be required in the future to report details of their operations and intra-group transactions in each jurisdiction, known as country by country reporting (\"CBCR\"). The U.K. has implemented these recommendations with effect from January 1, 2016. Many non-OECD countries are still considering the implications of the proposals. It is possible that our approach to transfer pricing may become subject to greater scrutiny from the tax authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate, which may lead to transfer pricing audits in the future. Any transfer pricing adjustment could adversely impact the tax charge suffered by the relevant U.K. or U.S. resident entities of the Aspen group.. In April 2016, the E.U. issued proposals to require all E.U. entities (including branches) to publish their CBCR reports. The proposals, if implemented, are likely to cause increased audit activity from E.U. tax authorities. Legislation has been enacted giving power to introduce regulations requiring public disclosure of U.K. CBCR reports, although this power has not yet been exercised.. Our operations may be affected by the introduction of an E.U. financial transaction tax (\"FTT\").. On February 14, 2013, the E.U. Commission published a proposal for a Directive for a common FTT in those E.U. Member States which choose to participate (the \"FTT Zone\"). The FTT proposal remains subject to negotiation between the participating Member States and consensus has not yet been reached as to the scope of the tax and how it should be levied. The introduction of FTT in the proposed or similar form could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results.. Our operations may be affected by the introduction of the Common Reporting Standard (\"CRS\").. The CRS has been introduced as an initiative by the OECD and is imposed by its member countries, including those within the E.U. through the E.U. Directive on Administrative Co-operation.  Similar to the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act introduced by the United States, the CRS requires financial institutions which are subject to the rules to report certain information in respect of financial account holders. We intend to operate in compliance with the CRS. Any inadvertent failure to do so may have an adverse effect on our business and operating results.. Recent and future changes in U.S. federal income tax law or the manner in which it is interpreted could materially adversely affect the non-U.S. insurance industry and our results of operations.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"2017 Act\") was passed by the U.S. Congress and was signed into law on December 22, 2017, with certain provisions intended to eliminate certain perceived tax advantages of companies (including insurance companies) that have legal domiciles outside the United States but have certain U.S. connections and United States persons investing in such companies.  For example, the 2017 Act includes a base erosion anti-avoidance tax (the \"BEAT\") that could make affiliate reinsurance between United States and non-U.S. members of our Group economically unfeasible. As discussed in more detail below, the 2017 Act also revises the rules applicable to passive foreign investment companies (\"PFICs\") and controlled foreign corporations (\"CFCs\").  Although we are currently unable to predict the ultimate impact of the 2017 Act on our business, shareholders and results of operations, the 2017 Act may increase the tax liability of the U.S. members of our group that reinsure with non-U.S. group members and may impact the timing and amount of U.S. federal income taxes imposed on certain U.S. shareholders.  Further, it is possible that other legislation could be introduced and enacted by the current Congress or future Congresses that could have an adverse impact on us.. U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations regarding whether a company is engaged in a trade or business within the U.S. is a PFIC, or whether U.S. Persons would be required to include in their gross income the \"subpart F income\" of a CFC or RPII are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. There currently are only recently proposed regulations regarding the application of the PFIC rules to insurance companies, and the regulations regarding RPII have been in proposed form since 1991. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying such rules may be forthcoming. The Company cannot be certain if, when, or in what form such regulations or pronouncements may be implemented or made, or whether such guidance will have a retroactive effect.. 61. Table of Contents. Holders of 10% or more of Aspen Holdings' shares may be subject to U.S. income taxation under the controlled foreign corporation (\"CFC\") rules.. A \"10% U.S. Shareholder\" (as defined below) of a non-U.S. corporation that is a CFC at any time during a taxable year that owns shares in such non-U.S. corporation directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities on the last day of the non-U.S. corporation's taxable year during which it is a CFC must include in its gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of the CFC's \"subpart F income,\" even if the subpart F income is not distributed. A \"10% U.S. Shareholder\" is a U.S. Person (as defined below) that owns (directly, indirectly through non-U.S. entities or \"constructively\" (as defined below)) at least 10% of the total combined voting power or value of all classes of stock of a non-U.S. corporation. The 2017 Act expanded the definition of 10% U.S. Shareholder to include ownership by value (rather than just vote), so provisions in our organizational documents described above reducing the voting power of  9.5% U.S. Shareholders will no longer mitigate the potential risk of 10% U.S. Shareholder status. \"Subpart F income\" of a non-U.S. insurance corporation typically includes \"foreign personal holding company income\" (such as interest, dividends and other types of passive income), as well as insurance and reinsurance income (including underwriting and investment income). A non-U.S. corporation is considered a CFC if \"10% U.S. Shareholders\" own (directly, indirectly through non-U.S. entities or by attribution by application of the constructive ownership rules of section 958(b) of the Code (i.e., \"constructively\")) more than 50% of the total combined voting power of all classes of voting stock of that non-U.S. corporation, or the total value of all stock of that non-U.S. corporation. For the purposes of taking into account insurance income, a CFC also includes a non-U.S. corporation earning insurance income in which more than 25% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock (or more than 25% of the total value of the stock) is owned by 10% U.S. Shareholders on any day during the taxable year of such corporation, if the gross amount of premiums or other consideration for the reinsurance or the issuing of insurance or annuity contracts (other than certain insurance or reinsurance related to some country risks written by certain insurance companies, not applicable here) exceeds 75% of the gross amount of all premiums or other consideration in respect of all risks.. For purposes of this discussion, the term \"U.S. Person\" means: (i) a citizen or resident of the United States, (ii) a partnership or corporation created or organized in or under the laws of the United States, or organized under the laws of any political subdivision thereof, (iii) an estate the income of which is subject to U.S. federal income taxation regardless of its source, (iv) a trust if either (x) a court within the United States is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of such trust and one or more U.S. Persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of such trust or (y) the trust has a valid election in effect to be treated as a U.S. Person for U.S. federal income tax purposes and (z) any other person or entity that is treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as if it were one of the foregoing.. We believe that because of the anticipated dispersion of our share ownership, no U.S. Person who owns shares of Aspen Holdings directly or indirectly through one or more non-U.S. entities should be treated as owning (directly, indirectly through non-U.S. entities, or constructively) 10% or more of the total voting power or value of all classes of shares of Aspen Holdings or any of its non-U.S. subsidiaries. Our shares may not be as widely dispersed as we believe, however, due to the application of certain ownership attribution rules. No assurance may be given that a U.S. Person who owns our shares will not be characterized as a 10% U.S. Shareholder, in which case such U.S. Person may be subject to taxation under the CFC rules.. U.S. Persons who hold our shares may be subject to U.S. income taxation at ordinary income rates on their proportionate share of our related party insurance income (\"RPII\").. If the RPII (determined on a gross basis) of any of our non-U.S. Operating Subsidiaries, Silverton, Peregrine and APJ Jersey were to equal or exceed 20% of that company's gross insurance income in any taxable year and direct or indirect insureds (and persons related to those insureds) own directly or indirectly through entities 20% or more of the voting power or value of Aspen Holdings, then a U.S. Person who owns any shares of such non-U.S. Operating Subsidiary (directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities) on the last day of the taxable year on which it is an RPII CFC would be required to include in its income for U.S. federal income tax purposes such person's pro rata share of such company's RPII for the entire taxable year, determined as if such RPII were distributed proportionately only to U.S. Persons on that date regardless of whether such income is distributed, in which case such person's investment could be materially adversely affected. In addition, any RPII that is includible in the income of a U.S. tax-exempt organization may be treated as unrelated business taxable income. The amount of RPII earned by a non-U.S. Operating Subsidiary (generally, premium and related investment income from the indirect or direct insurance or reinsurance of any direct or indirect U.S. holder of shares or any person related to such holder) will depend on a number of factors, including the identity of persons directly or indirectly insured or reinsured by the company. We believe that the direct or indirect insureds of each of our non-U.S. Operating Subsidiaries (and related persons) did not directly or indirectly own 20% or more of either the voting power or value of our shares in prior years of operation and we do not expect this to be the case in the foreseeable future. Additionally, we do not expect gross RPII of each of our non-U.S. Operating Subsidiaries to equal or exceed 20% of its gross insurance income in any taxable year for the foreseeable future, but we cannot be certain that this will be the case because some of the factors which determine the extent of RPII may be beyond our control.. 62. Table of Contents. U.S. Persons who dispose of our shares may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation at the rates applicable to dividends on a portion of such disposition.. Section 1248 of the Code, in conjunction with the RPII rules, provides that if a U.S. Person disposes of shares in a non-U.S. corporation that earns insurance income in which U.S. Persons own 25% or more of the shares (even if the amount of gross RPII is less than 20% of the corporation's gross insurance income and the ownership of its shares by direct or indirect insureds and related persons is less than the 20% threshold), any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as a dividend to the extent of the holder's share of the corporation's undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the holder owned the shares (whether or not such earnings and profits are attributable to RPII). In addition, such a holder will be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned by the holder. These RPII rules should not apply to dispositions of our shares because Aspen Holdings will not itself be directly engaged in the insurance business. The RPII provisions, however, have never been interpreted by the courts or the Treasury Department in final regulations, and regulations interpreting the RPII provisions of the Code exist only in proposed form. It is not certain whether these regulations will be adopted in their proposed form or what changes or clarifications might ultimately be made thereto or whether any such changes, as well as any interpretation or application of the RPII rules by the IRS, the courts, or otherwise, might have retroactive effect. The Treasury Department has authority to impose, among other things, additional reporting requirements with respect to RPII. Accordingly, the meaning of the RPII provisions and the application thereof to us is uncertain.. U.S. Persons who hold our shares will be subject to adverse tax consequences if we are considered to be a passive foreign investment company (\"PFIC\") for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. If we are considered a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, a U.S. Person who owns any of our shares will be subject to adverse tax consequences, including subjecting the investor to a greater tax liability than might otherwise apply and subjecting the investor to tax on amounts in advance of the date on which tax would otherwise be imposed, in which case such U.S. Person's investment could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if we were considered a PFIC, upon the death of any U.S. individual owning shares, such individual's heirs or estate would not be entitled to a \"step-up\" in the basis of the shares that might otherwise be available under U.S. federal income tax laws. The 2017 Act limits the potential application of an insurance income exception to the PFIC rules to a non-U.S. insurance company that is a qualifying insurance corporation that would be taxable as an insurance company if it were a U.S. corporation and maintains insurance liabilities of more than 25% of such company's assets for a taxable year (or maintains insurance liabilities that at least equal or exceed 10% of its assets and it satisfies a facts and circumstances test that requires a showing that the failure to exceed the 25% threshold is due to run-off or rating agency circumstances) (the \"Reserve Test\"). However, no assurance may be given that our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries will satisfy the Reserve Test in future years.  In addition, the IRS issued proposed regulations intended to clarify the application of the PFIC rules to non-U.S. insurance companies. These proposed regulations will not be effective until adopted in final form. We believe that we are not, have not been, and currently do not expect to become, a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We cannot assure you, however, that we will not be deemed a PFIC by the IRS because we cannot predict the likelihood of finalization of the proposed regulations or the scope, nature, or impact of the proposed regulations on us, should they be formally adopted or enacted or whether our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries will be able to satisfy the Reserve Test in future years. Accordingly, no assurance may be given that we will not be characterized as a PFIC. If we were considered a PFIC, it could have material adverse tax consequences for an investor that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation.. U.S. tax-exempt organizations who own our shares may recognize unrelated business taxable income.. A U.S. tax-exempt organization may recognize unrelated business taxable income if a portion of the insurance income of any of our non-U.S. Operating Subsidiaries is allocated to the organization, which generally would be the case if any of our non-U.S. Operating Subsidiaries is a CFC and the tax-exempt shareholder is a U.S. 10% Shareholder or there is RPII, certain exceptions do not apply and the tax-exempt organization owns any of our shares. Although we do not believe that any U.S. Persons should be allocated such insurance income, we cannot be certain that this will be the case. U.S. tax-exempt investors are advised to consult their own tax advisors.. Scope of application of recently enacted legislation is uncertain.. The Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (\"FATCA\") provisions of the Code require withholding agents to withhold 30% of a U.S. dividend interest or other fixed payment made to a Foreign Financial Institution (\"FFI\") and will, beginning January 1, 2019, require withholding on gross proceeds from the sale of securities which produce U.S. source interest or dividends, unless the FFI has entered into an agreement with the IRS to report account information for any of the FFI's U.S. accountholders. Certain entities in the Aspen Group were identified as FFIs and were registered with the IRS ahead of the commencement date. The U.S. Treasury released models for Intergovernmental FATCA Agreements (\"IGAs\") with other jurisdictions that will allow FFIs in those jurisdictions to report U.S. accountholder information only to local revenue authorities rather than the IRS. The U.K. / U.S. IGA was signed in September 2012. Non-Publicly Traded Securities Holders may be required to provide any information that we. 63. Table of Contents. determine necessary to avoid the imposition of such withholding tax in order to allow us to satisfy such obligations. In the event that this withholding tax is imposed, our operating results could be materially adversely affected.. U.S. Persons may be subject to FBAR and \"Specified Foreign Financial Asset\" reporting requirements.. U.S. Persons holding our shares should consider their possible obligation to file FINCEN Form 114, Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts Report, with respect to their shares. Additionally, such U.S. and non-U.S. persons should consider their possible obligations to annually report certain information with respect to us with their U.S. federal income tax returns. Shareholders should consult their tax advisors with respect to these or any other reporting requirement which may apply with respect to their ownership of our shares.. The impact of Bermuda's letter of commitment to the OECD to eliminate harmful tax practices is uncertain and could adversely affect our tax status in Bermuda.. The OECD has published reports and launched a global dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of tax havens and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. In the OECD's progress report dated April 2, 2009, Bermuda was designated as an OECD \"White List\" jurisdiction that has substantially implemented the internationally agreed tax standards. The standards for the OECD compliance are to have at least 12 signed Tax Information Exchange Agreements (\"TIEAs\") with other OECD members or non-OECD members. Bermuda has signed approximately 41 TIEAs which exceeds the requisite amount and demonstrates Bermuda's commitment to preserve the standards. In April 2016, Bermuda agreed to participate in the Tax Sharing requirements for CBCR. We are not able to predict what changes will arise from the commitment or whether such changes will subject us to additional taxes. We submitted a CBCR to the Bermudian tax authorities in December 2017.. Changes to Bermuda tax policies may impact our financial position.. Under current Bermuda law, we are not subject to tax on income, profits, withholding, capital gains or capital transfers. Furthermore, we obtained from the Minister of Finance of Bermuda under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966 (as amended) an assurance that, in the event Bermuda enacts legislation imposing tax computed on profits, income, any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of the tax will not be applicable to us or our operations until March 31, 2035. Tax policy and legislation in Bermuda could change in the future (as is the case in other jurisdictions) and as such no guarantee can be given as to whether the current tax treatment afforded to us will continue after March 31, 2035."
