[1] "Item 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Business and Strategy. We have incurred annual net losses since our inception, and we may continue to incur net losses in the future and may never reach profitability.. We have a history of losses, and we may not ever achieve full year profitability. We experienced net losses of $19.3 million, $12.0 million and $6.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. As of December 31, 2017, our accumulated deficit was $437.1 million. We expect to continue to incur operating losses as a result of expenses associated with the continued development and expansion of our business. Our expenses include research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative costs. Furthermore, these expenses are not the only factors that may contribute to our net losses. For example, interest expense on any future financing arrangements that we incur could contribute to our net losses. Any failure to increase revenue or manage our cost structure as we implement initiatives to grow our business could prevent us from achieving profitability, or sustaining profitability if we do achieve it. In addition, our ability to achieve profitability is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties discussed below, many of which are beyond our control. Failure to become and remain profitable may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to raise capital and continue operations.. We have yet to achieve positive total cash flow, and our ability to generate positive cash flow is uncertain.. To develop and expand our business, we have made significant up-front investments in our manufacturing capacity and incurred research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses. In addition, our growth has required a significant investment in working capital. We experienced negative cash flows from operating activities of $4.6 million and $0.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and positive cash flows from operating activities of $5.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. The cumulative cash flows from operating activities during the three year period were insufficient to offset cash flows used in investing activities principally to expand our manufacturing capacity during the same time period. As a result, we experienced negative total cash flows during the three year period.. We expect that for the foreseeable future our total cash flow will remain negative. In particular, we will need cash to fund our significant planned future capital expenditures to expand manufacturing capacity in our East Providence, Rhode Island manufacturing facility and with the planned construction of our second manufacturing plant. We will also require significant amounts of working capital to support our growth and we will need to increase our inventories of raw materials and our products as we seek to grow our business. In addition, to the extent we incur long-term debt, we may have debt maturities from time to time that will require cash in order to repay those obligations. We may not achieve sufficient revenue growth to generate positive future cash flow and, therefore,. 15. we may need to raise additional capital from investors to achieve our expected growth. An inability to generate positive cash flow for the foreseeable future or raise additional capital on reasonable terms, if at all, may decrease our long-term viability.. We are dependent on a single manufacturing facility. Any significant disruption to this facility or the failure of any one of our three production lines in this facility to operate according to our expectation could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We have three production lines in a single manufacturing facility located in East Providence, Rhode Island. Our ability to meet the demands of our customers depends on efficient, proper and uninterrupted operations at this manufacturing facility. In the event of a significant disruption to our sole manufacturing facility or breakdown of any of the production lines, we currently do not expect that we would have sufficient inventory in stock to meet demand until the production lines return to operation.. Power failures or disruptions, the breakdown, failure or substandard performance of equipment, or the damage or destruction of buildings and other facilities due to fire or natural disasters could severely affect our ability to continue our operations. In the event of such disruptions, we are unlikely to find suitable alternatives or may not be able to make needed repairs on a timely basis and at reasonable cost, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In particular, our manufacturing processes include the use of high pressures, high temperatures and flammable chemicals, which subjects us to a significant risk of loss resulting from fire, spill or related event. We had occasional incidences of fires at our initial facility in Northborough, Massachusetts that preceded our current manufacturing facility in East Providence, Rhode Island.. If our manufacturing facility or any equipment therein were to be damaged or cease operations, it may reduce revenue, cause us to lose customers and otherwise adversely affect our business. The insurance policies we maintain to cover losses caused by fire or natural disaster, including business interruption insurance, may not adequately compensate us for any such losses and will not address a loss of customers that we expect would result. If our existing manufacturing facility was damaged or destroyed we would be unable to operate our business for an extended period of time and our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected, potentially even threatening our viability.. If the expected growth in the demand for our products does not follow after each of our planned capacity expansions, then our business will be materially adversely affected.. Our long-term growth plan requires that we continue to increase our production capacity. As we pursue our capacity expansion plans, we will incur significant capital expenditures and increased levels of manufacturing expenses in anticipation of expected growth in demand for our products. In particular, we expect that these substantial additional expenditures will be made by us significantly in advance of the existence of the level of demand that would ensure the most efficient use of our planned new capacity. As a result, if the expected growth in demand for our products fails to materialize within a reasonable amount of time following each of our planned capacity expansions, whether because of low oil and gas prices, the loss of a significant customer, the failure to develop new markets or for any other reason, then we would suffer decreased levels of cash flow and our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected.. If we fail to achieve the increase in production capacity that our long-term growth requires in a timely manner, or at all, our growth may be hindered and our business or results of operations may be materially adversely affected.. If, for any reason, including our inability to obtain financing, our planned expansion of capacity in our existing East Providence, Rhode Island facility or in our planned second manufacturing facility to be constructed in Statesboro, Georgia should fail to be completed in a timely manner, or at all, or any of the production lines in our existing or future manufacturing facilities do not operate according to our expectations, sales and or profitability may be impeded, our growth may be hindered and our business or results of operations may be materially adversely affected.. Many factors could delay, impede or prevent the expansion of our existing manufacturing facility or construction and operation of a second manufacturing facility or cause us to reduce the scale or scope of the expansion projects, including:. •  our inability to obtain financing on favorable terms, or at all;. •  design, engineering and construction difficulties or delays;. •  our failure or delay in obtaining necessary legal, regulatory and other approvals;. •  interruptions in the supply of the necessary equipment, or construction materials or labor or an increase in their respective prices;. 16. •  opposition of local interests; and. •  natural disasters, accidents, political unrest or unforeseen events.. Many factors could prevent our existing and future manufacturing facilities from producing at expected, projected or targeted nameplate capacities or could cause us to reduce the scale or scope of future capacity expansions or facilities, including:. •  design and engineering failures;. •  inability to retain, manage and train a skilled workforce;. •  the challenges of operating technically advanced or higher volume equipment than currently employed at our current facility in East Providence, Rhode Island;. •  improper operation of the manufacturing equipment;. •  decreases in our manufacturing yields due to the inefficient use of the materials needed to make our products in our manufacturing process;. •  the availability of raw materials to support the levels of production that we anticipate at these facilities;. •  strikes or labor disputes; and. •  damage to the manufacturing equipment due to design and engineering flaws, construction difficulties or operator error.. Any such capacity expansion will place a significant strain on our senior management team and our financial and other resources. The costs associated with and the resources necessary for our capacity expansion plans could exceed our expectations and result in a materially adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. If we are unable to complete the projects as contemplated, the costs incurred in connection with such projects may not be recoverable. For example, during 2013, we redesigned and reduced the planned scale of the third production line in our East Providence, Rhode Island facility. We recorded an associated $3.4 million impairment charge during 2013 related to the write-off of construction in progress assets. As of December 31, 2017, we have capitalized approximately $7.2 million related to engineering designs and other pre-construction costs related to our planned second manufacturing facility in Statesboro, Georgia. A redesign of, change in scale of, or failure to complete the construction of second manufacturing facility and other similar impairments of our assets in the future could result in a materially adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. We will require significant additional capital to pursue our growth strategy, but we may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms or at all.. The growth of our business will depend on substantial amounts of additional capital for expansion of existing production lines or construction of new production lines or facilities, for ongoing operating expenses, for continued development of our aerogel technology platform, or for introduction of new product lines. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the rate of our revenue growth, our introduction of new products, our enhancements to existing products, and our expansion of sales and marketing and product development activities. In particular, our plans to expand our existing facility in East Providence, Rhode Island and to construct a planned second manufacturing facility in Statesboro, Georgia are dependent on our ability to raise debt and potentially issue equity. There is no assurance that we will be able obtain any such type of financing on terms acceptable to us or at all.. In addition, we may consider strategic acquisitions of complementary businesses or technologies to grow our business, which would require significant capital and could increase our capital requirements related to future operation of the acquired business or technology.. We may not be able to obtain loans or raise additional capital on acceptable terms or at all. Our loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank, under which we have the ability to borrow up to $20.0 million, contains restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, which, if not waived, could prevent us from obtaining needed capital. In addition, our revolving credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank will mature on April 28, 2018. Any future credit facilities or debt instruments would likely contain similar restrictions. We may not be able to obtain bank credit arrangements or effect an equity or debt financing on terms acceptable to us or at all in order to fund our future capacity expansion plans. A failure to obtain additional financing when needed could adversely affect our ability to maintain and grow our business.. 17. A sustained downturn in the energy industry, due to lower oil and gas prices or reduced energy demand, could decrease demand for some or all of our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Demand for a significant portion of our products and services depends on the level of capital expenditure by companies in the energy industry, which depends, in part, on current and expected energy prices. Prices of oil and gas have been highly volatile in the past several years with oil prices reaching a high above $100 per barrel in mid-2014 to a low below $30 per barrel in early 2016. The volatility in oil prices and declines in oil prices have resulted, from time to time, in a reduction in capital expenditures by many companies in the energy industry, and in particular by end-users of our products involved in the construction and expansion of offshore and onshore oil and gas production facilities. Sustained lower energy prices may also reduce our end-users' need to improve energy savings by using premium-priced insulation products like ours, thus reducing demand for our products and causing downward pressure on the pricing of our products. A sustained downturn in the capital expenditures of our customers, whether due to periods of lower energy prices or a further decrease in the market price of oil and gas or otherwise, and including the perception that such a downturn might occur or continue, may delay capital projects, decrease demand for our products and cause downward pressure on the prices we charge for our products, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Such downturns, including the perception that they might occur or continue, could have a significant negative impact on the market price of our common stock.. The markets we serve are subject to general economic conditions and cyclical demand, which could harm our business and lead to significant shifts in our results of operations from quarter to quarter that make it difficult to project long-term performance.. Our results of operations have been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by general economic conditions and the cyclical pattern of certain industries in which our customers and end-users operate. Demand for our products and services depends in large part upon the level of capital and maintenance expenditures by many of our customers and end-users, in particular those in the energy, petrochemical and power generation industries, and firms that design, construct and operate facilities for these industries.. These customers' expenditures historically have been cyclical in nature and vulnerable to economic downturns. In particular, profitability in the energy industry is highly sensitive to supply and demand cycles and commodity prices, which historically have been volatile; and our customers in this industry historically have tended to delay large capital projects, including expensive maintenance and upgrades, during industry downturns. Delays in customer projects may cause fluctuations in the timing or the amount of revenue earned and our results of operations in a particular period. Prolonged periods of little or no economic growth could decrease demand for oil and gas which, in turn, could result in lower demand for our products and a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, this historically cyclical demand and potential customer project delays may lead to significant shifts in our results of operations from quarter to quarter, which limits our ability to make accurate long-term predictions about our future performance. We estimate that sales to end-use customers in the energy industry accounted for approximately 95% of our 2017 revenues and we expect that they will continue to account for a significant portion of our future revenues.. If we fail to meet required project, investment and job requirement goals for the second manufacturing facility in a timely fashion, the package of incentives offered by governmental entities may be terminated or we may be required to repay the value of incentives received from governmental entities, which could have a material adverse impact our financial condition and results of operations.. We have been offered incentives by the State of Georgia, Bulloch County Development Authority and the City of Statesboro to locate and operate our planned second manufacturing facility in Statesboro, Georgia. These incentives include a cash grant, income and withholding tax credits, training assistance, the gift of a 43 acre site, a 10 year property tax abatement, infrastructure improvements, reduced fees, site preparation services, and temporary office space. If we do not commence construction of the second manufacturing facility by February 15, 2019, the governmental entities may terminate the agreement under which the incentives are to be provided. There can be no assurance that we will be able to commence construction prior to that date or that the parties to the agreement will agree to extend such date. In addition, if we do not achieve specific investment and job creation goals at the Statesboro, Georgia site by 2021, and maintain such levels for a period of seven years thereafter, we will be required to repay the value of any incentives received to the governmental entities, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. We have elected to delay the second manufacturing facility to better align the timing of this capacity expansion with our assessment of future demand. As a result, we have not yet incurred an obligation to repay any incentives that may be provided by the government entities.. 18. Growth has placed significant demands on our management systems and our infrastructure. If we fail to manage our long-term growth effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan, address competitive challenges and meet applicable product specifications and technical and delivery requirements.. We may be unable to manage our growth. To manage our anticipated future growth, we must continue to:. •  improve and expand our manufacturing, sales and marketing, and engineering organizations,. •  enhance our research and development capabilities and resources,. •  improve regulatory compliance, financial control and reporting systems;. •  expand our manufacturing and distribution facilities and capacity; and. •  recruit, train and retain additional qualified personnel to enhance our managerial capabilities.. All of these measures will require significant expenditures and will demand the attention of management. At certain points in the past, significant growth in demand for our products has put our management and operating systems under strain. In addition, the physical expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs and may divert our management and business development resources. Furthermore, we compete for personnel and advisors with other companies and other organizations, many of which are larger and have greater name recognition and financial and other resources than we do. Due to our limited resources, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or adequately recruit, train and retain qualified personnel. Any inability to manage growth could result in a loss of existing customers and revenues, delays in the execution of our business plans, and disruption of our operations. If we fail to achieve the necessary level of efficiency in our organization as it grows, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial conditions.. We allocate our manufacturing operations, sales and marketing, research and development, general and administrative and financial resources based on our business plan, which includes assumptions about current and future orders and revenues from customers. However, the factors involved in such projections are uncertain. If our assumptions regarding these factors prove to be incorrect or if competing products gain further market share, then actual demand for our aerogel products could be significantly less than the demand we anticipate and we may not be able to grow our revenue or achieve profitability.. Shortages of the raw materials used in the production of our products, increases in the cost of such materials or disruptions in our supply chain could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. The raw materials used in the production of our products consist primarily of fiber battings, silica precursors and additives. In addition, the production process requires the use of process gases and other materials typical to the chemical processing industry, as well as access to electricity, natural gas, water and other basic utilities. Although we are not dependent on a single supplier, we are dependent on the ability of our third-party suppliers to supply such materials on a timely and consistent basis. While these materials and utilities are available from numerous sources, they may be subject to fluctuations in availability and price.. Our third-party suppliers may not dedicate sufficient resources to meet our scheduled delivery requirements or our suppliers may not have sufficient resources to satisfy our requirements during any period of sustained or growing demand. Failure of suppliers to supply, delays in supplying or disruptions in the supply chain for our raw materials, or adverse allocations in the supply of certain high demand raw materials could materially adversely affect the results of our operations. Supply disruptions may affect our ability to meet our delivery schedules on a timely basis and materially negatively impact our results of operations. For example, in September 2015, pursuant to a force majeure notification, our primary carbon dioxide gas supplier temporarily curtailed supply of carbon dioxide to us due to a feedstock issue impacting the northeastern United States. During this period, the supply disruption required that we intermittently idle a portion of our manufacturing equipment thereby reducing our production volume.. Most of our raw materials are procured through individual purchase orders or short-term contracts and not through long-term contracts that ensure a fixed price or guaranteed supply for an extended period of time. This procurement strategy may not support sustained long-term supply chain stability. Fluctuations in the prices of these raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our ability to pass increases in raw material prices on to our customers is limited due to competitive pricing pressure and the time lag between increased costs and implementation of related price increases.. In particular, we purchase a variety of silica precursors from several suppliers, mostly pursuant to individual purchase orders or short-term contracts and not pursuant to long-term contracts. We do not have a secure, long-term supply of silica precursors. We may not be able to establish arrangements for secure, long-term silica precursor supplies at prices consistent with our current costs or may incur a delay in supply while we seek alternative sources. In addition, fluctuations in ethanol prices may affect the cost of silica precursors. Any inability to continue to purchase silica precursors without long-term agreements in place, or to otherwise establish a. 19. long-term supply of silica precursors at prices consistent with our current costs, would have a material adverse effect on our ability to increase our sales and achieve profitability.. From time to time we have had difficulty in consistently producing products that meet applicable product specifications and technical and delivery requirements, and such difficulties could expose us to financial, contractual or other liabilities.. Our insulation products are technologically advanced and require a precise and complex manufacturing process. Because of the precision and complexity of this manufacturing process and the high-performance characteristics of our products, from time to time we have had difficulty in consistently producing products that meet applicable specifications and technical and delivery requirements, including, our customers' and the end-users' specifications and requirements. At certain times in the past, the growth in demand for our products has contributed to this difficulty by putting significant pressure on our management, our personnel and our production facilities. See \"Risk Factors  -  Growth has placed significant demands on our management systems and our infrastructure. If we fail to manage our long-term growth effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan, address competitive challenges and meet applicable product specifications and technical and delivery requirements.\". Any failure to meet these product specifications or technical and delivery requirements could result in the termination of existing customer contracts or purchase orders, the elimination or reduction of future purchase orders, the impairment of customer relationships, and the incurrence of financial, contractual or other liabilities. Products that do not meet these specifications or requirements may also expose us to warranty and product liability claims and associated adverse publicity. Any such termination, reduction, impairment, liability or publicity could result in a broader loss of existing customers and revenues and delay the execution of our business plans, disrupt our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. The market for insulation products incorporating aerogel blankets is relatively undeveloped and our products may never be widely adopted, which would have a material adverse effect on our business.. The market for insulation products utilizing aerogel blankets is relatively undeveloped. Accordingly, our future results of operations will depend in large part on our ability to gain market share of the global energy infrastructure insulation market. Our ability to gain market share in this market is highly dependent on the acceptance of our products by large, well-established end-users, distributors, contractors and OEMs. The insulation market has historically been slow to adopt new technologies and products. Most insulation types currently in use in these markets have been in use for over 50 years. In addition, there is a tendency of end-users in some of our markets to opt for the lower short-term costs associated with traditional insulation materials. If we fail to successfully educate existing and potential end-users, distributors, contractors and OEMs regarding the benefits and value of our aerogel products, or if existing users of our products no longer rely on aerogel insulation for their insulation needs, our ability to sell our products and grow our revenue could be limited.. Our business strategy also includes the development of next generation products with the performance characteristics and price points required by markets outside the energy infrastructure market, including the building materials market. In the event that we are unable to develop products that meet market needs, we may be unable to successfully penetrate such markets. In addition, the innovative product development process requires the dedication of significant human, technical and financial resources, with no certainty of success or recovery of our related expenses. As a result, we may be unable to grow our business in markets outside of the energy infrastructure market, which could adversely affect the demand for our products.. Because we are often a new supplier to our end-use customers, we also may face concerns from these end-use customers about our reliability and our ability to produce our products in a volume sufficient to meet their supply needs. As a result, we may experience a reluctance or unwillingness by existing end-use customers to expand their use of our products and by potential end-use customers to begin using our products. Our products may never reach mass adoption, and changes or advances in technologies could adversely affect the demand for our products.. A failure to increase, or a decrease in, demand for aerogel insulation products caused by lack of end-user, market or distribution channel acceptance, technological challenges or competing technologies and products would result in a lower revenue growth rate or decreased revenue, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations.. Our products are expensive relative to other insulation products, which could make it more difficult for us to grow our revenue and achieve broader adoption of our aerogel products.. While we believe our products have superior performance attributes and may sometimes have the lowest cost on a fully-installed basis or offer life-cycle cost savings, our competitors offer many traditional insulation products that are priced below our products. Our products are expensive relative to other insulation products and end-use customers may not value our products' performance. 20. attributes sufficiently to pay their premium price. This could make it more difficult for us to grow our revenue and achieve broader adoption of our aerogel products. In addition, some of the benefits of our products are based on reduced installation time and related labor expense. In regions where labor costs are significantly lower than in the United States and Europe, the cost benefits of reduced installation times may not be adequate to overcome the relatively high price of our products and may make it more difficult for us to grow our revenue in those regions.. The insulation market we serve is highly competitive; if we are unable to compete successfully, we may not be able to increase or maintain our market share and revenues.. We face strong competition primarily from established manufacturers of traditional insulation materials. Large producers of traditional insulation materials, such as Johns Mansville, Saint-Gobain, Knauf Gips, Owens Corning and Rockwool, dominate the insulation market. In addition, we face increasing competition from other companies seeking to develop high-performance insulation materials, including aerogel insulation. For example, Cabot Corporation manufactures, markets and sells a different form of aerogel insulation that is competitive with our products, particularly in the offshore oil and gas sector for use in pipe-in-pipe applications. In addition, we are aware of competitors in China, including Guangdong Alison Hi-Tech Co, Ltd and Nano Tech Co, Ltd, which manufacture and market aerogel insulation products in blanket form. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and better capitalized than we are and possess greater financial resources. Our competitors could focus their substantial financial resources to develop new or additional competing products or develop products that are more attractive to potential customers than the products that we offer. We expect to face an increasing amount of competition in the aerogel insulation market over the next several years as existing competitors and new entrants seek to develop and market their own aerogel products.. Because some insulation manufacturers are substantially larger and better capitalized than we are, they may have the ability to sell their products at substantially lower costs to a large, existing customer base. Our products are expensive relative to other insulation products and end-use customers may not value our products' superior performance attributes sufficiently to pay their premium price. In addition, from time to time we may increase the prices for our products and these price increases may not be accepted by our end-use customers and could result in a decreased demand for our products. Similarly, we may make changes to our products in order to respond to customer demand or to improve their performance attributes and these changes may not be accepted by our end-use customers and could result in a decrease in demand for our products. These competitive factors could:. •  make it more difficult for us to attract and retain customers;. •  cause us to slow the rate of increase of our prices, delay or cancel planned price increases, lower our prices or discount our prices in order to compete; and. •  reduce our market share and revenues.. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. A substantial portion of our revenue comes from sales in foreign countries and we may expand our operations outside of the United States, which subjects us to increased economic, trade, foreign exchange, operational and political risks that could materially adversely impact our business, financial conditions and results of operations and also increase our costs and make it difficult for us to operate profitably.. A substantial portion of our sales are to shipment destinations outside the United States, including Korea, India, Hong Kong, Norway, Brazil, Taiwan, Australia, Great Britain, Germany and the Netherlands. Total revenue generated from outside of the United States, based on our shipment destination, amounted to $60.2 million or 54% of total revenue, $82.0 million or 70% of total revenue and $78.0 million or 64% of total revenue, for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. As a result, we are subject to a number of risks, including, but not limited to:. •  the effect of applicable U.S. and foreign tax structures, including tax rates that may be higher than tax rates in the United States or taxes that may be duplicative of those imposed in the United States;. •  trade relations among the United States and those foreign countries in which our customers and suppliers have operations, including protectionist measures such as tariffs and import or export licensing requirements, whether imposed by the United States or such foreign countries;. •  general economic and political conditions in each country, which may interfere with, among other things, our supply chain, our customers and all of our activities in a particular location;. •  difficulty in the enforcement of contractual obligations in non-U.S. jurisdictions and the collection of accounts receivable from foreign accounts;. 21. •  different regulatory regimes in the various countries in which we operate or sell our products;. •  inadequate intellectual property protection in foreign countries;. •  the difficulties and increased expense in complying with multiple and potentially conflicting domestic and foreign laws, regulations, product approvals and trade standards, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions, as well as the rules and regulations of the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control and similar sanctions laws;. •  foreign currency exchange controls, restrictions and fluctuations, which could result in reduced revenue and increased operating expense;. •  transportation delays or interruptions;. •  labor rules and collective bargaining arrangements in foreign jurisdictions;. •  difficulty in staffing and managing (including ensuring compliance with internal policies and controls) geographically widespread operations; and. •  terrorist activity and political unrest, particularly given the use of our products at energy facilities.. In addition, sales of our products are generally conducted in U.S. dollars and we also bid for foreign projects in U.S. dollars. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the local currencies in the countries into which we sell our products may result in our products becoming more expensive relative to competing insulation products priced in the local currency. If the U.S. dollar strengthens, our sales into foreign countries with relatively weaker currencies may be adversely impacted and we may be less competitive in bidding for projects in those markets.. Our success will depend in large part on our ability to manage the effects of continued global political and economic uncertainty, especially in our international markets.. Because of our significant international operations, we could be materially adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-corruption, anti-bribery and anti-kickback laws.. We operate on a global basis, with 54% of our product sales in 2017 being made to destinations outside the United States, including Canada, Mexico, Europe, Asia, South America and the Middle East. Our business operations and sales in countries outside the United States are subject to anti-corruption, anti-bribery and anti-kickback laws and regulations, including restrictions imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, as well as the United Kingdom Bribery Act of 2010, or UK Bribery Act. The FCPA, UK Bribery Act, and similar anti-corruption, anti-bribery and anti-kickback laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies, their intermediaries and their agents from making improper payments to government officials or any other persons for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We operate and sell our products in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-corruption, anti-bribery and anti-kickback laws may conflict with local customs and practices. We train our employees concerning anti-corruption, anti-bribery and anti-kickback laws and have policies in place that prohibit employees from making improper payments. We continue to implement internal controls and procedures designed to ensure that we comply with anti-corruption, anti-bribery and anti-kickback laws, rules and regulations and mitigate and protect against corruption risks. We cannot provide assurance that our internal controls and procedures will protect us from reckless, criminal or other acts committed by our employees or third-parties with whom we work. If we are found to be liable for violations of the FCPA or similar anti-corruption, anti-bribery and anti-kickback laws in international jurisdictions, either due to our own acts or out of inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others, we could suffer criminal or civil fines or penalties or other repercussions, including reputational harm, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. A failure to comply with export control or economic sanctions laws and regulations could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may be unable to ensure that our distributors comply with applicable sanctions and export control laws.. We operate on a global basis, with 54% of our product sales in 2017 being made to destinations outside the United States, including Canada, Mexico, Europe, Asia, South America and the Middle East. We face several risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including compliance with applicable economic sanctions laws and regulations, such as laws and regulations administered by the United States Department of Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, the United States Department of State and the United States Department of Commerce. We must also comply with all applicable export control laws and regulations of the United States and other countries. Violations of these laws or regulations could result in significant additional. 22. sanctions including criminal or civil fines or penalties, more onerous compliance requirements, more extensive debarments from export privileges or loss of authorizations needed to conduct aspects of our international business.. In certain countries, we may engage third party agents or intermediaries, such as customs agents, to act on our behalf and if these third party agents or intermediaries violate applicable laws, their actions may result in criminal or civil fines or penalties or other sanctions being assessed against us. We take certain measures designed to ensure our compliance with U.S. export and economic sanctions law and we believe that we have never sold our products to Iran, Cuba, Sudan or Syria through third party agents or intermediaries or made any effort to attract business from any of these countries. However, it is possible that some of our products were sold or will be sold to distributors or other parties that, without our knowledge or consent, re-exported or will re-export such products to these countries. Although none of our non-U.S. distributors are located in, or to our knowledge, conduct business with Iran, Cuba, Sudan or Syria, we may not be successful in ensuring compliance with limitations or restrictions on business with these or other countries subject to economic sanctions. There can be no assurance that we will be in compliance with export control or economic sanctions laws and regulations in the future.. Any such violation could result in significant criminal or civil fines, penalties or other sanctions and repercussions, including reputational harm that could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. We rely on sales to a limited number of direct customers, including distributors, contractors, OEMs, partners and end-use customers for the substantial majority of our revenue, and the loss of one or more significant direct customers or several of our smaller direct customers could materially harm our business. In addition, we understand from our direct customers that a substantial majority of their sales of our products are to a small number of end-use customers and the loss of one or more significant end-use customers or several of our smaller end-use customers could materially harm our business.. A substantial majority of our revenue is generated from sales to a limited number of direct customers, including distributors, contractors, OEMs, partners and end-use customers. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, total revenue from our top ten direct customers represented 69%, 67% and 64% of our revenues, respectively. Distribution International, Inc. and TechnipFMC represented 15% and 12% of our total revenue in 2017, respectively, Reliance Industries Limited and Distribution International, Inc. represented 25% and 12% of our total revenue in 2016, respectively; and Reliance Industries Limited and Distribution International, Inc. represented 14% and 12% of our total revenue in 2015, respectively. Although the composition of our significant distributors, contractors, OEMs, partners and end-use customers will vary from period to period, we expect that most of our revenues will continue, for the foreseeable future, to come from sales to a relatively small number of direct customers. In addition, we understand from our direct customers that a substantial majority of their sales of our products are to a small number of end-use customers.. Our direct customer concentration also creates accounts receivable concentrations and related risks. As of December 31, 2017, Reliance Industries Limited, Distribution International, Inc. and Qualiman Engenharia accounted for 19%, 14% and 11% of our accounts receivable, respectively.. The substantial majority of our sales to distributors are transacted on a purchase order basis. The contracts we enter into with our direct customers generally do not include long-term commitments or minimum volumes that ensure future sales of our products. In addition, we understand that our direct customers' contracts with end-use customers also generally do not include such commitments or minimums. Consequently, our results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period-to-period based on the actions of one or more significant direct customers or end-use customers.. A direct customer may take actions that affect us for reasons that we cannot anticipate or control, such as reasons related to an end-use customer's financial condition, changes in business strategy or operations, the introduction of alternative competing products, or as the result of the perceived quality or cost-effectiveness of our products. Our agreements with these direct customers may be cancelled if we fail to meet certain product specifications or materially breach the agreement or for other reasons outside of our control. In addition, our direct customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of current agreements or renewals. The loss of, or a reduction in sales or anticipated sales to, one or more of our significant direct customers or end-use customers or several of our smaller direct customers or end-use customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we are unable to maintain our technological advantage over our competitors, our business may be materially adversely affected.. We research, develop, manufacture and sell high-performance aerogel insulation products. Rapid and ongoing changes in technology and product standards could quickly render our products less competitive, or even obsolete, particularly if we fail to continue to improve the performance of our insulation products. We are currently developing new applications for our existing products as well as new aerogel technologies; however, we may not be successful in doing so and new applications or technologies. 23. may not be commercially useful. Other companies that are seeking to enhance traditional insulation materials have recently introduced or are developing other emerging insulation technologies. These competitors are engaged in significant development work on these various insulation products. Competing technologies that outperform our insulation in one or more performance attributes could be developed and successfully introduced.. We are also aware of certain companies, including Guangdong Alison Hi-Tech Co, Ltd and Nano Tech Co, Ltd, that have developed or are developing products using aerogel technology similar to our technology and these or other companies have introduced or could introduce aerogel products that compete directly with our products and could in the future outperform them in one or more performance attributes, could be offered to our customers as a cheaper alternative to our products or may result in pricing pressure on us. As a result of this increasing current competition and potential future competition, our products may not compete effectively in our target markets.. Negative perceptions regarding the safety, quality or other attributes of our products or a failure or a perceived failure of our products could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and could make us unable to continue our business.. Given the history of asbestos as an insulation material, we believe that there is an elevated level of attention towards perceived health and safety risks in the insulation industry. As a consequence, it is essential to our existing business and to our future growth that our products are considered safe. Even modest perceptions by existing or potential distributors, contractors or end-use customers in our target markets that our products are not safe could have a critical impact on our ability to sell our products and to continue as a business. Further, our competitors have in the past, and may in the future, seek to create or perpetuate such perceptions. There is risk of an actual or perceived failure of our products or other negative perceptions regarding our products, such as perceived health hazards. For example, dust is produced by our products during their installation and use, which increases the likelihood of the perception of a hazard. Another example is the potential in very high temperature applications for material failure. Like most insulation products, our Pyrogel XT and XT-E products will normally go through a controlled burn-in process immediately after exposure to high temperatures. If installed improperly, the burn-in may proceed too rapidly and the material may become damaged. In addition, the thermal performance of our materials may degrade over time due to a variety of operational or environmental conditions. We take steps to educate our distributors, contractors, OEMs and end-use customers on the nature of our products and the proper installation and operating procedures in order to mitigate these risks. Such an event, or the perception of such an event, could quickly result in our direct and end-use customers replacing our products with traditional insulation materials which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our activities and operations are subject to numerous health and safety laws and regulations. If we violate such regulations, we could face penalties and fines or be required to curtail or cease operations.. We are subject to numerous health and safety laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. These health and safety laws and regulations apply to us including with regard to hazardous substances that we use in our manufacturing process and that certain of our products contain. These substances include titanium dioxide, iron oxide, ethanol and carbon black, each of which has been determined, in certain forms, with certain contaminants and at certain levels, to be hazardous, possibly carcinogenic or otherwise harmful to humans. We may also consider and adopt the use of other hazardous substances or substances potentially containing hazardous contaminants, with similar or higher risks in connection with new products or modifications to our current products and related manufacturing.. Our processes also require the use of other regulated substances in raw material delivery and manufacturing, including among others, ethanol. Applicable laws and regulations require us to obtain and maintain permits and approvals and implement health and safety programs and procedures to control risks associated with our operations. Compliance with those laws and regulations can require us to incur substantial costs. Moreover, if our compliance programs are not successful, we could be subject to penalties or to revocation of our permits, which may require us to curtail or cease operations of the affected facilities. In particular, the construction of our second manufacturing facility will require us to obtain and maintain new permits from various regulatory authorities and if the issuance of such permits is delayed or denied, it would slow or potentially prevent the expansion of our manufacturing capacity. Violations of laws, regulations and permit requirements may also result in criminal sanctions, injunctions and the denial or revocation of our various permits.. While we use hazardous substances, including titanium dioxide and carbon black, in forms and at levels that are subject to current rules and regulations, such rules and regulations may become more stringent such that we are required to modify our manufacturing process and such that our customers' use of our products may be impacted. Changes in the products or manufacturing processes may require the customers to perform an extensive re-qualification process, which our customers may not want to undertake for various reasons, resulting in the customer switching to competing products. In addition, changes in our production or manufacturing process may result in uses above currently permitted levels. Such uses or changes in rules or regulations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 24. Health and safety laws, regulations and permit requirements may become more stringent or otherwise change. Any such changes could require us to incur materially higher costs than we currently have. Our costs of complying with current and future health and safety laws, regulations and permit requirements, and any liabilities, fines or other sanctions resulting from violations of them, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may face certain product liability or warranty claims on our products, including from improper installation of our products by third parties. As a consequence, we could lose existing and future business and our ability to develop, market and sell our insulation could be harmed.. The design, development, production and sale of our products involve an inherent risk of product liability claims and associated adverse publicity. We may be named directly in product liability suits relating to our products, even for defects resulting from errors of our distributors, contractors, OEMs, partners or end-use customers. These claims could be brought by various parties, including distributors, contactors, OEMs, partners and other direct end-use customers who are purchasing products directly from us, or end-use customers who purchase our products from our distributors. We could also be named as co-parties in product liability suits that are brought against the distributors, contractors, OEMs, partners and end-use customers. Our products are often installed in our end-use customers' complex and capital intensive facilities in inherently hazardous or dangerous environments, including in the energy, petrochemical and power generation industries, where the potential liability from risk of loss could be substantial. The failure of our products to perform to customer expectations, whether or not because of improper installation, could give rise to warranty claims against us. We take steps to educate our distributors, contractors, OEMs, partners and end-use customers about the proper installation procedures to mitigate the risk of an uncontrolled burn-in for very high temperature applications of Pyrogel XT and XT-E. However, installation of our products is handled by third parties over whom we have no control and errors or defects in their installation may also give rise to claims against us, diminish our brand or divert our resources from other purposes. Any of these claims, even if without merit, could result in costly litigation or divert management's attention and resources. In addition, many of our products are integrated into the final products of our customers. The integration of our products may entail the risk of product liability or warranty claims based on malfunctions or hazards from both our products and the final products of our customers.. A material product liability claim may seriously harm our results of operations, as well as damage our customer relationships and reputation. Although we carry general liability insurance, our current insurance coverage could be insufficient to protect us from all liability that may be imposed under these types of claims. Insurance coverage is expensive, may be difficult to obtain and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms or at all. Our distributors, contractors, OEMs, partners and end-use customers may not have adequate insurance to cover against potential claims. This insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential losses, and if claims or losses exceed our liability insurance coverage, we may go out of business. In addition, insurance coverage may become more expensive, which would harm our results of operations.. We may incur significant costs complying with environmental, health and safety laws and related claims, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to significant liabilities, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations.. Costs of compliance with regional, national, state and local existing and future environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations. We are required to comply with numerous environmental laws and regulations and to obtain numerous governmental permits in order to operate our facilities and in connection with the design, development, manufacture and transport of our products and the storage, use, handling and disposal of hazardous substances, including environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and permits governing air emissions. We may incur significant additional costs to comply with these requirements. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could be subject to civil or criminal liability, damages and fines, and our operations could be curtailed, suspended or shutdown. In addition, certain foreign laws and regulations may affect our ability to export products outside of the United States. Existing environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could be revised or reinterpreted and new laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to us or our products, and future changes in environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could occur. These factors may materially increase the amount we must invest to bring our processes into compliance and impose additional expense on our operations.. Among the changes to environmental laws and regulations that could occur is the adoption of regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which a number of countries, particularly in the European Union, have adopted, or are considering adopting, including the 2015 Paris Agreement on climate change. These include adoption of cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, restrictive permitting, increased efficiency standards, and incentives or mandates for renewable energy, any of which could increase the costs of manufacturing our products and increase our compliance costs, which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.. In addition, private lawsuits, including claims for remediation of contamination, personal injury or property damage, or actions by regional, national, state and local regulatory agencies, including enforcement or cost-recovery actions, may materially increase our. 25. costs. Certain environmental laws make us potentially liable on a joint and several basis for the remediation of contamination at or emanating from properties or facilities that we currently or formerly owned or operated or properties to which we arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances. Such liability may require us to pay more than our fair share and could require us to address contamination caused by others. For example, the site of our East Providence facility contains certain levels of contamination caused by prior third-party activities on and near the site. Such contamination remains in place under a state-approved deed restriction, and we are required to comply with such deed restriction and the accompanying soil management plan. In general, the deed restriction prohibits the residential use of the property and the use of groundwater as potable water, and requires the maintenance of engineering controls and annual inspections to help prevent exposure to contaminated soils. The soil management plan requires us to notify the state environmental agency with respect to any soil excavation, stockpiling, sampling and off-site disposal of excavated soil. Although we have not had to make material expenditures to satisfy these requirements to date, in the future, we may incur additional costs to comply with these requirements and failure to do so could disrupt the operation of our facility or could subject us to liability for environmental remediation. We may incur liability relating to the remediation of contamination, including contamination we did not cause. Furthermore, ethanol, one of the materials that we handle in large quantities in our manufacturing process is subject to additional laws and regulations including those administered by the U.S. Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau. While we seek to comply with the stringent requirements of these laws and regulations, these laws and regulations are complex and are subject to interpretation. Any changes in these laws or regulations or changes in our manufacturing processes may require us to request changes to our existing permits or obtain new permits. Any requests to change our existing permits or obtain new permits may be delayed or denied and may require us to modify our manufacturing processes, which could be costly and time consuming and could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We may not be able to obtain or maintain, from time to time, all required environmental regulatory approvals. A delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approvals or failure to obtain and comply with them could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Failure by us to develop, maintain and strengthen strategic relationships with industry leaders to commercialize our products, particularly in the building materials market, may adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to grow our business.. Our business strategy requires us to align the design and performance attributes of our products to the evolving needs of the market. To facilitate this process, we have sought out partnerships and relationships with industry leaders in order to assist in the development and commercialization of our products. We face competition from other manufacturers of insulation in seeking out and entering into such partnerships and relationships with industry leaders in our target markets and we may therefore not be successful in establishing strategic relationships in those markets.. In the building materials market, we have entered into a supply agreement and a side agreement (together, the supply agreement) with BASF Polyeurathanes GmbH (BASF) and a joint development agreement with BASF SE. Pursuant to the supply agreement, we will sell exclusively to BASF our Spaceloft A2 product at annual volumes to be specified by BASF, subject to certain volume limits. The joint development agreement is designed to facilitate the collaboration between the parties on the development and commercialization of new products.. In addition to the customary terms associated with supply agreements, in support of our capacity expansion plan, process optimization projects, and research and development activities, BASF, in its sole discretion, may make advances, or prepayments, to us in the aggregate amount of up to $22 million during the term of the Supply Agreement. BASF has agreed to make a prepayment in the amount of $5 million to us in two installments in 2018. We have secured our obligation to repay the prepayment with a first priority security interest in real estate, machinery and equipment located at our existing manufacturing facility in East Providence, Rhode Island. Additionally, we have granted non-exclusive licenses to our subsidiaries under our intellectual property as necessary to operate such machinery and equipment.. After January 1, 2019, we will credit 25.3% of any amounts that we invoice for Spaceloft A2 product sold to BASF against the outstanding balance of the 2018 prepayment, if any, with such credits limited to a specified annual amount. BASF has no obligation to purchase Product under the supply agreement. If any of the 2018 prepayment remains uncredited as of December 31, 2021, BASF may request that we repay the uncredited amount to BASF. The amounts and terms of additional prepayment installments, if any, are subject to further negotiation between us and BASF.. Although BASF has placed orders for product under the supply agreement, there can be no assurance that BASF will ever be a significant customer for our products. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we or BASF will be able to perform under the supply agreement or the joint development agreement or achieve our or its respective goals with respect to the supply agreement, the joint development agreement or the broader relationship between us and BASF. In addition, our grant of a security interest to BASF may make it more difficult for us to pledge our assets to secure other obligations, including to potential lenders, and as a result may impede our ability to incur additional indebtedness in the future.. 26. In the event that we are unable to develop products that meet market needs or maintain our relationship with BASF, we may be required to find less prominent partners in the building materials market and we may be less able or unable to successfully penetrate that market. As a result of any of the above, we may lessen or lose our ability to grow our business in the building materials market which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, including impairing our profitability.. We have entered into and may enter into future agreements that may limit our ability to broadly market our products or could involve future obligations, which could make it more difficult for us to commercialize certain of our products and negatively affect our business and results of operations.. We have a joint development agreement with BASF to develop products in the building materials market. In order to develop and commercialize our products, we may enter into additional joint development agreements or commercial arrangements. We cannot be certain that any products will be successfully developed under any such agreement or, even if developed, that they will be successfully produced or commercialized. These agreements may contain exclusivity, ownership and other terms that may limit our ability to commercialize any products or technology developed in connection with such agreements, including in ways that we do not envision at the time of entering into the agreement. In addition, these agreements may not obligate either party to make any purchases and may contain technical specifications that must be achieved to the satisfaction of our partner, which we cannot be certain we will be able to achieve. If our ability to commercialize products or technology developed in connection with these agreements is limited or if we fail to achieve the technical specifications that may be required, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. If we do not continue to develop and maintain distribution channels for our products and to meet our customers' demand for our products, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. For a significant portion of our revenues, we rely on sales to distributors who then sell our products to end-users in our target markets. Our success depends, in part, on our maintaining satisfactory relationships with these distributors. Our distributors require us to meet expectations of delivery, quality and pricing of our products, at both the distribution channel level and at the level of the end-user of our products. If we fail to meet expected standards, our revenues would decline and this could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we have been unable at times to produce sufficient amounts of our products to meet demand from our customers and we may not be able to avoid capacity constraints in the future if demand exceeds our expectations or we fail to expand the capacity of our existing East Providence, Rhode Island manufacturing facility or bring into operation as planned the second manufacturing facility to be located in Statesboro, Georgia. If we are unable to deliver our products within such short timeframes, we may be at risk of losing direct or end-use customers. Accordingly, shortfalls in sales could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.. The qualification process for our products can be lengthy and unpredictable, potentially delaying adoption of our products and causing us to incur significant expense potentially without recovery.. Qualification of our products by many of our direct and end-use customers can be lengthy and unpredictable and many of these direct and end-use customers have extended budgeting and procurement processes. This extended sales process requires the dedication of significant time by our personnel and our use of significant financial resources, with no certainty of success or recovery of our related expenses. Furthermore, even after an extensive qualification process, our products may fail to meet the standards sought by our end-use customers and may not be qualified for use by such end-use customers. Additionally, our continued process improvements and cost-reduction efforts may require us or the end-users to re-qualify our products. Failure to qualify or re-qualify our products may result in us losing such companies as end-users of our products, which would cause a decrease in our revenue or revenue growth rate either of which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our revenue may fluctuate, which may result in a high degree of variability in our results of operations and make it difficult for us to plan based on our future outlook and to forecast our future performance.. Our revenue may fluctuate from period to period due to a wide variety of factors. Since we rely on sales to a limited number of direct customers and end-use customers, changes in demand from one or more direct customers or end-users can significantly impact our revenue from period to period. In addition, the sales cycles for our products, including their qualification for use, are long and can result in unpredictability in our revenues. We expect to have an increasing percentage of our products sold for use in capital projects, which orders tend to be larger and more sporadic, that will further increase this unpredictability and the difficulty for us in forecasting quarterly or annual performance. Because of these factors, we have a limited basis on which to predict our quarterly revenue. Our profitability from period-to-period may also vary due to the mix of products that we sell in different periods. These factors may result in a high degree of variability in our results of operations and will make it difficult for us to accurately evaluate and plan based on our future outlook and to forecast quarterly or annual performance.. 27. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if our operating expenses incurred do not correspond with the timing of our revenues.. Most of our operating expenses, such as manufacturing facility expenses, employee compensation and research expenses, are either relatively fixed in the short-term or incurred in advance of sales. In addition, our spending levels are based in part on our expectations regarding future revenues. As a result, if revenues for a particular quarter are below expectations, we may not be able to proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter. Our reliance on sales to a limited number of direct customers and end-use customers, the length of our sales cycles and the potentially increasing percentage of our products sold for use in capital projects each can cause sporadic demand for our products which would limit our ability to predict future sales. This limitation could result in our being unable to reduce spending quickly enough to compensate for reductions in sales and could therefore adversely affect our results of operations for any particular operating period.. We are exposed to the credit risk of some of our direct customers, including distributors, contractors and OEMs, which subjects us to the risk of non-payment for our products.. We distribute our products through a network of distributors, contractors and OEMs, some of which may not be well-capitalized and may be of a lower credit quality. This direct customer network subjects us to the risk of non-payment for our products. During 2017, we wrote off $0.5 million in accounts receivable due to non-payment of amounts due by a single customer. In addition, during periods of economic downturn in the global economy, our exposure to credit risks from our direct customers may increase, and our efforts to monitor and mitigate the associated risks may not be effective. In the event of non-payment by one or more of our direct customers, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Our working capital requirements involve estimates based on demand and production expectations and may decrease or increase beyond those currently anticipated, which could materially harm our results of operations and financial condition.. In order to fulfill the product delivery requirements of our direct and end-use customers, we plan for working capital needs in advance of customer orders. As a result, we base our funding and inventory decisions on estimates of future demand. If demand for our products does not increase as quickly as we have estimated or drops off sharply, our inventory and expenses could rise, and our business and results of operations could suffer. Alternatively, if we experience sales in excess of our estimates, our working capital needs may be higher than those currently anticipated. Our ability to meet this excess customer demand depends on our ability to arrange for additional financing for any ongoing working capital shortages, since it is likely that cash flow from sales will lag behind these investment requirements. In addition, we plan to increase our inventory in the longer term in order to meet our expected future demand. This would result in an increase in our working capital requirements that could harm our results of operations and financial condition.. Breakdowns, security breaches, loss of data and other disruptions of our information technology systems could compromise sensitive information related to our business, prevent us from accessing critical information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our suppliers, customers and business partners, and personally identifiable information about our employees. We manage and maintain our applications and data utilizing on-site and off-site systems. These applications and data encompass a wide variety of business critical information including research and development information, commercial information and business and financial information.. The secure processing, storage, maintenance and transmission of this critical information is vital to our operations and business strategy, and we devote resources to protecting such information. Although we take measures to protect sensitive information from unauthorized access or disclosure, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to breakdowns, attacks by hackers, viruses, breaches or interruptions due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions, or lapses in compliance with privacy and security mandates. Any such virus, breakdown, attack, breach or interruption could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed by unauthorized parties, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. We have measures in place that are designed to detect and respond to such security incidents and breaches of privacy and security mandates, but there can be no assurance that our management or diligence efforts will prevent such breakdowns or breaches in our systems. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information or other laws, government enforcement actions and regulatory penalties. Unauthorized access, loss or dissemination could also disrupt our operations, customer support services, research and development activities, capture of company financial information, various general and administrative aspects of our business and damage our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our business.. 28. Our contracts with U.S. government agencies may subject us to audits, criminal penalties, sanctions and other expenses and fines.. We perform contract research services for U.S. government agencies and our products are sold to customers that may incorporate them into government projects. U.S. government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency and the Department of Labor, routinely audit government contractors. These agencies review a contractor's compliance with contract terms and conditions, performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. The U.S. government also may review the adequacy of a contractor's systems and policies, including a contractor's purchasing, property, estimating, billing, accounting, compensation and management information systems. Any costs found to be overcharged or improperly allocated to a specific contract or any amounts improperly billed or charged for products or services will be subject to reimbursement to the government. As a government contractor, we are required to disclose to the U.S. government credible evidence of certain violations of law and contract overpayments. If we are found to have participated in improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government. Any negative publicity related to such contracts, regardless of the accuracy of such publicity, may adversely affect our business or reputation.. Our contracts with U.S. government agencies may not be funded by future appropriations and are subject to modification or termination at any time prior to their completion.. Our contracts with U.S. government agencies are subject to the availability of appropriated funds. The U.S. government funds our contract research work through a variety of funding programs that rely on monies appropriated by Congress. At any point, the availability of funding could change, thus reducing the opportunities for new or continued revenues to us from government contract work. Revenue from contracts with U.S. government agencies constituted 2% of our total revenue in each of 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We expect that our revenue under such contracts will decline due to the recent trend toward tightening of federal spending guidelines and programs.. In addition, under our contracts, the U.S. government generally has the right not to exercise options to extend or expand our contracts and may modify, curtail or terminate the contracts at its convenience. Our government customers may not renew our existing contracts after the conclusion of their terms and we may not be able to enter into new contracts with U.S. government agencies. Any decision by the U.S. government not to exercise contract options or to modify, curtail or terminate our contracts or not to renew our contracts or enter into new contracts with us would adversely affect our revenues.. Our revolving credit facility contains financial and operating restrictions that may limit our access to credit. In addition, our revolving credit facility expires on April 28, 2018 and we may not be able to renew, extend or replace the expiring facility. If we fail to comply with covenants in our revolving credit facility or if facility is terminated, we may be required to repay our indebtedness thereunder, which may have an adverse effect on our liquidity.. Provisions governing our revolving credit facility impose restrictions on our ability to operate, including, for some of the agreements and instruments, but not for others, our ability to:. •  incur capital expenditures;. •  incur additional debt;. •  pay dividends and make distributions;. •  redeem or repurchase capital stock;. •  create liens;. •  enter into transactions with affiliates; and. •  merge or consolidate with or into other entities.. Our revolving credit facility also contains other customary covenants. We may not be able to comply with these covenants in the future. Our failure to comply with these covenants may result in the declaration of an event of default and could cause us to be unable to borrow funds under our revolving credit facility. In addition to preventing additional borrowings under our revolving credit facility, an event of default, if not cured or waived, may result in the acceleration of the maturity of indebtedness outstanding under the revolving credit facility, which would require us to pay all amounts outstanding. Such an event may also lead our lender to exercise its security interest in our assets, including all of our real property and equipment at our East Providence facility. If an event of default occurs, we may not be able to cure it within any applicable cure period, if at all. If the maturity of our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available for repayment or we may not have the ability to borrow or obtain sufficient funds to replace the accelerated indebtedness on terms acceptable to us, or at all.. 29. If we lose key personnel upon whom we are dependent, or if we are unable to successfully recruit and retain skilled employees, we may not be able to manage our operations and meet our strategic objectives.. Our continued success depends to a considerable degree upon the continued services of a small number of our employees with critical knowledge of our products, our manufacturing process, our intellectual property, our customers and our global operations. The loss or unavailability of any of these individuals could harm our ability to execute our business plan, maintain important business relationships and complete certain product development initiatives, which could harm our business. In the event that any of these key individuals leave their employment with us or take new employment with a competitor, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, our continued success depends upon the availability, contributions, vision, skills, experience and effort of our senior management, financial, sales and marketing, engineering and production teams. We do not maintain \"key person\" insurance on any of our employees. We have entered into employment agreements with certain members of our senior management team, but none of these agreements guarantee the services of the individual for a specified period of time. All of the agreements with members of our senior management team provide that employment is at-will and may be terminated by the employee at any time and without notice.. Although we do not have any reason to believe that we may lose the services of any our employees with critical knowledge of our products, our manufacturing processes, our customers and our global operations or any of our senior management, financial, sales and marketing, engineering and production teams in the foreseeable future, the loss of the services of any of these individuals might impede our operations or the achievement of our strategic and financial objectives. The loss or interruption of the service of any of these individuals or our inability to attract or retain other qualified personnel or advisors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could significantly reduce our ability to manage our operations and implement our strategy.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards may be subject to limitation, which could result in a higher effective tax rate and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. During 2014, we performed analyses pursuant to Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Internal Revenue Code, as well as similar state provisions, in order to determine whether any limitations might exist on the utilization of net operating losses and other tax attributes. Generally, a change of more than 50% in the ownership of a company's stock, by value, over a three year period constitutes an ownership change for U.S. federal income tax purposes. An ownership change may limit a company's ability to use its net operating loss carryforwards attributable to the period prior to such change. Based on these analyses, we determined that it is more likely than not that an ownership change occurred on June 18, 2014 upon the closing of our IPO, resulting in an annual limitation on the use of our net operating losses and other tax attributes as of such date. As a result, our prior net operating losses were limited to $155.2 million, including built-in gains of $42.0 million at the date of that ownership change. The use of our net operating loss carryforwards may be restricted further in the event of any future changes in our ownership.. We may not be able to successfully develop and introduce new products in a timely manner at competitive prices, which would limit our ability to grow and maintain our competitive position and could adversely affect our financial conditions, results of operations and cash flow.. Our growth depends, in part, on continued sales of existing products, including by improving the performance of existing products, as well as the successful development and introduction of new products, which face the uncertainty of customer acceptance and reaction from competitors. New product development requires considerable resources and attention that may shift our focus from and may disrupt our current operations, given that we have fewer resources than many of our competitors. We may not be able to sustainably manufacture new products with attractive margins and we may experience higher yield losses than expected. Any delay in the development or launch of a new product could result in our not being the first to market, which could compromise our competitive position. Even if we manage to develop and introduce new products, such products may not address market needs or otherwise compete with third party products. Even if our new products are adopted by the market, we may not achieve the growth in revenue that we expect from such new products and our investment in these efforts may not be proportional to our expected or actual revenue growth. If we are unable to develop and introduce new products in a cost-effective manner or otherwise manage effectively the operations related to new products, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights could negatively affect our business and results of operations.. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part upon developing, maintaining and/or protecting intellectual property rights relevant to our aerogel product forms, applications, manufacturing technologies and brand names. We rely principally on a combination of patent protection, trade secret laws, confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements, trademark registrations, common. 30. law rights and licensing arrangements to establish and protect the intellectual property rights relevant to our business. However, these measures may not be adequate in every given case to permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage, particularly in those countries where the laws do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as or where the enforcement tools are weaker or less effective than those in the United States. In particular, since aerogels were developed approximately 80 years ago, there has been a wide range of research, development and publication related to aerogels, which makes it difficult to establish intellectual property rights to many key elements of aerogel technology and to obtain patent protection. Accordingly, much of the general technology that we use in our manufacture of aerogel blankets is not protected by patents.. Where we consider it appropriate, our strategy is to seek patent protection in the United States and other countries on technologies used in or relating to our aerogel product forms, applications and manufacturing technologies. As of December 31, 2017, we had 39 issued U.S. patents and 68 issued foreign patents, including three U.S. patents and 18 foreign patents that we co-own with third parties. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its scope, validity or enforceability. Thus, any patent held by us or to be issued to us from a pending patent application, could be challenged, invalidated or held unenforceable in litigation or proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, and/or other patent tribunals. Third parties could develop technologies that circumvent the patent protection we have secured. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of patent claims has emerged to date in the United States and the landscape could become more uncertain in view of future rule changes by the USPTO, the introduction of patent reform legislation and decisions in patent law cases by the federal courts including the United States Supreme Court.. The patent landscape outside the United States is even less predictable. As a result, the validity and enforceability of patents cannot be predicted with certainty. For example, we are aware of competitors that manufacture and market aerogel insulation products in China, where it may be difficult for us to enforce our intellectual property rights against these or other competitors. In May 2016, we filed a complaint for patent infringement against Nano Tech Co., Ltd. (Nano) and Guangdong Alison Hi-Tech., Ltd., (Alison) which we refer to collectively as the Respondents, in the United States International Trade Commission, or ITC. In addition to Respondents' contention at the ITC that the patents we asserted there are invalid, Alison also filed petitions with United States Patent and Trademark Office requesting Inter-Partes Review to cancel certain claims in three of our manufacturing process patents and a product patent. A three-member panel of Administrative Patent Judges at the USPTO denied all of Alison's petitions to institute Inter-Partes Review challenging the validity of Aspen patents. Alison also filed similar requests with the Chinese Patent Office (SIPO) seeking to invalidate two of our Chinese manufacturing process patents and two of our Chinese product patents. After the conclusion of the oral proceedings and before any decision issued by the SIPO, Alison withdrew all of its requests for invalidation of our Chinese patents. In September 2017, the Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) presiding over the ITC investigation issued an Initial Determination finding that Alison and Nano infringed our patents relating to aerogel insulation and/or methods of manufacturing aerogel insulation. As part of the Initial Determination, the ALJ found that Alison and Nano infringed all of the patent claims asserted against each of them across the three asserted patents, and that Alison and Nano failed to prove that the asserted claims were invalid. The ALJ also recommended a limited exclusion order as a remedy to prevent the importation of infringing aerogel products manufactured by Respondents into the United States. In February 2018, the ITC issued its final determination confirming the ALJ's infringement and validity determinations except with respect to one dependent product claim where the ITC found that the claim was not infringed. The ITC also revised some of the ALJ's claim constructions. In addition, the ITC issued a limited exclusion order prohibiting importation of infringing aerogel insulation products manufactured by Alison and Nano. The Respondents may appeal the final determination to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.. We also filed a patent infringement suit in April 2016 at the District Court in Mannheim, Germany against the Respondents and two European distributors. During 2016, we settled with one European distributor in exchange for a commitment not to procure infringing products and cooperation with our case. In January 2018, the court issued a series of judgments by acknowledgement (German, Anerkenntnisurteil) finding the second reseller, Hiltex Techniche Weefsels b.v. (Hiltex), liable for infringement and also issued injunctions against Hiltex. The judgments resulted from a settlement agreement in which Hiltex agreed not to resell infringing products in Europe where at least one of the asserted patents are active. Nano initiated nullity actions in German Federal Court against three of our manufacturing process patents in Germany. Alison likewise filed an opposition to one of the asserted patents at the European Patent Office (\"EPO\") and also initiated nullity action against two other patents. Nano also filed an opposition against the same patent at the EPO. The litigation against the defendants, Alison and Nano, is ongoing. See \"Risk Factors  - We have initiated intellectual property litigation that will be costly, and could limit or invalidate our intellectual property rights, divert time and efforts away from business operations, require us to pay damages and/or costs and expenses and/or otherwise have an adverse material impact on our business, and we could become subject to additional intellectual property litigation in the future\" below.. In addition, we may fail to apply for patents on important technologies or innovative products in a timely fashion, if at all, and our existing and future patents may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products or technologies, in particular given the long history of aerogel development. Furthermore, third parties could practice our intellectual property rights in territories where we do not have patent protection. Such third parties may then try to import products made using our intellectual property rights into the United States or other countries. Our strategy is to seek registration of trademarks for our brands in many, but not all, of the jurisdictions in which we sell our products based on various factors, including. 31. our sales volumes in the jurisdiction, our ability to enforce local laws and cost. Our strategy may not be adequate to protect our brands in all circumstances, especially in foreign jurisdictions.. As of December 31, 2017, we had 23 pending U.S. patent applications and 71 pending foreign patent applications, including one pending U.S. patent application and three foreign pending patent applications that we co-own with other third parties. Our pending patent applications are directed to various enabling technologies for the product forms, applications and manufacturing technologies that support our current business, as well as aspects of products under development or contemplated for the future. The issuance of patents from these applications involves complex legal and factual questions and, thus, we cannot provide assurance that any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents to us. The USPTO, relevant foreign patent offices and other relevant patent tribunals may deny or require significant narrowing of claims in our pending patent applications. Patents issued as a result of any of our pending patent applications may not cover our enabling technology and/or the products or processes that support our current or future business or afford us with significant commercial protection against others with similar technology. Proceedings before the USPTO could result in adverse decisions as to the priority of our inventions and the narrowing or invalidation of claims in issued patents. In addition, our pending patent applications filed in foreign countries are subject to laws, rules and procedures that differ from those of the United States, and thus foreign patent applications may not be granted even if counterpart United States patents are issued.. We have initiated intellectual property litigation that is and will continue to be costly, and could limit or invalidate our intellectual property rights, divert time and efforts away from business operations, require us to pay damages and/or costs and expenses and/or otherwise have an material adverse impact on our business, and we could become subject to additional such intellectual property litigation in the future.. The success of our business is highly dependent on protecting our intellectual property rights. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products and/or enabling technology. Policing the unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights is difficult and expensive, as is enforcing these rights against unauthorized use by others. Identifying unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights is difficult because we may be unable to monitor the technologies and/or materials being employed by other parties. The steps we have taken or will take may not prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights, particularly in foreign countries where enforcement of intellectual property rights may be more difficult than in the United States.. In May 2016, we filed a complaint for patent infringement against Nano Tech Co., Ltd. and Guangdong Alison Hi-Tech., Ltd., which we refer to collectively as the Respondents, in the United States International Trade Commission. The ITC complaint alleged that these two China-based companies have engaged and are engaging in unfair trade practices by importing and selling aerogel products in the United States that infringe, and/or are manufactured by processes that infringe, several of our patents. In the ITC complaint, we sought exclusion orders from the ITC that direct the United States Customs and Border Protection to stop the importation of infringing products. In June 2016, the ITC instituted an investigation based on our complaint. In September 2017, the Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) presiding over the ITC investigation issued an Initial Determination finding that Alison and Nano infringed three of our patents relating to aerogel insulation and/or methods of manufacturing aerogel insulation. As part of the Initial Determination, the ALJ found that Alison and Nano infringed all the patent claims asserted against each of them and that Alison and Nano failed to prove that the asserted claims were invalid. The ALJ also recommended a limited exclusion order as a remedy to prevent the importation of infringing aerogel products into the United States. In February 2018, the ITC issued its final determination confirming the ALJ's infringement and validity determinations except with respect to one dependent product claim where the ITC found that the claim was not infringed. The ITC also revised some of the ALJ's claim construction. In addition, the ITC issued a limited exclusion order prohibiting importation of infringing aerogel insulation products manufactured by Alison and Nano. The Respondents may appeal the final determination to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.. In addition to Respondents' contention at the ITC that the patents we asserted there are invalid, Alison also filed petitions with USPTO requesting Inter-Partes Review to cancel certain claims in three of Aspen's manufacturing process patents and one product patent. A three-member panel of Administrative Patent Judges at the USPTO denied all of Alison's petitions to institute Inter-Partes Review challenging the validity of these Aspen patents. Alison also filed similar requests with the Chinese Patent Office (\"SIPO\") seeking to invalidate two of our Chinese manufacturing process patents and two of our Chinese product patents. After the conclusion of the oral proceedings and before any decision issued by the SIPO, Alison withdrew all of its requests for invalidation of our Chinese patents.. We also filed a patent infringement suit in April 2016 at the District Court in Mannheim, Germany against the Respondents and two European distributors. During 2016, we settled with one of the European distributors in exchange for a commitment not to procure infringing products and cooperation with our case. In January 2018, the court issued a series of judgments by acknowledgement (German, Anerkenntnisurteil) finding the second reseller, Hiltex Techniche Weefsels b.v. (Hiltex), liable for infringement and also issued injunctions against Hiltex. The judgments resulted from a settlement agreement in which Hiltex agreed not to resell infringing products in Europe where at least one of the asserted patents are active. The litigation against Nano and Alison remains ongoing. Nano. 32. has initiated nullity actions in German Federal Court against three of our manufacturing process patents in Germany. Alison likewise filed an opposition to one of the asserted patents at the European Patent Office (EPO) and also initiated nullity action against two other patents. Nano also filed an opposition against the same patent at the EPO. As Alison and Nano have already sought to invalidate our patents in various jurisdictions, we expect defendants to bring similar actions in additional jurisdictions or against additional patents and that we will incur additional costs to defend such actions. Due to their nature, it is difficult to predict the outcome or the costs involved in any litigation or administrative proceeding. Furthermore, the defendants may have significant resources and interest to litigate and, therefore, this litigation could be protracted and may ultimately involve significant legal expenses.. Our continued commercial success will also depend in part upon not infringing the patents or violating other intellectual property rights of third parties. We are aware of patents and patent applications generally relating to aspects of our technologies filed by, and issued to, third parties. Our knowledge of the patent landscape with respect to the technologies currently embodied within our aerogel products and the technologies that we practice in manufacturing those products indicates that the third-party patent rights most relevant to our business are those owned by Cabot and licensed to us under the cross license agreement with Cabot. Nevertheless, we cannot determine with certainty whether patents or patent applications of other parties may materially affect our ability to conduct our business. There may be existing patents of which we are unaware that we may inadvertently infringe, resulting in claims against us or our customers. In recent years, Chinese, Japanese and South Korean entities have filed a significant number of patent applications related to aerogel products in both their home countries and in foreign countries. These patents in application areas of aerogels may make it more difficult for OEMs and end-use customers in these countries to use our products in new and different applications, which in turn may limit our ability to penetrate new markets.. In the event that the manufacture, use and/or sale of our products or technologies is challenged, or if our product forms or technologies conflict with patent rights of others or our operations conflict with trademark or similar rights of others, third parties could bring legal actions against us in the United States, Europe or other countries, claiming damages and seeking to enjoin the manufacturing and/or marketing of our products. In addition, it is not possible to predict with certainty what patent claims may arise from pending patent applications of third parties. In the United States, for example, patent prosecution can proceed in secret prior to issuance of a patent, provided such application is not filed in a foreign jurisdiction. For U.S. patent applications that are also filed in foreign jurisdictions, such patent applications will not be published until 18 months from the filing date of the application. As a result, third parties may be able to obtain patents with claims relating to our product forms, applications and/or manufacturing processes which they could attempt to assert against us or our end-users.. In the case of any of the above, litigation may be necessary to enforce, protect or defend our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the intellectual property rights of others. Any such litigation, including our ongoing patent enforcement actions described above, could be unsuccessful, cause us to incur substantial costs, divert resources and the efforts of our personnel away from daily operations, harm our reputation and/or result in the impairment of our intellectual property rights. In some cases, litigation may be threatened or brought by a patent holding company (otherwise known as non-practicing entities or patent \"trolls\") or other adverse patent owner who has no relevant product revenues and against which our patents may provide little or no deterrence. If we are found to infringe any patents, regardless of whether litigation is brought against us by third parties or, as in the case of our ongoing patent enforcement actions described above, brought by us against third parties, we could be required to:. •  pay substantial monetary damages, including lost profits, reasonable royalties and/or treble damages if an infringement is found to be willful;. •  totally discontinue or substantially modify any products or processes that are found to be in violation of another party's intellectual property rights; and/or. •  seek a license to continue making and selling our products and/or using our manufacturing processes, which we may not be able to obtain on reasonable terms, if at all, which could significantly increase our operating expenses and/or decrease our revenue.. In the actions brought by us against third parties, including our ongoing patent enforcement actions described above, we may be required to pay costs and expenses of opposing parties, including attorney fees, if we lose.. If our competitors are able to use our technology without payment to us, our ability to compete effectively could be materially harmed. Our contracts generally indemnify our customers for third-party claims of intellectual property infringement related to the manufacture and use of our products, and typically up to the amount of the purchase price paid for the product, which could cause us to become involved, and subject to liability, in litigation between our customers and third parties. The expense of defending these claims may adversely affect our results of operations.. 33. Patents covering technologies that are similar or superior to our technologies may be developed or obtained by third parties. We may need to seek licenses to these technologies, which could limit our ability to manufacture our products and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Competitors or other third parties may independently develop and obtain patents covering technologies that are similar or superior to the product forms, applications or manufacturing technologies that we employ. In such event, we may need to obtain licenses for these technologies. However, we may not be able to obtain licenses on reasonable terms, if at all, which could limit our ability to manufacture our current and/or future products and operate our business.. Our contracts with the U.S. government and other third parties could negatively affect our intellectual property rights.. To further our product development efforts, our scientists and engineers work closely with customers, the U.S. government and other third parties to research and develop advancements in aerogel product forms, applications and manufacturing technologies. We have entered into agreements with private third parties and have been awarded numerous research contracts with the U.S. government to independently or jointly research, design and develop new devices and systems that incorporate aerogel material. We also expect to enter into similar private agreements and be awarded similar government contracts in the future. In some instances, the research and development activities that we conduct under contract with the U.S. government and/or with private third parties may produce intellectual property to which we may not have ownership or exclusive rights and will be unable to protect or monetize.. Moreover, when we develop new technologies using U.S. government funding, the government may obtain certain rights in any resulting patents, technical data and/or other confidential and proprietary information, generally including, at a minimum, a non-exclusive license authorizing the U.S. government to use the invention, technical data or software for non-commercial purposes. Federal government funding may limit when and how we can deploy our technology developed under those contracts. In addition, inventions must be reported promptly to the funding agencies, the federal funding must be disclosed in any resulting patent applications, and our rights in such inventions will normally be subject to government license rights, periodic post-contract utilization reporting, foreign manufacturing restrictions and \"march-in\" rights. March-in rights refer to the right of the U.S. government to require us to grant a license to the technology to a responsible applicant or, if we refuse, the government may grant the license itself. The U.S. government may exercise its march-in rights if it determines that action is necessary because we fail to achieve practical application of any technology developed under contract with the government or because action is necessary to alleviate health or safety needs, to meet requirements of federal regulations or to give preference to United States industry. The U.S. government may also have the right to disclose our confidential and proprietary information to third parties. In addition, failure to comply with all the government contract requirements may result in us losing the patent rights.. Our U.S. government-sponsored research contracts are also subject to audit and require that we provide regular written technical updates on a monthly, quarterly or annual basis, and, at the conclusion of the research contract, a final report on the results of our technical research. Because these reports are generally available to the public, third parties may obtain some aspects of our confidential and proprietary information relating to our product forms, applications and/or manufacturing processes. If we fail to provide these reports or to provide accurate and complete reports, the U.S. government could obtain rights to any intellectual property arising from the related research.. Furthermore, there could be disputes between us and a private third party as to the ownership rights to any inventions that we develop in collaboration with such third party. Any such dispute may cause us to incur substantial costs including potential license obligations, and could place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of management from our core business and harm our reputation.. We rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, and our failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could materially adversely affect our competitive business position.. We rely in part on trade secret protection to protect confidential and proprietary information relating to our technology, particularly where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. We continue to develop and refine the manufacturing technologies used to produce our aerogel products and believe that we have already developed, and will continue to develop, significant know-how related to these technologies. However, trade secrets can be difficult to protect. We may not be able to maintain the secrecy of this information and competitors may develop or acquire equally or more valuable information related to the manufacture of comparable aerogel products. Our strategy for scale-up of commercial production will continue to require us to share confidential and proprietary information with the U.S. government and other third parties. While we take reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors or scientific and other advisors, or those of our business partners, may intentionally or inadvertently disclose our confidential and proprietary information to competitors. Any enforcement of claims by us that a third party has obtained and is using our trade secrets is expensive, time consuming and uncertain. In addition, foreign courts are sometimes less willing than United States courts to protect trade secrets.. 34. We require all employees and consultants to execute confidentiality and/or nondisclosure agreements upon the commencement of an employment or consulting arrangement with us, which agreements generally require that all confidential and proprietary information developed by the individual or made known to the individual by us during the course of the individual's relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. These agreements further generally provide that inventions conceived by the individual in the course of rendering services to us will be our exclusive property. Nevertheless, these agreements may not be honored and our confidential and proprietary information may be disclosed, or these agreements may be unenforceable or difficult to enforce. We also require customers and vendors to execute confidentiality and/or nondisclosure agreements. However, we have not obtained such agreements from all of our customers and vendors. Moreover, some of our customers may be subject to laws and regulations that require them to disclose information that we would otherwise seek to keep confidential. Our confidential and proprietary information may be otherwise disclosed without our authorization or knowledge. Moreover, third parties could reverse engineer our manufacturing processes, independently develop substantially equivalent confidential and proprietary information or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Failure to maintain trade secret protection could enable others to produce competing products and adversely affect our competitive business position.. Loss of the intellectual property rights that we license from Cabot Corporation would have a material adverse impact on our business.. We have licensed certain intellectual property rights from Cabot under a cross license agreement. These intellectual property rights have been critical to the manufacture of our existing products and may also be important to our research, development and manufacture of new products. Any loss of the intellectual property rights granted to us thereunder, including as a result of ineffective protection of such rights by Cabot, abandonment or expiration of the involved patents or a breach of or dispute under the agreement by either party would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects, and might prevent us from continuing our business.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. We have incurred and will continue to incur costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies in the United States, which may adversely affect our results of operations.. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act that require us to file, among other things, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and annual reports on Form 10-K. Under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as a part of each of these reports, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer are required to evaluate and report their conclusions regarding the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and to certify that they have done so. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we have included a report of management on our internal control over financial reporting in our Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2017. In addition, upon the first annual report required to be filed with the SEC following the date we are no longer an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, or JOBS Act, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing our financial statements will be required to attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The process of improving and documenting our internal controls and complying with Section 404 is expensive and time consuming, and requires significant attention of management.. Complying with these requirements applicable to public companies may place a strain on our personnel, information technology systems and resources while diverting management's attention from other business concerns. We have engaged outside service providers with appropriate public company compliance experience and technical accounting knowledge to support our compliance efforts. We may need to engage additional service providers to ensure compliance which may cause us to incur additional operating costs.. These and other requirements may also make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain or maintain certain types of insurance, including directors' and officers' liability insurance. We may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage.. The impact of these requirements could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. Any one of these requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 35. Because we are a public company, we are obligated to develop and maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting. If our internal controls over financial reporting are determined to be ineffective, or if our auditors are otherwise unable to attest to their effectiveness when required, investor confidence in our company, and our common stock price, may be adversely affected.. Pursuant to Section 404a of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we have furnished a report by management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 and will continue to do so in each year thereafter. This assessment will be required to include disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting until the first annual report required to be filed with the SEC following the date we are no longer an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the JOBS Act.. We continue to assess our system of internal controls over financial reporting and successfully completed documentation necessary to perform the annual evaluation required to comply with Section 404. In future periods, we may discover, and not be able to remediate timely, significant deficiencies or material weaknesses. During the evaluation and testing process in 2017, we did not identify any material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. In future periods, if we were to identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control, we may be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports or it could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. In addition, any failure to comply with Section 404 could subject us to a variety of administrative sanctions, including SEC action, ineligibility for short form resale registration, the suspension or delisting of our common stock from The New York Stock Exchange, and the inability of registered broker-dealers to make a market in our common stock, which would further reduce our stock price and could harm our business.. We are eligible to be treated as an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in the JOBS Act, and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies makes or will make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company\", as defined in the JOBS Act. For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including:. •  not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as described above;. •  reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements; and. •  exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved.. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest to occur of (i) the end of the fiscal year for which we report $1.0 billion or more in annual revenues, (ii) the end of the fiscal year in which the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million on the last business day of our second fiscal quarter, (iii) our issuance, in a three year period, of more than $1.0 billion of non-convertible debt, and (iv) December 31, 2019. We cannot predict if investors find or will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. The trading market in our common stock has been limited and substantially less liquid than the average trading market for a stock quoted on The New York Stock Exchange.. Since our initial listing on The New York Stock Exchange on June 13, 2014, the trading market in our common stock has been limited and substantially less liquid than the average trading market for companies listed on The New York Stock Exchange. The listing of our common stock on The New York Stock Exchange does not assure that a meaningful, consistent and liquid trading market currently exists or will exist in the future. We cannot predict whether a more active market for our common stock will develop in the future. An absence of an active trading market could adversely affect our stockholders' ability to sell our common stock at current market prices in short time periods, or possibly at all. An inactive market may also impair our ability to raise capital by selling our common stock and may impair our ability to acquire other companies, products or technologies by using our common stock as consideration. Additionally, analyst coverage of our common stock may be limited and such lack of coverage may have a depressive effect on the market price for our common stock. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 20.6% of our outstanding shares of common stock were held by our executive officers, directors, principal stockholders and their respective affiliates, which may adversely affect the liquidity of the trading market for our common stock, in as much as federal securities laws restrict sales of our. 36. shares by these stockholders. If our affiliates continue to hold their shares of common stock, there will be a more limited trading volume in our common stock, which may make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares or increase the volatility of our stock price.. We expect that the price of our common stock will fluctuate substantially, which could subject us to securities class action litigation and result in substantial losses to our stockholders.. The price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a number of factors, including the following, some of which are beyond our control:. •  volume and timing of orders for our products;. •  quarterly and yearly variations in our or our competitors' results of operations;. •  our announcement or our competitors' announcements regarding new products, product enhancements, significant contracts, number of distributors, acquisitions or strategic investments;. •  announcements of technological innovations relating to aerogels, thermal management and energy infrastructure insulation;. •  results of operations or projections that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors;. •  the periodic nature of our sales cycles, in particular for capital projects in the energy infrastructure market;. •  our ability to develop, obtain regulatory clearance or approval for and market new and enhanced products on a timely basis;. •  future sales of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders and their respective affiliates;. •  announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us, including with regard to intellectual property and product liability;. •  changes in accounting principles; and. •  general U.S. and global economic conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors.. Furthermore, the U.S. stock market has at times experienced extreme volatility that in some cases has been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance.. In the past, following periods of market volatility, stockholders have instituted securities class action litigation. If we become involved in securities litigation, it could have a substantial cost and divert resources and the attention of our senior management team from our business regardless of the outcome of such litigation.. Securities analysts may not continue coverage of our common stock or may issue negative reports, which may have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock.. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. Securities analysts may elect not to provide research coverage of our common stock. If securities analysts do not cover or continue to cover our common stock, the lack of research coverage may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. If one or more of the analysts who elects to cover us downgrades our stock, our stock price would likely decline substantially. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. In addition, rules mandated by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and a global settlement reached in 2003 between the SEC, other regulatory agencies and a number of investment banks have led to a number of fundamental changes in how analysts are reviewed and compensated. In particular, many investment banking firms are required to contract with independent financial analysts for their stock research. It may be difficult for companies such as ours, with smaller market capitalizations, to attract independent financial analysts that will cover our common stock. This could have a negative effect on the market price of our stock.. 37. Our directors, officers and principal stockholders have significant voting power and may take actions that may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders.. As of December 31, 2017, our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders and their affiliates collectively controlled approximately 20.6% of our outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, may be able to control the management and affairs of our company and certain matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders.. Anti-takeover provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws, and Delaware law, could delay or discourage a takeover.. Anti-takeover provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws and Delaware law may have the effect of deterring or delaying attempts by our stockholders to remove or replace management, engage in proxy contests and effect changes in control. The provisions of our charter documents include:. •  procedures for advance notification of stockholder nominations and proposals;. •  the inability of our stockholders to call a special meeting of the stockholders and the inability of our stockholders to act by written consent;. •  the ability of our board of directors to create new directorships and to fill any vacancies on the board of directors;. •  the ability of our board of directors to amend our restated bylaws without stockholder approval; and. •  the ability of our board of directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval upon the terms and conditions and with the rights, privileges and preferences as our board of directors may determine.. In addition, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. In general, Section 203 prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder unless certain specific requirements are met as set forth in Section 203. These provisions, alone or together, could have the effect of deterring or delaying changes in incumbent management, proxy contests or changes in control.. Our restated certificate of incorporation designates a state or federal court located within the State of Delaware as the exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees.. Our restated certificate of incorporation provides that, subject to limited exceptions, a state or federal court located within the State of Delaware will be the exclusive forum for (1) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (2) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders, (3) any action asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law, our restated certificate of incorporation or our restated bylaws, or (4) any other action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock shall be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to the provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation described above. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and employees. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. Our shareholders may experience future dilution as a result of future equity offerings.. In the future, we may offer additional shares of our common stock or other securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock in order to raise additional capital. We cannot assure our shareholders that we will be able to sell shares or other securities in any other offering at a price per share that is equal to or greater than the price per share our shareholders paid for our shares. Investors purchasing shares or other securities in the future could have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our shareholders and our shareholders may experience dilution. Our shareholders may incur additional dilution upon the exercise of any outstanding stock options or warrants, the issuance of shares of restricted stock, the vesting of restricted stock units, or the issuance, vesting or exercise of other equity awards.. 38. We do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future and, consequently, our shareholders' ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock.. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock and we do not intend to pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently expect to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. In addition, the terms of our revolving credit facility restrict our ability to pay dividends and any future credit facilities, loan agreements, debt instruments or other agreements may further restrict our ability to pay dividends. Payments of future dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including our business, results of operations and financial condition, current and anticipated cash needs, plans for expansion and any legal or contractual limitations on our ability to pay dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be our shareholders' sole source of potential gain for the foreseeable future.. CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act that relate to future events or our future financial performance and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Words such as, but not limited to, \"believe,\" \"expect,\" \"anticipate,\" \"estimate,\" \"intend,\" \"seek,\" \"may,\" \"plan,\" \"potential,\" \"predict,\" \"project,\" \"targets,\" \"likely,\" \"will,\" \"would,\" \"could,\" \"should,\" \"continue,\" and similar expressions or phrases, or the negative of those expressions or phrases, are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain these identifying words. Although we believe that we have a reasonable basis for each forward-looking statement contained in this report, we caution you that these statements are based on our projections of the future that are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements, to differ. The description of our Business set forth in Item 1, the Risk Factors set forth in this Item 1A and our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in Item 7 as well as other sections in this report, discuss some of the factors that could contribute to these differences. These forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements about:. •  the expected future growth of the market for aerogel insulation and continued gain in market share, in particular in the energy infrastructure insulation market and other markets we target;. •  our plans to invest approximately $6.0 million in incremental manufacturing and operating expense and to add 49 employees during 2018;. •  our expectation that our investment in incremental manufacturing and operating expense will restore long-term growth in our existing markets and develop new business opportunities;. •  our plans to continue to develop and optimize aerogel products for applications within the building materials market and our plan to realize revenue from this market;. •  our pursuit of high-value opportunities for our aerogel products within different segments of the global insulation market, including the building materials market, and our plans to leverage our aerogel technology platform to develop innovative, aerogel enhanced products for applications outside the global insulation market;. •  our plans to focus additional resources to continue to grow our share of the energy infrastructure insulation market;. •  our pursuit of and the expected greater adoption of our products in district heating systems, LNG production and storage, and power generation markets and our expectation that product revenue will be generated in large part by demand for insulation associated with scheduled plant shutdowns, or turnarounds, and other maintenance-related projects;. •  our expectation that our products will be specified during the design phase in a growing number of new plant construction and capital expansion projects and our expectation that we will have an increasing percentage of our products sold for use in capital projects;. •  our expectation that the growth in global energy demand will result in increased new-build and large capacity expansion projects, driving demand for our aerogel products;. •  our plans to continue our strategy of working with innovative companies to target and penetrate additional market opportunities;. •  our plans to develop strategic partnerships to facilitate market penetration beyond the energy infrastructure and building materials market, as well as the expected goals and priorities of such strategic partnerships;. 39. •  our belief that an adequate long-term supply of silica-precursor is available;. •  our belief that our portfolio of patents, trade secrets and know-how presents a significant barrier to potential new entrants in the production of aerogel blanket insulation;. •  our expectation that we will be successful in enforcing and defending our patents against competitors and that such patents are valid and enforceable, as well as our expectations about the costs and consequences of our current or potential future patent litigation and the potential for additional patent litigation;. •  our belief that our products possess strong competitive advantages over traditional insulation materials, including the superior thermal performance and the thin, easy-to-use and durable blanket form of our products;. •  our plans to expand capacity at our East Providence, Rhode Island manufacturing facility and our plans to construct a second manufacturing facility in Statesboro, Georgia;. •  our expectation that expanded capacity in our East Providence, Rhode Island facility or the first phase of the first production line at the planned second manufacturing facility will become available or operational in a timely manner to support the long-term growth in demand we expect;. •  our current estimate that the cost of the project to expand capacity in our East Providence, Rhode Island facility will range from $15 million to $20 million;. •  our expectation that the project to expand capacity in our East Providence, Rhode Island facility will provide an additional annual nameplate capacity of 10 million square feet of aerogel blankets;. •  our belief that we can finance the expansion of our existing manufacturing facility with our cash balance, anticipated cash flows from operations, local government grants, debt financings and potentially equity financings;. •  our belief that our end-use customers will continue to invest in major energy infrastructure projects;. •  our expectation that we will continue to sell our products in the building materials and other end markets;. •  our expectation that we will develop, manufacture and sell new products and technologies through the strategic partnership with BASF and that our strategic partnership with BASF will facilitate our penetration of the building materials market;. •  our current estimate that design, development and construction costs for this second manufacturing facility and its first production line, to be built in two phases, will range from $120 million to $130 million;. •  our expectation that our planned second manufacturing facility and its first production line will provide an additional annual nameplate capacity of 40 million square feet of aerogel blankets, and that the plant site, layout and design will support future development of two additional similar production lines;. •  our belief that we can finance our planned second manufacturing facility and its first production line with anticipated cash flows from operations, local government grants, debt financings and potentially equity financings;. •  our belief that the potential for significant technological innovation in traditional insulation materials is limited and that new high-performance materials will be required to meet evolving market requirements for energy efficient insulations systems;. •  our belief that our aerogel products and manufacturing processes are proprietary and that we can protect our patents, trade secrets and know-how associated therewith;. •  our belief that we can continue to improve the cost efficiency of our manufacturing process, that our current expansion plans offer attractive returns on incremental invested capital, and that we will focus our development efforts on new products and next generation technology with application in new, high value market segments;. •  our belief that we will have opportunities to address additional high value applications in the estimated $3.1 billion global insulation market, and that we are well positioned to leverage a decade's worth of research and development to design and commercialize disruptive aerogel products for a wide array of new markets;. •  our belief that our products have the lowest cost on a fully-installed basis or offer significant life-cycle cost savings in energy infrastructure and certain other applications as compared to traditional insulation materials;. •  our plans to continue to expand our global sales force and distribution network to support anticipated growth in customers and demand for our products and our plans to seek to promote greater enterprise-wide utilization of our products by existing end-use customers;. 40. •  our expectation to continue to hire a significant number of employees in order to support our anticipated growth, and that in the long-term we will continue to increase investment in research, development and engineering personnel, projects and infrastructure in support of efforts to develop new products, technologies and markets;. •  our expectations about future revenues, expenses, gross profit, net loss, loss per share and Adjusted EBITDA, sources and uses of cash, capital requirements and the sufficiency of our existing cash balance and available credit;. •  our expectations that most of our revenue will continue to come from a relatively small number of customers for the foreseeable future;. •  our expectations of long-term revenue growth, with increasing levels of gross profit and improved cash flows from operations and our expectations that we will incur significant capital expenditures related to the expansion of our manufacturing capacity to support this expected long term growth in demand;. •  our expectations about the impact of new accounting pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures;. •  our belief that our experienced and dedicated leadership team will provide us with a competitive advantage in the industry;. •  the expected future development of new aerogel technologies; and. •  our expectations about limitations of net operating losses.. We may not actually achieve the plans, intentions or expectations disclosed in our forward-looking statements, and you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Actual results or events could differ materially from the plans, intentions and expectations disclosed in the forward-looking statements we make. We have included important cautionary statements in this report, particularly in the Risk Factors set forth in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, that we believe could cause actual results or events to differ materially from the forward-looking statements that we make. Our forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact of any future acquisitions, mergers, dispositions, joint ventures or investments we may make.. You should read this report and the documents that we reference in this report and have filed as exhibits to this report completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. The forward-looking statements contained in this report are made as of the date of this report, and we do not assume, and specifically disclaim, any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise."
