[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. In addition to other information in this report, the following factors should be considered carefully in evaluating an investment in our securities. If any of the risks or uncertainties described in this Form 10 - K actually occurs, our business, results of operations or financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. The risks and uncertainties described in this Form 10 - K are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are unaware or that we currently deem immaterial may also become important factors that may harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We rely on Collegium Pharmaceutical Inc. to commercialize NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER and their failure to successfully commercialize these products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In December 2017, we entered into a commercialization agreement with Collegium pursuant to which Collegium assumed, effective as of January 9, 2018, responsibility for the sales and marketing of NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER.  Collegium will pay us royalties based on net sales of NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER. Although we have retained certain rights to promote NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER to physicians that Collegium does not call on, we do not have any immediate plans to exercise such rights. As a result, the commercial success of NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER will depend almost entirely on Collegium's commercialization efforts.. As a company, Collegium has a limited history of selling and marketing pharmaceutical products.  Collegium's ability to successfully commercialize and generate revenues from NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER, our largest selling product, depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, Collegium's ability to:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdevelop and execute its sales and marketing strategies for NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tachieve, maintain and grow market acceptance of, and demand for, NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tobtain and maintain adequate coverage, reimbursement and pricing from managed care, government and other third-party payers;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmaintain and manage the necessary sales, marketing, manufacturing, managed markets, and other capabilities and infrastructure that are required to successfully integrate and commercialize NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tobtain adequate supply of NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER; and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcomply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements.. Additional factors that may affect the success of our commercialization arrangement with Collegium include the following:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tCollegium may prioritize the commercialization of their other products, including Xtampza, over NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tCollegium may pursue higher-priority programs, or change the focus of its marketing programs;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tCollegium may acquire or develop alternative products;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tCollegium may in the future choose to devote fewer resources to NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in laws and regulations applicable to, and scrutiny of, the pharmaceutical industry, including the opioid market;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmarket acceptance of NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER may fail to increase  or may decrease;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe outcome of the appeal of the court's ruling in our litigation against the ANDA filers seeking to prevent such ANDA filers from marketing a generic version of NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER in the U.S.;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tCollegium may experience financial difficulties; or. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tCollegium may fail to comply with its obligations under our commercialization agreement.. Any of the preceding factors could affect Collegium's commitment to, and ability to perform, its obligations under the commercialization agreement, which, in turn, could adversely affect the commercial success of NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER. Any failure by Collegium to successfully commercialize NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 16. Table of Contents. If our commercialization agreement with Collegium terminates, we may not succeed in commercializing NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER on our own or through an alternative commercialization partner.. Our agreement with Collegium grants each party specified termination rights, including if certain minimum performance criteria are unmet.  Further, Collegium may terminate the agreement at any time and for any reason after the first anniversary by providing us 12 months' notice. Alternatively, if Collegium is unsuccessful in its commercialization of NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER we may seek to terminate the agreement.  If the agreement is terminated for any reason, we may either perform commercialization activities relating to NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER on our own or search for another commercialization partner, either of which would result in us incurring greater expenses and could cause a disruption in the commercialization of the products while we expand our commercial operations or seek an alternative commercialization partner, which disruption could lead to a loss of market share and decreased demand for the products. If we elect to increase our expenditures to fund commercialization activities on our own, we may need to obtain additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all, or which may not be possible due to our other financing arrangements.. If we do not successfully commercialize Gralise, CAMBIA, and Zipsor, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected.. In October 2011, we began commercial sales of Gralise. In June 2012, we acquired Zipsor and began commercial promotion of Zipsor in July 2012. In December 2013, we acquired CAMBIA and began commercial promotion of CAMBIA in February 2014.  In addition to the risks discussed elsewhere in this section, our ability to successfully commercialize and generate revenues from Gralise, CAMBIA and Zipsor, depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdevelop and execute our sales and marketing strategies for our products;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tachieve, maintain and grow market acceptance of, and demand for, our products;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tobtain and maintain adequate coverage, reimbursement and pricing from managed care, government and other third-party payers;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmaintain, manage or scale the necessary sales, marketing, manufacturing, managed markets, and other capabilities and infrastructure that are required to successfully integrate and commercialize our products;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tobtain adequate supply of our products;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmaintain and extend intellectual property protection for our products; and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcomply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements.. If we are unable to successfully achieve or perform these functions, we will not be able to maintain or increase our product revenues and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected.. We depend on third parties that are single source suppliers to manufacture our products. If these suppliers are unable to manufacture and supply our products, or if there is insufficient availability of our products or the raw materials necessary to manufacture our products, our business will suffer.. We have one qualified supplier for the active pharmaceutical ingredient in each of NUCYNTA ER, NUCYNTA, CAMBIA, Zipsor and Gralise. An affiliate of Janssen Pharma is currently the sole supplier of NUCYNTA ER pursuant to a manufacturing supply agreement we entered into with such entity in April 2015. Halo Pharmaceutical, Inc. (Halo) is the sole supplier of NUCYNTA pursuant to a manufacturing supply agreement we entered into with Halo in June 2017.  Patheon Puerto Rico Inc. (Patheon) is our sole supplier for Gralise pursuant to a manufacturing and supply agreement we entered into with Patheon in September 2011. Catalent Ontario Limited is our sole supplier for Zipsor pursuant to a manufacturing agreement we assumed in connection with our acquisition of Zipsor in June 2012. MiPharm, S.p.A is our sole supplier for CAMBIA pursuant to a manufacturing and supply agreement that we assumed in connection with our acquisition of CAMBIA in December 2013. We do not have, and we do not intend to establish in the foreseeable future, internal commercial scale manufacturing capabilities. Rather, we intend to use the facilities of third parties to manufacture products for commercialization and clinical trials. Our dependence on third parties for the manufacture of our products and our product candidates may adversely affect our ability to obtain such products on a timely or competitive basis, if at all. Any stock out, or failure to obtain sufficient supplies of NUCYNTA or NUCYNTA ER, or the necessary active pharmaceutical ingredients, excipients or components necessary to manufacture NUCYNTA. 17. Table of Contents. or NUCYNTA ER, would adversely affect Collegium's ability to commercialize such products, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  Any stock out, or failure to obtain sufficient supplies of Gralise, CAMBIA, or Zipsor, or the necessary active pharmaceutical ingredients, excipients or components from our suppliers would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Hurricanes Irma and Maria caused significant devastation and damage throughout Puerto Rico in 2017, including widespread flooding and power loss.  As a result, we experienced delays in the manufacture, packaging and delivery of certain dosage strengths of NUCYNTA ER in fourth quarter of 2017 and the first quarter of 2018. We and Collegium may continue to experience further outages in the future. Any delay in the manufacture, packaging or delivery of NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER, whether due to the manufacturing facility at which NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER are produced not being fully operational for an extended period of time or otherwise, could adversely affect the ability of Collegium to commercialize such products, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if our contract manufacturer is unable to deliver a certain percentage of ordered quantities of NUCYNTA ER for a period of two months or longer in calendar year 2018, then we may be required to make a payment to Collegium to ensure that it receives a minimum level of gross profit for 2018, in which case we would not be ensured a minimum amount of royalties from Collegium for 2018.. The manufacturing process for pharmaceutical products is highly regulated, and regulators may shut down manufacturing facilities that they believe do not comply with regulations. We, our third-party manufacturers and our suppliers are subject to numerous regulations, including current FDA regulations governing manufacturing processes, stability testing, record keeping and quality standards. Similar regulations are in effect in other countries. Our third-party manufacturers and suppliers are independent entities who are subject to their own unique operational and financial risks which are out of our control. If we or any third-party manufacturer or supplier fails to perform as required or fails to comply with the regulations of the FDA and other applicable governmental authorities, our ability to deliver adequate supplies of our products to our customers on a timely basis, or to continue our clinical trials could be adversely affected. The manufacturing processes of our third party manufacturers and suppliers may also be found to violate the proprietary rights of others. To the extent these risks materialize and adversely affect such third-party manufacturers' performance obligations to us, and we are unable to contract for a sufficient supply of required products on acceptable terms, or if we encounter delays and difficulties in our relationships with manufacturers or suppliers, our business, results of operation and financial condition could be adversely affected.. If generic manufacturers use litigation and regulatory means to obtain approval for generic versions of our products, our business will be materially and adversely affected.. Under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act (FDCA), the FDA can approve an ANDA for a generic version of a branded drug without the ANDA applicant undertaking the clinical testing necessary to obtain approval to market a new drug. In place of such clinical studies, an ANDA applicant usually needs only to submit data demonstrating that its product has the same active ingredient(s) and is bioequivalent to the branded product, in addition to any data necessary to establish that any difference in strength, dosage, form, inactive ingredients or delivery mechanism does not result in different safety or efficacy profiles, as compared to the reference drug.. The FDCA requires an applicant for a drug that relies, at least in part, on the patent of one of our branded drugs to notify us of their application and potential infringement of our patent rights. Upon receipt of this notice we have 45 days to bring a patent infringement suit in federal district court against the company seeking approval of a product covered by one of our patents. The discovery, trial and appeals process in such suits can take several years. If such a suit is commenced, the FDCA provides a 30-month stay on the FDA's approval of the competitor's  application. Such litigation is often time-consuming and quite costly and may result in generic competition if the patents at issue are not upheld or if the generic competitor is found not to infringe such patents. If the litigation is resolved in favor of the applicant or the challenged patent expires during the 30-month stay period, the stay is lifted and the FDA may thereafter approve the application based on the standards for approval of ANDAs.. We have been involved in patent litigation lawsuits against filers of ANDAs (the Filers) seeking to market generic versions of NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER before the expiration of the patents listed in the Patent and Exclusivity Information Addendum of FDA's publication, Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations (commonly known as the Orange Book) for these two products. A two-week bench trial was completed on April 27, 2016. On September 30, 2016, the Court issued its opinion finding all three of the Orange Book patents valid and enforceable. On April 11, 2017, the Court entered a final judgment, which included an injunction enjoining the. 18. Table of Contents. Filers from engaging in certain activities with regard to tapentadol (the active ingredient in NUCYNTA) and ordering the effective date of any approval of Actavis, Actavis UT, and Roxane's ANDAs, and Alkem's ANDA for NUCYNTA IR to be no earlier than the expiry of the '364 Patent (June 27, 2025), and the effective date of any approval of Alkem's ANDA for NUCYNTA ER to be no early than the expiry of the '130 Patent (September 22, 2028).  The foregoing periods of exclusivity may in the future be extended with the award of pediatric exclusivity. The Court's final judgment remains subject to the results of the appeals filed by the parties.. Any introduction of one or more products generic to NUCYNTA ER, NUCYNTA, Gralise, CAMBIA, or Zipsor, whether as a result of an ANDA or otherwise, would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The filing of the ANDAs described above, or any other ANDA or similar application in respect to any of our products, could have an adverse impact on our stock price. Moreover, if the patents covering our products are not upheld in litigation or if a generic competitor is found not to infringe these patents, the resulting generic competition would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we or our commercialization partner are unable to negotiate acceptable pricing or obtain adequate reimbursement for our products from third-party payers, our business will suffer.. Sales of our products depend significantly on the availability of acceptable pricing and adequate reimbursement from third-party payers such as:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgovernment health administration authorities;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprivate health insurers;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\thealth maintenance organizations;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmanaged care organizations;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpharmacy benefit management companies; and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tother healthcare-related organizations.. If reimbursement is not available for our products or product candidates, demand for our products may be limited. Further, any delay in receiving approval for reimbursement from third - party payers could have an adverse effect on our future revenues.. Third-party payers frequently require pharmaceutical companies to negotiate agreements that provide discounts or rebates from list prices and that protect the payers from price increases above a specified annual limit. We and our commercialization partner have agreed to provide such discounts and rebates to certain third-party payers. We expect increasing pressure to offer larger discounts and rebates or discounts and rebates to a greater number of third-party payers to maintain acceptable reimbursement levels for and access to our products for patients at co-pay levels that are reasonable and customary. Consolidation among large third party payers may increase their leverage in negotiations with pharmaceutical companies. If we or our commercialization partner are forced to provide additional discounts and rebates to third party payers to maintain acceptable access to our products for patients, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. If third-party payers do not accurately and timely report the eligibility and utilization of our products under their plans, our reserves for rebates or other amounts payable to third party payers may be lower than the amount we are invoiced and we may be required to dispute the amount payable, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, we have had, and continue to have, disputes with managed care providers over rebates related to our products.  Even when rebate claims made by such managed care providers are without merit, we may be forced to pay such disputed amounts to the extent our failure to do so could otherwise adversely impact our business, such as our ability to maintain a favorable position on such provider's formulary. In addition, if competitors reduce the prices of their products, or otherwise demonstrate that they are better or more cost effective than our products, this may result in a greater level of reimbursement for their products relative to our products, which would reduce sales of our products and harm our results of operations. The process for determining whether a third-party payer will provide coverage for a product may be separate from the process for setting the price or reimbursement rate that such third-party payer will pay for the product once coverage is approved. Third-party payers may limit coverage to specific products on an approved list, or formulary, which might not include all of the approved products for a particular indication, including one or more of our products. Any third-party payer decision not to approve pricing for, or provide adequate coverage and reimbursement of, our products, including by reducing, limiting or denying reimbursement for new products or excluding products that were previously eligible for reimbursement, would limit the market acceptance and commercial prospects of our products and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, any third-party payer decision to impose restrictions, limitations or conditions on. 19. Table of Contents. prescribing or reimbursement of our products, including on the dosing or duration of prescriptions for our products, would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. There have been, and there will continue to be, legislative, regulatory and third-party payer proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could impact our ability to commercialize our products profitably. We anticipate that the federal and state legislatures and the private sector will continue to consider and may adopt and implement healthcare policies, such as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (the ACA), intended to curb rising healthcare costs. These cost containment measures may include: controls on government-funded reimbursement for drugs; new or increased requirements to pay prescription drug rebates to government health care programs; controls on healthcare providers; challenges to or limits on the pricing of drugs, including pricing controls or limits or prohibitions on reimbursement for specific products through other means; requirements to try less expensive products or generics before a more expensive branded product; and public funding for cost effectiveness research, which may be used by government and private third-party payers to make coverage and payment decisions. In California, voters rejected Proposition 61 in November 2016, a ballot initiative that would have prohibited the state from buying prescription drugs from a drug manufacturer at a price over the lowest price paid for such drug by U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. Although Proposition 61 was defeated, these and other cost containment or price control measures, if adopted at the federal or state level, could significantly decrease the price that we or our commercialization partner receive for our products and any product that we may develop or acquire, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in laws and regulations applicable to, and investigations of, the pharmaceutical industry, including the opioid market, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The manufacture, marketing, sale, promotion and distribution of our products are subject to comprehensive government regulation. Changes in laws and regulations applicable to the pharmaceutical industry could potentially affect our business. For instance, federal, state and local governments have recently given increased attention to the public health issue of opioid abuse. In 2016, the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) issued national, non-binding guidelines on the prescribing of opioids, providing recommended considerations for primary care providers when prescribing opioids, including specific considerations and cautionary information about opioid dosage increases and morphine milligram equivalents (MME).  Certain third-party payers are, or are considering, adopting some or all of these CDC guidelines to limit access to high doses of opioids. Recently, CVS Pharmacy announced it would only fill first time opioid prescriptions for acute pain for a seven day supply. In July 2017, the Pharmaceutical Care Management Association, a trade association representing pharmacy benefit managers, wrote a letter to the commissioner of FDA in which it expressed support for, among other things, the CDC guidelines and a seven-day limit on the supply of opioids for acute pain. In addition, states, including the Commonwealths of Massachusetts  and Virginia and the States of New York, Ohio, Arizona, Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Rhode Island, Colorado, Wisconsin, Alabama, South Carolina, Washington and New Jersey, have either recently enacted, intend to enact, or have pending legislation or regulations designed to, among other things, limit the duration and quantity of initial prescriptions of immediate release forms of opiates, mandate the use by prescribers of prescription drug databases and mandate prescriber education. Also, at the state and local level, a number of states and cities have brought separate lawsuits against various pharmaceutical companies marketing and selling opioid pain medications, alleging misleading or otherwise improper promotion of opioid drugs to physicians and consumers.  In addition, the attorneys general from several states have announced the launch of a joint investigation into the marketing and sales practices of drug companies that market opioid pain medications. These and other similar initiatives and actions, whether taken by governmental authorities or other industry stakeholders, may result in the reduced prescribing and use of opioids, including NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER, which could adversely affect the ability of Collegium to commercialize NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER, and in turn adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. At the federal level, the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) and the National Institutes of Health are coordinating efforts between the FDA, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA), the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and pharmaceutical industry groups to research and develop effective non-opioid pain relievers. The DEA continues to increase its efforts to hold manufacturers, distributors, prescribers and pharmacies accountable through various enforcement actions as well as the implementation of compliance practices for controlled substances. Further, the FDA is requiring \"black-box\" warnings on immediate release opioids highlighting the risk of misuse, abuse, addiction, overdose and death as well as implementing a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies (REMS) for immediate release opioids. Many elected officials, including President Trump, have called for the DEA to restrict the amount of opioids that can be manufactured in the U.S. The DEA also recently proposed reducing the quota. 20. Table of Contents. for controlled substances to be manufactured in the U.S. in 2018.  In March 2017, President Trump announced the creation of a commission, through ONDCP, to make recommendations to the president on how to best combat opioid addiction and abuse. In August 2017, the commission issued a preliminary report calling on President Trump to officially declare the crisis of opioid abuse a national emergency. On October 26, 2017, President Trump declared the opioid crisis a \"national public health emergency\". The commission's final report was released in early November 2017. These and other changes and potential changes in laws, regulations and industry and regulatory practices including those that have the effect of reducing the overall market for opioids or reducing the prescribing of opioids, could adversely affect Collegium's ability to commercialize NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER and in turn adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Heightened attention on the problems associated with the abuse of opioids could adversely affect Collegium's ability to commercialize NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. In recent years, there has been increased public attention on the public health issue of opioid abuse.  The ability of drug abusers to discover previously unknown ways to abuse and misuse opioid products; public inquiries and governmental investigations into prescription drug abuse; litigation and heightened regulatory activity regarding the sales, marketing, distribution or storage of opioid products, among other things, could cause additional unfavorable publicity regarding the use and misuse of opioids, which could have a material adverse effect on opioid products, the reputation of the opioid manufacturers and the ability of our commercialization partner to successfully commercialize NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER. Such negative publicity could reduce the potential size of the market for NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER, and decrease the revenues Collegium is able to generate from their sale, which in turn would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, such increased scrutiny of opioids generally, whether focused on NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER or otherwise, could have the effect of negatively impacting relationships with healthcare providers and other members of the healthcare community, reducing the overall market for opioids or reducing the prescribing and use of NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER.. Governmental investigations and inquiries as well as regulatory actions with respect to our historical commercialization of opioids could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As a result of the greater public awareness of the public health issue of opioid abuse, there has been increased scrutiny of, and investigation into, the commercial practices of opioid manufacturers generally by federal, state and local regulatory and governmental agencies. For example, we were named as a defendant in a case brought by the City of Chicago against a number of pharmaceutical companies marketing and selling opioid pain medications, alleging misleading or otherwise improper promotion of opioid drugs to physicians and consumers. This case against us was dismissed.  We received a letter from Senator Claire McCaskill, the Ranking Member on the U.S. Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, requesting certain information from the Company regarding its prior commercialization of opioid products.  We voluntarily furnished information responsive to Sen. McCaskill's requests.  We received subpoenas or civil investigative demands from the Attorneys General of Kentucky, Maryland, Missouri, Montana, New Jersey and Washington seeking documents and information regarding our prior sales and marketing of opioid products. We are cooperating with each of the foregoing states in their investigations.  We received a subpoena from the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) seeking documents and information regarding our prior sales and marketing of opioid products.  We are cooperating with the DOJ in its investigation. We also from time to time receive and comply with subpoenas from governmental authorities related to investigations primarily directed at third parties, including health care practitioners, pursuant to which our records related to agreements with and payments made to those third parties, among other items, are produced.. These and other governmental investigations or inquiries in which we may become involved may result in claims and lawsuits being brought against us by governmental agencies or private parties.  It is not possible at this time to predict the outcome of any governmental investigations or inquiries of us or any lawsuits or regulatory responses that may result from such investigations or inquiries or otherwise.  However, the initiation of any investigation, inquiry or lawsuit relating to us, or any assertion, claim or finding of wrongdoing by us, could:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tresult in reputational harm and reduced market acceptance and demand for our products;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tharm our and our commercial partner's ability to market our products;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcause us to incur significant costs and expenses; and. 21. Table of Contents. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcause our senior management to be distracted from execution of our business strategy.. Furthermore, governmental regulators could take measures that could have a negative effect on our business and our products.  For example, Endo Pharmaceuticals, Inc. recently voluntarily withdrew, at the FDA's request, OPANA ER from the market due to the FDA's view that the risks associated with the use of the product outweighed the potential benefits.  Any negative regulatory request or action taken by a regulatory agency, including the FDA, with respect to NUCYNTA or NUCYNTA ER would adversely affect Collegium's ability to commercialize NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER, adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may incur significant liability if it is determined that we are promoting or have in the past promoted the \"off-label\" use of drugs.. Companies may not promote drugs for \"off-label\" use - that is, uses that are not described in the product's labeling and that differ from those approved by the FDA. Physicians may prescribe drug products for off-label uses, and such off-label uses are common across some medical specialties. Although the FDA and other regulatory agencies do not regulate a physician's choice of treatments, the FDCA and FDA regulations restrict communications on the subject of off-label uses of drug products by pharmaceutical companies. The Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (OIG), the FDA, and the DOJ all actively enforce laws and regulations prohibiting promotion of off-label use and the promotion of products for which marketing clearance has not been obtained. Such liabilities would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations as well as divert management's attention from our business operations and damage our reputation.. We and our commercial partner may be unable to compete successfully in the pharmaceutical industry.. Tapentadol, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER, is a proprietary opioid analgesic that is marketed in the U.S. by our commercialization partner Collegium. NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER compete with a number of branded and generic products that are widely used to treat moderate to severe pain, including neuropathic pain associated with DPN, and acute pain, respectively. These products include OxyContin® (oxycodone hydrochloride extended-release tables), which is owned by Purdue, is approved for marketing in the U.S. for the management of pain severe enough to require daily, around-the-clock, long-term opioid treatment and for which alternative treatment options are inadequate. OxyContin® has achieved significant levels of market acceptance. Unlike NUCYNTA ER, a number of long-acting opioids have product labelling related to their abuse deterrent properties, which may put NUCYNTA ER at a competitive disadvantage. There are also a number of branded and generic short and long acting opioids, including oxycodone, oxymorphone, fentanyl patch, morphine, buprenorphine patch, tramadol, hydrocodone and hydromorphone, which have received approval and are marketed in the U.S. for the treatment of moderate to severe pain, including chronic and acute pain. More opioid development and launches of both generics and brands are expected to continue.  For example, Butrans (promoted by Purdue) has been facing generic entrants since June 2017. In addition, Pfizer's new opioid Troxyca ER was approved in 2016, but has not yet launched. Teva's  Vantrela ER was approved in 2017, but has not yet launched. Inspirion received approval for MorphaBond\231 ER (morphine sulfate) and RoxyBond (oxycodone HCL).   MorphaBond launched in the fourth quarter of 2017 and RoxyBond is expected to launch in the first quarter of 2018. Lyrica (pregabalin), which is marketed by Pfizer, is approved for marketing in the U.S. for the treatment of neuropathic pain associated with DPN. Pfizer also received approval on October 13, 2017 to market Lyrica CR (pregabalin extended-release tablets), a once-daily treatment for the management of DPN and PHN. Branded and generic versions of duloxetine and lidocaine have also been approved for marketing in the U.S. for the treatment of neuropathic pain associated with DPN. There are a number of other products and treatments prescribed for, or under development for, the management of chronic and acute pain, including neuropathic pain associated with DPN, which are now or may become competitive with NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER.. Branded gabapentin is currently sold by Pfizer as Neurontin for adjunctive therapy for partial onset epileptic seizures and for PHN. Pfizer's basic U.S. patents relating to Neurontin have expired, and numerous companies have received approval to market generic versions of the immediate release product. In addition to receiving approval for marketing to treat neuropathic pain associated with DPN, Lyrica (pregabalin), has also been approved for marketing in the U.S. for the treatment of post herpetic pain, fibromyalgia, adjunctive therapy for partial onset epileptic seizures, and nerve pain associated with spinal cord injury and has captured a significant portion of the market. Pfizer received approval on October 13, 2017 to market Lyrica CR (pregabalin extended-release tablets), a once-daily treatment for the management of DPN and PHN. Arbor Pharmaceuticals, LLC's Horizant (gabapentin enacarbil extended-release tablets). 22. Table of Contents. is approved for the management of PHN and Restless Leg Syndrome. There are other products prescribed for or under development for PHN which are now or may become competitive with Gralise.. Diclofenac, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Zipsor, is an NSAID that is approved in the U.S. for the treatment of mild to moderate pain in adults, including the symptoms of arthritis. Both branded and generic versions of diclofenac are marketed in the U.S. Zipsor competes against other drugs that are widely used to treat mild to moderate pain in the acute setting. In addition, a number of other companies are developing NSAIDs in a variety of dosage forms for the treatment of mild to moderate pain and related indications. Other drugs are in clinical development to treat acute pain.. An alternate formulation of diclofenac is the active ingredient in CAMBIA that is approved in the U.S. for the acute treatment of migraines in adults. CAMBIA competes with a number of triptans that are used to treat migraines and certain other headaches. Pfizer's Relpax patent expired in December 2016, and generic entrants began in July 2017. Currently, seven triptans are available and sold in the U.S. (almotriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, naratriptan, rizatriptan, sumatriptan and zolmitriptan). Branded competitors include Zomig nasal, Onzetra, Xsail Zembrace, SymTouchTM and Treximet, which is a fixed-dose combination product containing sumatriptan plus naproxen. There are other products prescribed for or under development for the treatment of migraines that are now or may become competitive with CAMBIA, including CGRP products which may launch in 2018.. Competition in the pharmaceutical industry is intense and we expect competition to increase. Competing products currently under development or developed in the future may prove superior to our products and may achieve greater commercial acceptance. Most of our principal competitors have substantially greater financial, sales, marketing, personnel and research and development resources than we or Collegium do.. Pharmaceutical marketing is subject to substantial regulation in the U.S. and any failure by us or our commercial and collaborative partners to comply with applicable statutes or regulations could adversely affect our business.. All marketing activities of Collegium associated with NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER, and of us associated with Gralise, CAMBIA, and Zipsor, as well as marketing activities related to any other products that we may acquire, or for which we or our collaborative partners obtain regulatory approval, are and will be subject to numerous federal and state laws governing the marketing and promotion of pharmaceutical products. The FDA regulates post-approval promotional labeling and advertising to ensure that they conform to statutory and regulatory requirements. In addition to FDA restrictions, the marketing of prescription drugs is subject to laws and regulations prohibiting fraud and abuse under government healthcare programs. For example, the federal healthcare program anti-kickback statute prohibits giving things of value to induce the prescribing or purchase of products that are reimbursed by federal healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. In addition, federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government. Under this law, in recent years, the federal government has brought claims against drug manufacturers alleging that certain marketing activities caused false claims for prescription drugs to be submitted to federal programs. Many states have similar statutes or regulations that apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, and, in some states, such statutes or regulations apply regardless of the payer.. Governmental authorities may also seek to hold us responsible for any failure of our commercialization or collaborative partners to comply with applicable statutes or regulations. If we, or our commercial or collaborative partners, fail to comply with applicable FDA regulations or other laws or regulations relating to the marketing of our products, we could be subject to criminal prosecution, civil penalties, seizure of products, injunctions and exclusion of our products from reimbursement under government programs, as well as other regulatory or investigatory actions against our product candidates, our commercial or collaborative partners or us.. If we engage in strategic transactions that fail to achieve the anticipated results and synergies, our business will suffer.. We may seek to engage in strategic transactions with third parties, such as product or company acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, divestitures or business combinations. We may face significant competition in seeking potential strategic partners and transactions, and the negotiation process for acquiring any product or engaging in strategic transactions can be time-consuming and complex. Engaging in strategic transactions, such as our acquisition in 2015 of the U.S. rights to NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER, and our completion in 2018 of the commercialization. 23. Table of Contents. arrangement covering NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER with Collegium, may require us to incur non-recurring and other charges, increase our near- and long-term expenditures, pose integration challenges and fail to achieve the anticipated results or synergies or distract our management and business, which may harm our business.. As part of an effort to acquire a product or company or to enter into other strategic transactions, we conduct business, legal and financial due diligence with the goal of identifying, evaluating and assessing material risks involved in the transaction. Despite our efforts, we ultimately may be unsuccessful in ascertaining, evaluating and accurately assessing all such risks and, as a result, might not realize the intended advantages of the transaction. We may also assume liabilities and legal risks in connection with a transaction, including those relating to activities of the seller prior to the consummation of the transaction and contracts that we assume. Failure to realize the expected benefits from acquisitions or strategic transactions that we may consummate, or that we have completed, such as the acquisition in 2015 of the U.S. rights to NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER, and the recently completed commercialization arrangement covering NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER with Collegium, whether as a result of identified or unidentified risks, integration difficulties, regulatory setbacks, governmental investigations, litigation or other events, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our failure to generate sufficient cash flow from our business to make payments on our debt would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have incurred significant indebtedness in the aggregate principal amount of $710.0 million at December 31, 2017 under the senior secured notes we issued in April 2015 (the Senior Notes) and the convertible notes we issued in September 2014 (the Convertible Notes). Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance the Convertible Notes, the Senior Notes and any additional debt obligations we may incur depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors that may be beyond our control. Our business may not generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and to make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on commercially reasonable or acceptable terms, which could result in a default on our obligations, including the Convertible Notes and the Senior Notes.. In addition, our significant indebtedness, combined with our other financial obligations and contractual commitments, could have other important consequences to our business. For example, it could:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake it more difficult for us to meet our payment and other obligations under the Convertible Notes, the Senior Secured Notes or our other indebtedness;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tresult in an event of default if we fail to comply with the financial and other covenants contained in the Note Purchase Agreement, which event of default could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsubject us to the risk of increased sensitivity to interest rate increases on our indebtedness with variable interest rates, including the Senior Notes;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequire the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes, including working capital, clinical trials, research and development, business development activities, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprevent us from raising funds necessary to repurchase the Convertible Notes in the event we are required to do so following a \"fundamental change,\" as specified in the indenture governing the Convertible Notes, to repurchase the Senior Notes in the event we are required to do so following a \"major transaction\" or as required in the event that the principal amount outstanding under the Convertible Notes as of March 31, 2021 is greater than $100.0 million, as specified in the Note Purchase Agreement or to settle conversions of the Convertible Notes in cash;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tresult in dilution to our existing shareholders as a result of the conversion of the Convertible Notes into shares of common stock;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry;. 24. Table of Contents. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tput us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt; and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital and other general corporate purposes, including funding possible acquisitions of, or investments in, additional products, technologies and companies.. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we incur additional indebtedness, the risks related to our business and our ability to service or repay our indebtedness would increase.. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to settle conversions of the Convertible Notes in cash, to repurchase the Convertible Notes upon a fundamental change or to repurchase the Senior Notes upon a major transaction put or as required in the event that the principal amount outstanding under the Convertible Notes as of March 31, 2021 is greater than $100.0 million.. Holders of the Convertible Notes will have the right to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their Convertible Notes upon the occurrence of certain events, including events deemed to be a \"fundamental change,\" at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the outstanding Convertible Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. Upon conversion of the Convertible Notes, unless we elect to deliver solely shares of our common stock to settle such conversion (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we will be required to make cash payments in respect of the Convertible Notes being converted.. Furthermore, holders of the Senior Notes will have the right to require us to repurchase all of their Senior Notes (i) if the principal amount outstanding under the Convertible Notes as of March 31, 2021 is greater than $100.0 million, at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the outstanding Senior Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, or (ii) upon the occurrence of certain events deemed to be a \"major transaction\" at a repurchase price equal to: (a) 100% of the principal amount of the outstanding Senior Notes to be repurchased, plus (b) accrued and unpaid interest, if any, plus (c) a prepayment premium, which may be substantial.. However, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make repurchases of Convertible Notes or Senior Notes or pay cash with respect to Convertible Notes being converted. In addition, our ability to repurchase or to pay cash upon conversion of the Convertible Notes may be limited by law, regulatory authority or agreements governing our future indebtedness. An event of default under the indenture governing the Convertible Notes, including our failure to repurchase Convertible Notes when required by the indenture governing the Convertible Notes, would constitute a default under the Note Purchase Agreement. In addition, an event of default under the Note Purchase Agreement, including our failure to repurchase Senior Notes when the repurchase is required by the Note Purchase Agreement, would constitute a default under the indenture governing the Convertible Notes. Moreover, the occurrence of a fundamental change under the indenture governing the Convertible Notes or a major transaction under the Note Purchase Agreement could constitute an event of default under either the indenture governing the Convertible Notes or the Note Purchase Agreement, as applicable and any agreements that may govern any future indebtedness. Following an event of default, if the payment of our outstanding indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay such indebtedness.. Acquisition of new and complementary businesses, products and technologies is a key element of our corporate strategy. If we are unable to successfully identify and acquire such businesses, products or technologies, our business growth and prospects will be limited.. Since June 2012, we have acquired NUCYNTA, NUCYNTA ER, CAMBIA, and Zipsor, exclusively in-licensed the right to develop and commercialize cebranopadol, and in-licensed the right to market cosyntropin. An important element of our business strategy is to actively seek to acquire products or companies and to in-license or seek co-promotion rights to additional products. We cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully identify, pursue and complete any further acquisitions or whether we would be able to successfully integrate any acquired business, product or technology or retain any key employees. If we are unable to enhance and broaden our product offerings, our business and prospects will be limited.. 25. Table of Contents. If we are unable to successfully integrate any business, product or technology we may acquire, our business, financial condition and operating results will suffer.. Integrating any business, product or technology we acquire is expensive, time consuming and can disrupt and adversely affect our ongoing business, including product sales, and distract our management. Our ability to successfully integrate any business, product or technology we acquire depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tminimize the disruption and distraction of our management and other employees, including our sales force, in connection with the integration of any acquired business, product or technology;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmaintain and increase sales of our existing products;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\testablish or manage the transition of the manufacture and supply of any acquired product, including the necessary active pharmaceutical ingredients, excipients and components;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tidentify and add the necessary sales, marketing, manufacturing, regulatory and other related personnel, capabilities and infrastructure that are required to successfully integrate any acquired business, product or technology;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmanage the transition and migration of all commercial, financial, legal, clinical, regulatory and other pertinent information relating to any acquired business, product or technology;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcomply with legal, regulatory and contractual requirements applicable to any acquired business, product or technology;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tobtain and maintain adequate coverage, reimbursement and pricing from managed care, government and other third-party payers with respect to any acquired product; and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmaintain and extend intellectual property protection for any acquired product or technology.. If we are unable to perform the above functions or otherwise effectively integrate any acquired businesses, products or technologies, our business, financial condition and operating results will suffer.. Health care reform could increase our expenses and adversely affect the commercial success of our products.. The ACA includes numerous provisions that affect pharmaceutical companies. For example, the ACA seeks to expand healthcare coverage to the uninsured through private health insurance reforms and an expansion of Medicaid. The ACA also imposes substantial costs on pharmaceutical manufacturers, such as an increase in liability for rebates paid to Medicaid, new drug discounts that must be offered to certain enrollees in the Medicare prescription drug benefit and an annual fee imposed on all manufacturers of brand prescription drugs in the U.S. The ACA also requires increased disclosure obligations and an expansion of an existing program requiring pharmaceutical discounts to certain types of hospitals and federally subsidized clinics and contains cost-containment measures that could reduce reimbursement levels for pharmaceutical products. The ACA also includes provisions known as the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which require manufacturers of drugs, biologics, devices and medical supplies covered under Medicare and Medicaid to record any transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals and to report this data to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services for subsequent public disclosure. Similar reporting requirements have also been enacted on the state level domestically, and an increasing number of countries worldwide either have adopted or are considering similar laws requiring transparency of interactions with health care professionals. Failure to report appropriate data may result in civil or criminal fines and/or penalties. These and other aspects of the ACA, including regulations that may be imposed in connection with the implementation of the ACA, such as the 340B Program, could increase our expenses and adversely affect our ability to successfully commercialize our products and product candidates.. Many members of Congress and President Trump have pledged to repeal the ACA. In January 2017, the House and Senate passed a budget resolution that authorizes congressional committees to draft legislation to repeal all or portions of the ACA and permits such legislation to pass with a majority vote in the Senate.  President Trump also recently issued an executive order in which he stated that it is his administration's policy to seek the prompt repeal of the ACA and directed executive departments and federal agencies to waive, defer, grant exemptions from, or delay the implementation of burdensome provisions of the ACA to the maximum extent permitted by law. Although several attempts to repeal and replace the ACA failed to pass both houses of Congress, there is still uncertainty with respect to the impact President Trump's administration and the Congress may have, if any, and any changes will likely take time to unfold. Any new laws or regulations that have the effect of imposing additional costs or regulatory burden on pharmaceutical manufacturers, or otherwise negatively affect the industry, could adversely affect our ability to successfully commercialize our products and product candidates. In addition, President Trump has indicated that. 26. Table of Contents. reducing the price of prescription drugs will be a priority of his administration. The implementation of any price controls or caps on prescription drugs, whether at the federal level or state level, could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. If we or our collaborative partners are unable to obtain or maintain regulatory approval for our products, our raw materials or product candidates, we will be limited in our ability to commercialize our products, and our business will suffer.. The regulatory process is expensive and time consuming. Even after investing significant time and expenditures on clinical trials, we may not obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates. Data obtained from clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval, and the FDA may not agree with our methods of clinical data analysis or our conclusions regarding safety and/or efficacy. Significant clinical trial delays could impair our ability to commercialize our products and could allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do. In addition, changes in regulatory policy for product approval during the period of product development and regulatory agency review of each submitted new application may cause delays or rejections. Even if we receive regulatory approval, this approval may entail limitations on the indicated uses for which we can market a product.. Further, with respect to our approved products, once regulatory approval is obtained, a marketed product and its manufacturer are subject to continual review. The discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or manufacturer may result in restrictions on the product, manufacturer or manufacturing facility, including withdrawal of the product from the market. Manufacturers of approved products are also subject to ongoing regulation and inspection, including compliance with FDA regulations governing current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) or Quality System Regulation (QSR). The FDCA, the Controlled Substances Act of 1970 (CSA) and other federal and foreign statutes and regulations govern and influence the testing, manufacturing, packing, labeling, storing, record keeping, safety, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of our products. In addition, we and our partners are also subject to ongoing DEA regulatory obligations, including annual registration renewal, security, recordkeeping, theft and loss reporting, periodic inspection and annual quota allotments for the raw material for commercial production of our products. The failure to comply with these regulations could result in, among other things, warning letters, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, non-renewal of marketing applications or authorizations or criminal prosecution, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We are also required to report adverse events associated with our products to the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Unexpected or serious health or safety concerns could result in labeling changes, recalls, market withdrawals or other regulatory actions. Recalls may be issued at our discretion or at the discretion of the FDA or other empowered regulatory agencies. For example, in June 2010, we instituted a voluntary class 2 recall of 52 lots of our 500mg Glumetza product after chemical traces of 2,4,6-tribromoanisole (TBA) were found in the product bottle.. If a product liability claim against us is successful, our business will suffer.. Our business involves exposure to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the development, production and commercialization of pharmaceutical products. Side effects, manufacturing defects, misuse or abuse of any of our products could result in patient injury or death. Patient injury, abuse, or death can result in product liability claims being brought against us, even if our products did not cause an injury, abuse, or death. Product liability claims may be brought against us by consumers, health care providers, pharmaceutical companies or others who come into contact with our products.. We have obtained product liability insurance for sales of our products and clinical trials currently underway, but:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may be unable to maintain product liability insurance on acceptable terms;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may be unable to obtain product liability insurance for future trials;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may be unable to obtain product liability insurance for future products; or. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour insurance may not provide adequate protection against potential liabilities.. Our inability to obtain or maintain adequate insurance coverage at an acceptable cost could prevent or inhibit. 27. Table of Contents. the commercialization of our products. Defending a lawsuit could be costly and significantly divert management's attention from conducting our business. If third parties were to bring a successful product liability claim or series of claims against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liability limits, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Any failure by us or our commercialization or collaborative partners to comply with applicable statutes or regulations relating to controlled substances could adversely affect our business.. Each of NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER are opioid analgesics that contain tapentadol. Tapentadol is a regulated \"controlled substance\" under the CSA. The CSA establishes, among other things, certain registration, production quotas, security, recordkeeping, reporting, import, export and other requirements administered by the DEA. The DEA regulates controlled substances as Schedule I, II, III, IV or V substances, with Schedule II substances being the pharmaceutical products that present the highest risk of abuse. Tapentadol is listed by the DEA as a Schedule II substance under the CSA. The manufacture, shipment, storage, sale and use, among other things, of controlled substances that are pharmaceutical products are subject to a high degree of regulation. For example, generally all Schedule II substance prescriptions must be written and signed by a physician, physically presented to a pharmacist and may not be refilled without a new prescription.. The DEA also conducts periodic inspections of certain registered establishments that handle controlled substances. Facilities that conduct research, manufacture, distribute, import or export controlled substances must be registered to perform these activities and have the security, control and inventory mechanisms required by the DEA to prevent drug loss and diversion. Failure to maintain compliance, particularly non-compliance resulting in loss or diversion, can result in regulatory action that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The DEA may seek civil penalties, refuse to renew necessary registrations, or initiate proceedings to restrict, suspend or revoke those registrations and in certain circumstances, violations could lead to criminal proceedings against us or our manufacturing and distribution partners, and our respective employees, officers and directors.. In addition to federal regulations, many individual states also have controlled substances laws. Although state controlled substances laws generally mirror federal law, because the states are separate jurisdictions they may separately schedule our products. Any failure by us or our partners to obtain separate state registrations, permits or licenses in order to be able to obtain, handle and distribute tapentadol or to meet applicable regulatory requirements could lead to enforcement and sanctions by the states in addition to those from the DEA or otherwise arising under federal law and could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Limitations on the production of Schedule II substances in the U.S. could limit the ability of Collegium to successfully commercialize NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER.. The availability and production of all Schedule II substances, including tapentadol, is limited by the DEA through a quota system that includes a national aggregate quota, production quotas for individual manufacturers and procurement quotas that authorize the procurement of specific quantities of Schedule II controlled substances for use in drug product manufacturing. The DEA annually establishes an aggregate quota for total tapentadol production in the U.S. based on the DEA's estimate of the quantity needed to meet commercial and scientific need. The aggregate quota of tapentadol that the DEA allows to be produced in the U.S. annually is allocated among applicable individual drug manufacturers, which must submit applications at least annually to the DEA for individual production quotas. In turn, our third party manufacturers of NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER have to obtain a procurement quota to source tapentadol for the production of NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER.. The DEA requires substantial evidence and documentation of expected legitimate medical and scientific needs before assigning quotas for these activities. The DEA may adjust aggregate production quotas and individual production and procurement quotas from time to time during the year, although the DEA has substantial discretion in whether or not to make such adjustments. Based on a variety of factors, including public policy considerations, the DEA may set the aggregate quota lower for tapentadol than the total amount requested by individual manufacturers. Although through our manufacturing partner we are permitted to ask the DEA to increase our manufacturer's procurement quota after it is initially established, we cannot be certain that the DEA would act favorably upon such a request. In addition, our manufacturers obtain a procurement quota for tapentadol for all tapentadol products manufactured at their facility, which is allocated to NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER, as applicable, at the manufacturer's discretion. If the available quota of tapentadol is insufficient to meet commercial demand or clinical needs, our business, results of operations and financial. 28. Table of Contents. condition could be adversely affected. Further, during the 2016 presidential campaign, President Trump called for the DEA to restrict the amount of opioids that can be manufactured in the U.S. The DEA also recently proposed reducing the quota for controlled substances to be manufactured in the U.S. in 2018.  Any delay or refusal by the DEA or our manufacturers in establishing the production or procurement quota or granting sufficient production or procurement quota to meet commercial demand, or any reduction by the DEA or our manufacturer in the allocated quota for tapentadol, could adversely affect the ability of Collegium to commercialize NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER and in turn adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The FDA-mandated Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy program may limit the commercial success of NUCYNTA ER and potentially NUCYNTA.. NUCYNTA ER is subject to a FDA-mandated Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) protocol that requires enrollment and participation in the REMS program to prescribe, dispense or distribute such products for outpatient use. Many physicians, health care practitioners and pharmacies are unwilling to enroll and participate in the REMS programs. As a result, there are relatively few prescribers and dispensers of products subject to REMS protocols. In addition, the FDA recently mandated a REMS protocol for NUCYNTA. If Collegium is not able to successfully promote NUCYNTA ER and NUCYNTA to participants in the applicable REMS program, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. The market price of our common stock historically has been volatile. Our results of operations may fluctuate and affect our stock price.. The trading price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. From December 31, 2015 through December 31, 2017, our stock price has ranged from $4.31 to $27.02 per share.. Factors affecting our operating results and that could adversely affect our stock price include:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe degree of commercial success and market acceptance of NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER achieved by Collegium;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe degree of commercial success and market acceptance of Gralise, CAMBIA and Zipsor achieved by us;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe current and future market conditions for short-acting and long-acting opioids;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfilings and other regulatory or governmental actions, investigations or proceedings related to our products and product candidate and those of our commercialization and collaborative partners;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe reversal or any appeal of the court's favorable ruling in our patent infringement litigation against the filers of ANDAs for NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdevelopments concerning proprietary rights, including patents, infringement allegations, inter party review proceedings and litigation matters;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlegal and regulatory developments in the U.S.;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactions taken by industry stakeholders affecting the market for our products;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to generate sufficient cash flow from our business to make payments on our indebtedness;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour and our commercialization and collaborative partners' compliance or non-compliance with legal and regulatory requirements and with obligations under our collaborative agreements;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to successfully develop and execute our sales and marketing strategies;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour plans to acquire, in-license or co-promote other products, compounds or acquire or combine with other companies, and our degree of success in realizing the intended advantages of, and mitigating any risks associated with, any such transaction;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to successfully commercialize cosyntropin if regulatory approval is obtained;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadverse events related to our products, including recalls;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinterruptions of manufacturing or supply, or other manufacture or supply difficulties;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tvariations in revenues obtained from commercialization and collaborative agreements, including contingent milestone payments, royalties, license fees and other contract revenues;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadverse events or circumstances related to our peer companies or our industry or the markets for our products;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadoption of new technologies by us or our competitors;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe outcome of our patent infringement litigation against Purdue;. 29. Table of Contents. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe outcome and impact of a proxy contest initiated by an activist shareholder;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour compliance with the terms and conditions of the agreements governing our indebtedness;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdecisions by collaborative partners to proceed or not to proceed with subsequent phases of a collaboration or program;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsales of large blocks of our common stock or the dilutive effect of our Convertible Notes; and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tvariations in our operating results, earnings per share, cash flows from operating activities, deferred revenue, and other financial metrics and non-financial metrics, and how those results are measured, presented and compare to analyst expectations.. As a result of these factors, our stock price may continue to be volatile and investors may be unable to sell their shares at a price equal to, or above, the price paid. Any significant drops in our stock price could give rise to shareholder lawsuits, which are costly and time consuming to defend against and which may adversely affect our ability to raise capital while the suits are pending, even if the suits are ultimately resolved in our favor.. In addition, if the market for pharmaceutical stocks or the stock market in general experiences uneven investor confidence, the market price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results or financial condition. For example, if one or more securities or industry analysts downgrades our stock or publishes an inaccurate research report about our company, the market price for our common stock would likely decline. The market price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies within, or outside, our industry even if these events do not directly affect us.. We have incurred operating losses in the past and may incur operating losses in the future.. To date, we have recorded revenues from product sales, license fees, royalties, collaborative research and development arrangements and feasibility studies. In 2017, 2016 and 2015 we incurred net losses of $102.5 million. $88.7 million and $75.7 million, respectively. We expect to incur operating losses in 2018 and may continue to incur operating losses in future years. Any such losses may have an adverse impact on our total assets, shareholders' equity and working capital.. Our existing capital resources may not be sufficient to fund our future operations or product acquisitions and strategic transactions that we may pursue.. We fund our operations primarily through revenues from product sales and do not have any committed sources of capital. To the extent that our existing capital resources and revenues from ongoing operations are insufficient to fund our future operations, or product acquisitions and strategic transactions that we may pursue, we will have to raise additional funds through the sale of our equity securities, through additional debt financing, from development and licensing arrangements or from the sale of assets. We may be unable to raise such additional capital on favorable terms, or at all. If we raise additional capital by selling our equity or convertible debt securities, the issuance of such securities could result in dilution of our shareholders' equity positions.. We have significant amounts of intangible assets which depend upon future positive cash flows to support the values recorded in our balance sheet. We may have an increased risk of future impairment charges should actual financial results differ materially from our projections.. Our consolidated balance sheet contains significant amounts of intangible assets representing the product rights which we have acquired over the last few years. We review the carrying value of our intangible assets when indicators of impairment are present. Conditions that could indicate impairment of intangible assets include, but are not limited to, a significant adverse change in market conditions, significant competing product launches by our competitors and the legal or regulatory environment.. 30. Table of Contents. In performing our impairment tests, we utilize our future projections of cash flows. Projections of future cash flows are inherently subjective and reflect assumptions that may or may not ultimately be realized. Significant assumptions utilized in our projections include, but are not limited to, our evaluation of the market opportunity for our products, the current and future competitive landscape and resulting impacts to product pricing, future regulatory actions, planned strategic initiatives and the realization of benefits associated with our existing patents. Given the inherent subjectivity and uncertainty in projections, we could experience significant unfavorable variances in future periods or revise our projections downward. This would result in an increased risk that our intangible assets may be impaired. If an impairment were recognized, this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our customer concentration may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We and our commercialization partners sell a significant amount of our products to a limited number of independent wholesale drug distributors. Three of our wholesale distributors represented 36%, 27% and 26% for the year ended December 31, 2017 and 36%, 27% and 25% for the year ended December 31, 2016 and 36%, 24% and 27% of our product shipments for the year ended December 31, 2015. If we, or our commercialization partners, were to lose the business of one or more of these distributors, if any of these distributors failed to fulfill their obligations, if any of these distributors experienced difficulty in paying us or our commercialization partners on a timely basis, or if any of these distributors negotiated lower pricing terms, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our product revenues have historically been lower in the first quarter of the year as compared to the fourth quarter of the preceding year, which may cause our stock price to decline.. Our product revenues have historically been lower in the first quarter of the year as compared to the fourth quarter of the preceding year. We believe this arises primarily as a result of wholesalers' reductions of inventory of our products in the first quarter and annual changes in health insurance plans that occur at the beginning of the calendar year.. In 2013, 2014, 2015, and 2016, our wholesalers ended the calendar year with higher levels of inventory of our products than at the end of the first quarter of the following year. As a result, in the first quarters of 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017, net sales were lower than would otherwise have been the case as a result of the reduction of product inventory at our wholesalers. Any material reduction by our wholesalers of their inventory of our products in the first quarter of any calendar year as compared to the fourth quarter of the preceding calendar year, could adversely affect our operating results and may cause our stock price to decline.. Many health insurance plans and government programs reset annual limits on deductibles and out-of-pocket costs at the beginning of each calendar year and require participants to pay for substantially all of the costs of medical services and prescription drug products until such deductibles and annual out-of-pocket cost limits are met. In addition, enrollment in high-deductible health insurance plans has increased significantly in recent years. As a result of these factors, patients may delay filling or refilling prescriptions for our products or substitute less expensive generic products until such deductibles and annual out-of-pocket cost limits are met. Any reduction in the demand for our products, including those marketed by our commercialization partners as a result of the foregoing factors or otherwise, could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our commercialization and collaborative arrangements may give rise to disputes over commercial terms, contract interpretation and ownership or protection of our intellectual property and may adversely affect the commercial success of our products.. We currently have a commercialization agreement with Collegium. We currently have collaboration or license arrangements with a number of companies, including Grunenthal, Janssen Pharma and Ironwood. In addition, we have in the past and may in the future enter into other commercialization or collaborative arrangements, some of which have been based on less definitive agreements, such as memoranda of understanding, material transfer agreements, options or feasibility agreements. We may not execute definitive agreements formalizing these arrangements.. Commercialization and collaborative relationships are generally complex and may give rise to disputes regarding the relative rights, obligations and revenues of the parties, including the ownership of intellectual property and associated rights and obligations, especially when the applicable collaborative provisions have not been fully negotiated. 31. Table of Contents. and documented. Such disputes can delay collaborative research, development or commercialization of potential products, and can lead to lengthy, expensive litigation or arbitration. The terms of such arrangements may also limit or preclude us from developing products or technologies developed pursuant to such collaborations. Additionally, the commercialization or collaborative partners under these arrangements might breach the terms of their respective agreements or fail to maintain, protect or prevent infringement of the licensed patents or our other intellectual property rights by third parties. Moreover, negotiating commercialization and collaborative arrangements often takes considerably longer to conclude than the parties initially anticipate, which could cause us to enter into less favorable agreement terms that delay or defer recovery of our development costs and reduce the funding available to support key programs. Any failure by our commercialization or collaborative partners to abide by the terms of their respective agreements with us, including their failure to accurately calculate, report or pay any royalties payable to us, may adversely affect our results of operations.. We may be unable to enter into future commercialization or collaborative arrangements on acceptable terms, which could harm our ability to develop and commercialize our current and potential future products and technologies. Other factors relating to collaborations that may adversely affect the commercial success of our products include:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tany parallel development by a commercialization or collaborative partner of competitive technologies or products;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tarrangements with commercialization or collaborative partners that limit or preclude us from developing products or technologies;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpremature termination of a commercialization or collaboration agreement; or. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfailure by a commercialization or collaborative partner to devote sufficient resources to the development and commercial sales of products using our current and potential future products and technologies.. Our commercialization or collaborative arrangements do not necessarily restrict our commercialization or collaborative partners from competing with us or restrict their ability to market or sell competitive products. Our current and any future commercialization or collaborative partners may pursue existing or other development-stage products or alternative technologies in preference to those being commercialized or developed in collaboration with us. Our commercialization or collaborative partners may also terminate their relationships with us or otherwise decide not to proceed with development or commercialization of our products.. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property and may be liable for infringing the intellectual property of others.. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products and technologies, and to preserve our trade secrets. Our policy is to seek to protect our proprietary rights by, among other methods, filing patent applications in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions to cover certain aspects of our technology. We hold issued U.S. patents and have patent applications pending in the U.S. In addition, we are pursuing patent applications relating to our technologies in the U.S. and abroad. We have also applied for patents in numerous foreign countries. Some of those countries have granted our applications and other applications are still pending. Our pending patent applications may lack priority over other applications or may not result in the issuance of patents. Even if issued, our patents may not be sufficiently broad to provide protection against competitors with similar technologies and may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing related products or may not provide us with competitive advantages against competing products. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how, which are difficult to protect. We seek to protect such information, in part, by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, collaborative partners and others before such persons or entities have access to our proprietary trade secrets and know-how. These confidentiality agreements may not be effective in certain cases, due to, among other things, the lack of an adequate remedy for breach of an agreement or a finding that an agreement is unenforceable. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors.. Our ability to develop our technologies and to make commercial sales of products using our technologies also depends on not infringing other patents or intellectual property rights. We are not aware of any such intellectual property claims directly against us. The pharmaceutical industry has experienced extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Patents issued to third parties relating to sustained release drug formulations or particular pharmaceutical compounds could in the future be asserted against us, although we believe that we do not infringe any valid claim of any patents. However, in February 2018 Purdue sued Collegium for infringement of three patents owned. 32. Table of Contents. by Purdue that were issued in January 2018 and expire in 2022 arising from Collegium's commercialization of the Nucynta franchise of products.  Although we are not a defendant in the suit, Purdue has identified Depomed as an infringer of the patents due to Depomed's manufacture of the products. If claims concerning any of our products were to arise and it was determined that these products infringe a third party's proprietary rights, we or our commercial partners could be subject to substantial damages for past infringement or could be forced to stop or delay activities with respect to any infringing product, unless we or our commercial partner, as applicable, can obtain a license, or our product may need to be redesigned so that it does not infringe upon such third party's patent rights, which may not be possible or could require substantial funds or time. Such a license may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we, our collaborators or our licensors were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which could give our competitors access to the same intellectual property. In addition, any public announcements related to litigation or interference proceedings initiated or threatened against us, even if such claims are without merit, could cause our stock price to decline.. From time to time, we may become aware of activities by third parties that may infringe our patents. Infringement of our patents by others may reduce our market shares (if a related product is approved) and, consequently, our potential future revenues and adversely affect our patent rights if we do not take appropriate enforcement action. We may need to engage in litigation to enforce any patents issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. For instance, we have previously been engaged in ANDA litigation involving NUCYNTA, NUCYNTA ER and NUCYNTA oral solution as well as Gralise and Zipsor. It is possible our issued or licensed patents may not be held valid by a court of competent jurisdiction or the PTAB. Whether or not the outcome of litigation or the PTAB proceeding is favorable to us, the litigation and the proceedings may take significant time, may be expensive and may divert management's attention from other business concerns. We may also be required to participate in derivation proceedings or other post-grant proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office for the purposes of, respectively, determining the priority of inventions in connection with our patent applications or determining validity of claims in our issued patents. Adverse determinations in litigation or proceedings at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and could require us to seek licenses which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or subject us to significant liabilities to third parties. If we need but cannot obtain a license, we may be prevented from marketing the affected product.. We are subject to risks associated with NDAs submitted under Section 505(b)(2) of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act.. The products we develop or acquire generally are or will be submitted for approval under Section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA, which was enacted as part of the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, otherwise known as the Hatch-Waxman Act. Section 505(b)(2) permits the submission of an NDA where at least some of the information required for approval comes from studies not conducted by or for the applicant and for which the applicant has not obtained a right of reference. For instance, the NDA for Gralise relies on the FDA's prior approval of Neurontin, the immediate release formulation of gabapentin initially approved by the FDA.. For NDAs submitted under Section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA, the patent certification and related provisions of the Hatch-Waxman Act apply. In accordance with the Hatch-Waxman Act, such NDAs may be required to include certifications, known as \"Paragraph IV certifications,\" that certify any patents listed in the Orange Book publication in respect to any product referenced in the 505(b)(2) application are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by the manufacture, use or sale of the product that is the subject of the 505(b)(2) application. Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, the holder of the NDA which the 505(b)(2) application references may file a patent infringement lawsuit after receiving notice of the Paragraph IV certification. Filing of a patent infringement lawsuit triggers a one-time automatic 30-month stay of the FDA's ability to approve the 505(b)(2) application. Accordingly, we may invest a significant amount of time and expense in the development of one or more products only to be subject to significant delay and patent litigation before such products may be commercialized, if at all. A Section 505(b)(2) application may also not be approved until any non-patent exclusivity, such as exclusivity for obtaining approval of a new chemical entity, listed in the Orange Book for the referenced product has expired. The FDA may also require us to perform one or more additional clinical studies or measurements to support the change from the approved product. The FDA may then approve the new formulation for all or only some of the indications sought by us. The FDA may also reject our future Section 505(b)(2) submissions and may require us to file such submissions under Section 501(b)(1) of the FDCA, which could be considerably more expensive and time consuming.. 33. Table of Contents. The development of drug candidates such as cosyntropin, is inherently difficult and uncertain, and we cannot be certain that any of our product candidates or those of our collaborative partners will be approved for marketing or, if approved, will achieve market acceptance.. Clinical development is a long, expensive and uncertain process and is subject to delays and failures. As a condition to regulatory approval, each product candidate must undergo extensive and expensive preclinical studies and clinical trials to demonstrate to a statistically significant degree that the product candidate is safe and effective. The results at any stage of the development process may lack the desired safety, efficacy or pharmacokinetic characteristics. Positive or encouraging results of prior clinical trials are not necessarily indicative of the results obtained in later clinical trials, as has occurred in the past in certain of our Phase 3 trials. Further, product candidates in later clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy despite having progressed in development. In addition, data obtained from pivotal clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval.. Product candidates, such as cosyntropin, are subject to the risk that any or all of them may be found to be ineffective or unsafe, or otherwise may fail to receive necessary regulatory clearances. The FDA or other applicable regulatory agencies may determine that our data is not sufficiently compelling to warrant marketing approval and require us to engage in additional clinical trials or provide further analysis, which may be costly and time-consuming. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including us, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even in advanced clinical trials after showing positive results in preclinical studies or earlier clinical trials. If our current or future product candidates fail at any stage of development, they will not receive regulatory approval, we will not be able to commercialize them and we will not receive any return on our investment in those product candidates.. Other factors could delay or result in the termination of our current and future clinical trials and related development programs, including:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnegative or inconclusive results;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpatient noncompliance with the protocol;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadverse medical events or side effects among patients during the clinical trials;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tFDA inspections of our clinical operations;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfailure of our third party clinical trial vendors to comply with applicable regulatory laws and regulations;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcompliance with applicable laws and regulations;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinability of our third party clinical trial vendors to satisfactorily perform their contractual obligations, comply with applicable laws and regulations or meet deadlines;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdelays or failures in obtaining clinical materials and manufacturing sufficient quantities of the product candidate for use in our clinical trials. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdelays or failures in recruiting qualified patients to participate in our clinical trials; and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactual or perceived lack of efficacy or safety of the product candidate.. We are unable to predict whether any product candidates, including cosyntropin, will receive regulatory clearances or be successfully manufactured or marketed. Further, due to the extended testing and regulatory review process required before marketing clearance can be obtained, the time frame for commercializing a product is long and uncertain. Even if cosyntropin and any other product candidates receive regulatory clearance, these products may not achieve or maintain market acceptance. If it is discovered that our or our collaborators' products or technologies could have adverse effects or other characteristics that indicate they may be ineffective as therapeutics, our product development efforts and our business could be significantly harmed.. Even assuming our or our collaborative partners' products obtain regulatory approval, successful commercialization requires:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmarket acceptance;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ta cost-effective commercial scale production; and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\treimbursement under private or governmental health plans.. Any material delay or failure in the governmental approval process and/or the successful commercialization of our potential products or those of our collaborative partners could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 34. Table of Contents. We and our collaborative partners customarily depend on third party contract research organizations, clinical investigators and clinical sites to conduct clinical trials with regard to product candidates, and if they do not perform their regulatory, legal and contractual obligations, or successfully enroll patients in and manage our clinical trials, we and our collaborative partners may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals for product candidates, including cosyntropin.. We and our collaborative partners customarily rely on third party contract research organizations and other third parties to assist us in designing, managing, monitoring and otherwise conducting clinical trials. We and our collaborative partners do not control these third parties and, as a result, we and our collaborative partners may be unable to control the amount and timing of resources that they devote to our or our collaborative partners' clinical trials.. Although we and our collaborative partners rely on third parties to conduct clinical trials, we and our collaborative partners are responsible for confirming that each clinical trials is conducted in accordance with its general investigational plan and protocol, as well as the FDA's and  other applicable regulatory agencies' requirements, including good clinical practices, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to ensure that the data and results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. If we, contract research organizations or other third parties assisting us or our collaborative partners with clinical trials fail to comply with applicable good clinical practices, the clinical data generated in such clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA, or other applicable regulatory agencies, may require us or our collaborative partners to perform additional clinical trials before approving any marketing applications with regard to product candidates. We cannot be certain that, upon inspection, the FDA or other applicable regulatory agencies will determine that any of our clinical trials or our collaborative partners comply with good clinical practices. In addition, clinical trials must be conducted with product produced under the FDA's cGMP regulations and similar regulations outside of the U.S. Our or our collaborative partners' failure, or the failure of our product manufacturers, to comply with these regulations may require the repeat or redesign of clinical trials, which would delay the regulatory approval process.. We and our collaborative partners also customarily rely on clinical investigators and clinical sites to enroll patients and other third parties to manage clinical trials and to perform related data collection and analysis. If clinical investigators and clinical sites fail to enroll a sufficient number of patients in such clinical trials or fail to enroll them on the planned schedule, these trials may not be completed or completed as planned, which could delay or prevent us or our collaborative partners from obtaining regulatory approvals for product candidates.. Agreements with clinical investigators and clinical sites for clinical testing and for trial management services place substantial responsibilities on these parties, which could result in delays in, or termination of, clinical trials if these parties fail to perform as expected. If these clinical investigators, clinical sites or other third parties do not carry out their contractual duties or obligations or fail to meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to their failure to adhere to clinical protocols or for other reasons, clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, and we and our collaborative partners may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize, product candidates.. We have recently experienced a significant transition in our Board of Directors and executive management.. We recently experienced significant changes in our Board of Directors and executive management team. If our newly appointed directors, Chief Executive Officer and executive officers are not able to timely develop, implement and execute successful business strategies and plans to maintain and increase our product revenues, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, the changes to our Board of Directors and executive management team may result in disruption to the operation of our business. While our newly appointed Chief Executive Officer has significant industry-related experience, he has not previously worked together with some of the other members of our executive management team and it may take time for the team to become fully integrated. Any delay in the integration of our Board of Directors or executive management team could affect our ability to develop, implement and execute our business strategies and plans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Further, as a result of the changes to our Board of Directors and executive management, the future business strategies and plans of the Company may differ materially from those we previously pursued. If our business strategies and plans, including our recent commercialization arrangement with Collegium, cause disruption in our business or operations or do not achieve the level of success or results we anticipate, our business, financial condition and results of. 35. Table of Contents. operations will be materially and adversely affected.. Our ability to successfully manage our transition to our new headquarters could result in a material adverse effect on our business or operations if we underestimate the costs of the transition, experience delays or quality issues with our manufacturing, or if internal measures to mitigate these risks are not effective.. On December 4, 2017, the Company announced its plan to relocate its corporate headquarters to a different state and reduce its staff.  The transition may involve unanticipated delays, which could materially impact our desired commercial timelines, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to move into our new headquarters without any material interruption to our business. There may also be additional costs and delays associated with relocation to the new headquarters and such costs may exceed our projections.. Furthermore, we may face significant challenges in relocating our principal executive office to a different state, including difficulties in retaining and attracting officers, key personnel and other employees and challenges in maintaining the continuity of our operations. Employees who are not relocating to our new headquarters will be terminated throughout the first half of 2018 and as a result, may be distracted as they search for new employment. Management may also be required to devote substantial time to relocating our corporate headquarters and related matters, which could otherwise be devoted to focusing on ongoing business operations and other initiatives and opportunities. Any such difficulties could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Our success is dependent in large part upon the continued services of our executive management with whom we do not have employment agreements.. Our success is dependent in large part upon the continued services of members of our executive management team, and on our ability to attract and retain key management and operating personnel, especially in light of our announced headquarters relocation. We do not have agreements with any of our executive officers that provide for their continued employment with us. We may have difficulty filling open senior commercial, scientific and financial positions. Management, scientific and operating personnel are in high demand in our industry and are often subject to competing offers. The loss of the services of one or more members of management or key employees or the inability to hire additional personnel as needed could result in delays in the research, development and commercialization of our products and potential product candidates.. Our financial results are impacted by management's assumptions and use of estimates.. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used when accounting for amounts recorded in connection with acquisitions, including initial fair value determinations of assets and liabilities as well as subsequent fair value measurements. Additionally, estimates are used in determining items such as sales discounts and returns, depreciable and amortizable lives, share-based compensation assumptions, fair value of contingent consideration and taxes on income. Although management believes these estimates are based upon reasonable assumptions within the bounds of its knowledge of the Company's business and operations, actual results could differ materially from these estimates.. If we are unable to satisfy regulatory requirements relating to internal controls, our stock price could suffer.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires companies to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of the effectiveness of their internal control over financial reporting. At the end of each fiscal year, we must perform an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting, include in our annual report the results of the evaluation and have our external auditors also publicly attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.. Our ability to produce accurate financial statements and comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations is largely dependent on our maintenance of internal control and reporting systems, as well as on our ability to attract and retain qualified management and accounting personnel to further develop our internal accounting function and control policies. If we fail to effectively establish and maintain such reporting and accounting systems or fail to attract and retain personnel who are capable of designing and operating such systems, these failures will increase the likelihood that we may be required to restate our financial results to correct errors or that we will become subject to legal and regulatory. 36. Table of Contents. infractions, which may entail civil litigation and investigations by regulatory agencies including the SEC. In addition, if material weaknesses are found in our internal controls in the future, if we fail to complete future evaluations on time or if our external auditors cannot attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, we could fail to meet our regulatory reporting requirements and be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal controls, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price or expose us to litigation or regulatory proceedings, which may be costly or divert management attention.. Changes in fair value of contingent consideration assumed as part of our acquisitions could adversely affect our results of operations.. Contingent consideration obligations arise from the Zipsor and CAMBIA acquisitions and relate to the potential future contingent milestone payments and royalties payable under the respective agreements. The contingent consideration is initially recognized at its fair value on the acquisition date and is re-measured to fair value at each reporting date until the contingency is resolved with changes in fair value recognized in earnings. The estimates of fair values for the contingent consideration contain uncertainties as it involves assumptions about the probability assigned to the potential milestones and royalties being achieved and the discount rate. Significant judgment is employed in determining these assumptions as of the acquisition date and for each subsequent period. Updates to assumptions could have a significant impact on our results of operations in any given period.. The conditional conversion feature of the Convertible Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. In the event the conditional conversion feature of the Convertible Notes is triggered, holders of Convertible Notes will be entitled to convert the Convertible Notes at any time during specified periods at their option. If one or more holders elect to convert their Convertible Notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we would be required to settle a portion or all of our conversion obligation in cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their Convertible Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the Convertible Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital.. The accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as the Convertible Notes could have a material effect on our reported financial results.. In May 2008, FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. APB 14-1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement), which has subsequently been codified as Accounting Standards Codification 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options (ASC 470-20). Under ASC 470-20, an entity must separately account for the liability and equity components of the convertible debt instruments (such as the Convertible Notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the issuer's economic interest cost. The effect of ASC 470-20 on the accounting for the Convertible Notes is that the equity component is required to be included in the additional paid-in capital within shareholders' equity on our consolidated balance sheet at the issuance date and the value of the equity component would be treated as debt discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of the Convertible Notes. As a result, we have been required to record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense as a result of the accretion of the discounted carrying value of the Convertible Notes to their face amount over the term of the notes. We will report lower net income (or larger net losses) in our financial results because ASC 470-20 requires interest to include both the accretion of the debt discount and the instrument's non-convertible coupon interest rate, which adversely affects our reported or future financial results and may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.. In addition, if the Convertible Notes become convertible, we are required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the Convertible Notes as a current rather than a long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital. Finally, we use the if-converted method to compute diluted earnings per share with respect to our convertible debt, which could be more dilutive than assuming the debt would be settled in cash.. Any of these factors could cause a decrease in the market price of our common stock.. 37. Table of Contents. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of any future proxy fight or the actions of activist shareholders.. On October 17, 2016, we and Starboard Value LP (Starboard) entered into a settlement agreement pursuant to which, among other things, (i) three independent directors appointed by Starboard joined our Board of Directors, (ii) we amended our bylaws to move the window for shareholders director nominations and other shareholder proposals for consideration at the 2017 annual meeting of shareholders to March 15, 2017 through April 15, 2017 and (iii) Starboard agreed to withdraw its request for the Special Meeting scheduled to be held on November 15, 2016. On March 28, 2017, we and Starboard entered into a cooperation and support agreement pursuant to which, among other things, two additional independent directors appointed by Starboard joined our Board of Directors and the parties agreed to certain standstill commitments.. Another proxy contest or related activities with Starboard or other activist shareholders, could adversely affect our business for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to the following:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tresponding to proxy contests and other actions by activist stockholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupting our operations and diverting the attention of management and our employees;. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tperceived uncertainties as to our future direction may result in the loss of potential business opportunities and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel, business partners, customers and others important to our success, any of which could negatively affect our business and our results of operations and financial condition; and. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tif nominees advanced by activist shareholders are elected or appointed to our Board of Directors with a specific agenda, it may adversely affect our ability to effectively and timely implement our strategic plans or to realize long-term value from our assets, and this could in turn have an adverse effect on our business and on our results of operations and financial condition.. A proxy contest could also cause our stock price to experience periods of volatility.  Further, if a proxy contest results in a change in control of our Board of Directors, such an event could give third parties certain rights under our existing contractual obligations, which could adversely affect our business.. We may be subject to disruptive unsolicited takeover attempts in the future.. We have in the past and may in the future be subject to unsolicited attempts to gain control of our company. Responding to any such attempt would distract management attention away from our business and would require us to incur significant costs. Moreover, any unsolicited takeover attempt may disrupt our business by causing uncertainty among current and potential employees, producers, suppliers, customers and other constituencies important to our success, which could negatively impact our financial results and business initiatives. Other disruptions to our business include potential volatility in our stock price and potential adverse impacts on the timing of, and our ability to consummate, acquisitions of products and companies.. Certain provisions applicable to the Convertible Notes and the Senior Notes could delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial takeover or takeover attempt.. Certain provisions applicable to the Convertible Notes and the indenture governing the Convertible Notes, the Senior Notes and the Note Purchase Agreement, could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. For example, if an acquisition event constitutes a fundamental change under the indenture for the Convertible Notes or a major transaction under the Note Purchase Agreement, holders of the Convertible Notes or the Senior Notes, as applicable, will have the right to require us to repurchase their notes in cash. In addition, if an acquisition event constitutes a \"make-whole fundamental change\" under the indenture, we may be required to increase the conversion rate for holders who convert their Convertible Notes in connection with such make-whole fundamental change. In any of these cases, and in other cases, our obligations under the Convertible Notes and the indenture, the Senior Notes and the Note Purchase Agreement, as well as provisions of our organizational documents and other agreements, could increase the cost of acquiring us or otherwise discourage a third party from acquiring us or removing incumbent management.. 38. Table of Contents. Provisions in our restated articles of incorporation, bylaws and California law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the market price of our common stock.. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and the California General Corporation Law could discourage a third party from acquiring, or make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, control of our company without the approval of our Board of Directors. These provisions could also limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Certain provisions allow the Board of Directors to authorize the issuance of preferred stock with rights superior to those of the common stock.. On July 12, 2015, our Board of Directors adopted and approved an amendment and restatement to our bylaws (the Amended Bylaws). The Amended Bylaws, among other things, provide for the establishment of a measurement record date for purposes of ascertaining shareholders eligible to call for a special meeting of shareholders and establish certain other procedures relating to the calling of a special meeting of shareholders. The Amended Bylaws also supplement the advanced notice requirements and procedures for the submission by shareholders of nominations for the Board of Directors and of other proposals to be presented at shareholder meetings, and provide that the exclusive forum for any shareholder to bring any: (i) derivative action, (ii) claim asserting a breach of fiduciary duty, (iii) action under the California Corporations Code or our organizational documents or (iv) other action relating to our internal affairs, shall in each case be the Santa Clara County Superior Court within the State of California or, if no state court located within the State of California has jurisdiction, the federal district court for the Northern District of California. The Amended Bylaws also make certain other ministerial changes.. We are also subject to the provisions of Section 1203 of the California General Corporation Law, which requires a fairness opinion to be provided to our shareholders in connection with their consideration of any proposed \"interested party\" reorganization transaction.. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock so any returns on shares of our common stock will be limited to changes in the value of our common stock.. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings for the development, operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. In addition, our ability to pay cash dividends on our common stock may be prohibited or limited by the terms of any future debt financing arrangement. Any return to shareholders will therefore be limited to the increase, if any, of our stock price.. Business interruptions could limit our ability to operate our business and may also effect the success of our commercialization partners.. Our operations and infrastructure, and those of our partners, third party suppliers and vendors are vulnerable to damage or interruption from cyber-attacks and security breaches, human error, natural disasters, fire, flood, the effects of climate change, power loss, telecommunications failures, equipment failures, intentional acts of theft, vandalism, terrorism and similar events. In particular, our corporate headquarters are located in the San Francisco Bay area, which has a history of seismic activity. We have not established a formal disaster recovery plan, and our back-up operations and our business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for losses that occur. A significant business interruption could result in losses or damages incurred by us and require us to cease or curtail our operations.. For example, Hurricanes Irma and Maria caused significant devastation and damage throughout Puerto Rico in 2017, including widespread flooding and power loss.  As a result, we experienced delays in the manufacture, packaging and delivery of certain dosage strengths of NUCYNTA ER in fourth quarter of 2017 and the first quarter of 2018. We and Collegium may continue to experience further outages in the future. Any delay in the manufacture, packaging or delivery of NUCYNTA ER and NUCYNTA could adversely affect the success of our commercialization partner Collegium, which in turn could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 39. Table of Contents. Data breaches and cyber-attacks could compromise our intellectual property or other sensitive information and cause significant damage to our business.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect, maintain and transmit sensitive data on our computer networks and information technology systems, including our intellectual property and proprietary or confidential business information. The secure maintenance of this information is critical to our business. We believe that companies have been increasingly subject to a wide variety of security incidents, cyber-attacks and other attempts to gain unauthorized access. These threats can come from a variety of sources, ranging in sophistication from an individual hacker to a state-sponsored attack and motives (including corporate espionage). Cyber threats may be generic, or they may be custom-crafted to target our information systems. Cyber-attacks are becoming increasingly more prevalent and much harder to detect and defend against. Our network and storage applications and those of our third party vendors may be subject to unauthorized access by hackers or breached due to operator error, malfeasance or other system disruptions.. It is often difficult to anticipate or immediately detect such incidents and the damage caused by such incidents. These data breaches and any unauthorized access or disclosure of our information or intellectual property could compromise our intellectual property and expose sensitive business information, including the information of our business partners. Cyber-attacks could cause us to incur significant remediation costs, result in product development delays, disrupt key business operations and divert attention of management and key information technology resources. Our network security and data recovery measures and those of our third party vendors may not be adequate to protect against such security breaches and disruptions. These incidents could also subject us to liability, expose us to significant expense and cause significant harm to our business."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
