[1] "ITEM 1A:    RISK FACTORS. We caution the reader that the following risks and those risks described elsewhere in this report and in our other SEC filings could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow or could cause a decline in the Company's stock price.. 14. Index. Risks Related to the Spin-off. We may not achieve the benefits expected from our spin-off from GAMCO and may be more susceptible to adverse events.. We expect that, as a company independent from GAMCO, we will be able to grow organically and through acquisitions. Nonetheless, we may not be able to achieve either of these goals. Furthermore, by separating from GAMCO, there is a risk that we may be more susceptible to adverse events than we would have otherwise experienced as a subsidiary of GAMCO. As a subsidiary of GAMCO, we enjoyed certain benefits, including economies of scope and scale in costs, employees and business relationships. These benefits may not be as readily achievable as a smaller, stand-alone company.. Certain of our directors and officers may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their positions or relationships with GAMCO.. Mario J. Gabelli serves as our Executive Chairman and also continues to serve as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of GAMCO. Douglas R. Jamieson, President and Chief Executive Officer of Associated Capital, continues his role as President and Chief Operating Officer of GAMCO Asset Management. Executive Vice President Agnes Mullady, who is responsible for the oversight of Associated Capital's UCITs offerings, also acts as Senior Vice President of GAMCO and President and Chief Operating Officer of the Gabelli Funds Division. Kevin Handwerker, Associated Capital's Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, also serves in the same capacities for GAMCO. In addition, some of our portfolio managers and employees are provided pursuant to the Transitional Services Agreement with GAMCO and are officers or employees of GAMCO. Such dual assignments could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when our and GAMCO's officers and directors face decisions that could have different implications for the two companies.. Associated Capital has renounced its rights to certain business opportunities, and our certificate of incorporation provides that no director or officer of Associated Capital will breach their fiduciary duty and therefore be liable to Associated Capital or its stockholders by reason of the fact that any such individual directs a corporate opportunity to another person or entity (including GAMCO) instead of Associated Capital, or does not refer or communicate information regarding such corporate opportunity to Associated Capital, unless (x) such opportunity was expressly offered to such person solely in his or her capacity as a director or officer of Associated Capital or as a director or officer of any of our subsidiaries, and (y) such opportunity relates to a line of business in which Associated Capital or any of its subsidiaries is then directly engaged; provided, however, if the conditions specified in the immediately preceding clauses (x) and (y) are satisfied, any officer or director of Associated Capital may pursue such corporate opportunity (or direct it to another person or entity) if either (i) Associated Capital renounces its interest in the potential business opportunity in writing or (ii) Associated Capital does not within a reasonable period of time, begin to pursue, or thereafter continue to pursue, such corporate opportunity diligently and in good faith. Our certificate of incorporation specifically provides that any person purchasing, receiving or otherwise becoming an owner of any shares of our capital stock, or any interest therein, will be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to the corporate opportunity policy contained in our certificate of incorporation.. Also, some of our directors, executive officers, portfolio managers and teammates own shares of GAMCO common stock and GAMCO restricted stock awards (\"RSAs\") or other GAMCO equity awards. The ownership of this GAMCO common stock may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest.. In addition, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute that may arise between GAMCO and Associated Capital regarding the terms of the agreements governing the separation and the relationship thereafter between the companies. The executive officers and other personnel of GAMCO who serve as directors or executive management of Associated Capital may interpret these agreements in their capacity as GAMCO employees in a manner that would adversely affect the business of Associated Capital.. Also, certain subsidiaries of GAMCO and GCIA are investment advisers. The executive officers and other personnel of GAMCO who also serve as directors or executive management of Associated Capital may be confronted with the possibility of making decisions in their GAMCO capacity that would adversely affect the business of Associated Capital.. 15. Index. Associated Capital and GAMCO expect to be vigilant in attempting to identify and resolve any potential conflicts of interest, including but not limited to the types described above, at the earliest possible time. However, there can be no guarantee that the interests of Associated Capital may not be adversely affected at some point by such a conflict.. The separation from GAMCO may adversely affect the level of our assets under management (\"AUM\").. Our revenues are dependent on the amount of our AUM as well as the performance of our products. Many investors may have invested assets in alternative investment products (the \"Alternative Investments\") in part because GCIA was a subsidiary of GAMCO. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract investors to the Alternative Investments at the same rate as in prior years. In addition, we can make no assurance that current investors will not redeem their investments from the Alternative Investments as a result of our changed relationship with GAMCO. The occurrence of either of these events could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Concerns about our prospects as a stand-alone company could affect our ability to attract and retain employees or individuals whom we are attempting to recruit as employees.. Our employees or individuals whom we are attempting to recruit as employees may have concerns about our prospects as a stand-alone company, including our ability to maintain our independence and our inability to continue our current reliance on GAMCO's resources. If we are not successful in assuring our employees or individuals whom we are attempting to recruit as employees of our prospects as an independent company, our employees or recruits may seek or accept other employment, which could adversely affect our business and our results of operations.. We may have been able to receive better terms from unaffiliated third parties than the terms provided in our agreements with GAMCO.. The agreements related to our separation from GAMCO, including, but not limited to, the Separation Agreement, the Transitional Services Agreement and the Service Mark and Name License Agreement, were negotiated in the context of our separation from GAMCO while Associated Capital was still majority-owned by GAMCO. Accordingly, they may not reflect terms that would have been reached between unaffiliated parties. The terms of the agreements we negotiated in the context of our separation related to, among other things, indemnities and other obligations between GAMCO and us. Had these agreements been negotiated with unaffiliated third parties, they might have been more favorable to us.. In connection with the spin-off, GAMCO has indemnified us for certain liabilities. There can be no assurance that the indemnity will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that GAMCO's ability to satisfy its indemnification obligations will not be impaired in the future.. Pursuant to the Separation Agreement, GAMCO will agree to indemnify us from certain liabilities. Third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that GAMCO has agreed to retain, and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from GAMCO will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities or that GAMCO will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. Moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from GAMCO any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear those losses until such recovery. Each of these risks could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 16. Index. Risks Related to Our Industry. Changes in laws or regulations or in governmental policies and compliance with existing laws or regulations could limit the sources and amounts of our revenues, increase our costs of doing business, decrease our profitability and materially and adversely affect our business.. Our business is subject to extensive regulation in the United States, primarily at the federal level, including regulation by the SEC under the Advisers Act as well as other securities laws, by the Department of Labor under ERISA, and regulation by FINRA and state regulators. The Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations on investment advisors, including record-keeping, advertising and operating requirements, fiduciary and disclosure obligations, custodial requirements and prohibitions on fraudulent activities. In addition, our businesses are also subject to regulation by the FCA in the United Kingdom, and we are also subject to the laws of other non-U.S. jurisdictions and non-U.S. regulatory agencies or bodies.. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could result in fines, censure, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our subsidiaries' registrations as an investment advisor or broker-dealer. Industry regulations are designed to protect our clients and investors in our funds and other third parties who deal with us and to ensure the integrity of the financial markets. Our industry is frequently altered by new laws or regulations and by revisions to, and evolving interpretations of, existing laws and regulations, both in the United States and in other nations. Changes in laws or regulations or in governmental policies could limit the sources and amounts of our revenues, increase our costs of doing business, decrease our profitability and materially and adversely affect our business.. We are subject to extensive and pervasive regulation around the world.. Our business is subject to extensive regulation around the world. These regulations subject our business activities to a pervasive array of increasingly detailed operational requirements, compliance with which is costly, time-consuming and complex. We may be adversely affected by our failure to comply with current laws and regulations or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. Challenges associated with interpreting regulations issued in numerous countries in a globally consistent manner may add to such risks if regulators in different jurisdictions have inconsistent views or provide only limited regulatory guidance. In particular, violation of applicable laws or regulations could result in fines, temporary or permanent prohibition of certain activities, reputational harm and related client terminations, suspensions of employees or revocation of their licenses, suspension or termination of investment adviser, broker-dealer or other registrations or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation or business and may cause our AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.. New tax legislation or changes in U.S. and foreign tax laws and regulations or challenges to Associated Capital's historical taxation practices may adversely affect Associated Capital's effective tax rate, business and overall financial condition.. Our businesses may be affected by new tax legislation or regulations, or the modification of existing tax laws and regulations, by U.S. or non-U.S. authorities. In particular, FATCA has introduced expansive new investor onboarding, withholding and reporting rules aimed at ensuring U.S. persons with financial assets outside of the United States pay appropriate taxes. The OECD has developed CRS to address the issue of offshore tax evasion on a global basis. Aimed at maximizing efficiency and reducing cost for financial institutions, the CRS provides a common standard for due diligence, reporting and exchange of financial account information. The FATCA and CRS rules will impact both U.S. and non-U.S. Investment Partnerships and separately managed accounts and subject Associated Capital to extensive additional administrative burdens.. Certain of our FATCA and CRS compliance are done by third parties, and we cannot be certain that they will always comply with applicable FATCA and CRS rules.. 17. Index. We also manage significant assets in products and accounts that have specific tax and after-tax related objectives, which could be adversely impacted by changes in tax policy. Additionally, any new legislation or amendments to or modification of the interpretation of tax laws could impact Associated Capital's corporate tax position. The U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted in December 2017 made significant changes to the corporate and individual tax rates, available income tax deductions and the treatment of other tax attributes. Many provisions of this legislation may be subject to further technical corrections and the adoption of implementing regulations.. The application of complex tax regulations involves numerous uncertainties and in the normal course of business, U.S. and non-U.S. tax authorities may review and challenge Associated Capital's historical tax positions. These challenges may result in adjustments to Associated Capital's tax position, or impact the timing or amount of, taxable income, deductions or other tax allocations, which may adversely affect Associated Capital's effective tax rate and overall financial condition.. To the extent we are forced to compete on the basis of price, we may not be able to maintain our current fee structure.. The investment management business is highly competitive and has relatively low barriers to entry. To the extent we are forced to compete on the basis of price, we may not be able to maintain our current fee structure. Although our investment management fees vary from product to product, historically we have competed primarily on the performance of our products and not on the level of our investment management fees relative to those of our competitors. In recent years, however, there has been a trend toward lower fees in the investment management industry. In order to maintain our fee structure in a competitive environment, we must be able to continue to provide clients with investment returns and service that make investors willing to pay our fees. We cannot be assured that we will succeed in providing investment returns and service that will allow us to maintain our current fee structure. Fee reductions on existing or new business could have an adverse effect on our profit margins and results of operations.. Catastrophic and unpredictable events could have a material adverse effect on our business.. A terrorist attack, political unrest, war (whether or not directly involving the United States), power failure, cyber-attack, technology failure, natural disaster or many other possible catastrophic or unpredictable events could adversely affect our future revenues, expenses and earnings by, among other things: causing disruptions in United States, regional or global economic conditions; interrupting our normal business operations; inflicting employee casualties, including loss of our key executives; requiring substantial expenditures and expenses to repair, replace and restore normal business operations; and reducing investor confidence.. Pursuant to the Transitional Services Agreement with GAMCO, we have a disaster recovery plan to address certain contingencies, but we cannot assure you that this plan will be effective or sufficient in responding to, eliminating or ameliorating the effects of all disaster scenarios. If our employees or vendors we rely upon for support in a catastrophic event are unable to respond adequately or in a timely manner, we may lose clients resulting in a decrease in AUM which may have a material adverse effect on revenues and net income.. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect our business.. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We and the investments we manage may have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including: brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, clearing organizations, mutual and hedge funds and other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us and the accounts we manage to credit risk in the event of the counterparty's default. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely impact Associated Capital's revenues and earnings.. 18. Index. Risks Related to Our Business. Control by Mario J. Gabelli of a majority of the combined voting power of Associated Capital common stock may give rise to conflicts of interests.. Mario J. Gabelli, through his control and majority ownership of GGCP, Inc. (\"GGCP\") and his individual ownership of Associated Capital common stock, will beneficially own a majority of our outstanding Associated Capital Class B Stock, representing approximately 98.6% voting control as of December 31, 2017. As long as Mario J. Gabelli indirectly beneficially owns a majority of the combined voting power of Associated Capital common stock, he will have the ability to elect all of the members of our Board and thereby control our management and affairs, including determinations with respect to acquisitions, dispositions, borrowings, issuances of common stock or other securities, and the declaration and payment of dividends on the Associated Capital common stock. In addition, Mario J. Gabelli will be able to determine the outcome of all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders for approval and will be able to cause or prevent a change in control of Associated Capital. As a result of Mario J. Gabelli's control, none of our agreements with Mario J. Gabelli and other companies controlled by him can be assumed to have been arrived at through \"arm's-length\" negotiations, although the parties endeavor to implement market-based terms. There can be no assurance that we would not have received more favorable terms, or offered less favorable terms to, an unaffiliated party.. In addition, Mario J. Gabelli, through his control and majority ownership of GGCP, controls GAMCO, and he could take actions that favor GAMCO over Associated Capital.. We may compete with GAMCO for clients and investment opportunities.. Although our business is expected to focus primarily on alternative investment management and institutional research services, while GAMCO is expected to focus primarily on its mutual fund and institutional and private wealth management businesses, situations may arise where we find ourselves directly competing with GAMCO for investment clients and opportunities. For example, it is possible that a potential investor might consider investing in Associated Capital and GAMCO investment products and that such potential investor will have to choose between our investment products and those offered by GAMCO. In addition, Associated Capital and GAMCO could pursue the same investment opportunities in the future.. Investors in our products have the right to redeem their investments in our products on a regular basis and could redeem a significant amount of AUM during any given quarterly period, which would result in significantly decreased revenues.. Subject to any specific redemption provisions applicable to a product, investors may generally redeem their investments in our products on an annual or quarterly basis following the expiration of a specified period of time. In a declining market, the pace of redemptions and consequent reduction in our AUM potentially could accelerate. Furthermore, investors in our products may also invest in products managed by other alternative asset managers that have restricted or suspended redemptions or may in the future do so. Such investors may redeem capital from our products, even if our performance is superior to such other alternative asset managers' performance, if they are restricted or prevented from redeeming capital from those other managers.. The decrease in revenues that would result from significant redemptions in our products could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and business. In 2009, due to factors related to the financial crisis, investors redeemed approximately $62 million invested in Associated Capital's products which represented approximately 20% of Associated Capital's AUM at that time. If economic and market conditions remain uncertain or worsen, we may once again experience significant redemptions.. 19. Index. Our business and financial condition may be materially adversely impacted by the highly variable nature of our revenues, results of operations and cash flows. In a typical year, a substantial portion of our incentive allocation income is determined and recorded in the fourth quarter of each year, which means that our interim results are not expected to be indicative of our results for a full year.. Our revenues are influenced by the combination of the amount of AUM and the investment performance of our products. Asset flows, whether inflows or outflows, can be highly variable from month to month and quarter to quarter. Furthermore, our products' investment performance, which affects the amount of AUM, can be volatile due to, among other things, general market and economic conditions. Accordingly, our revenues, results of operations and cash flows may be highly variable. This variability is exacerbated during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, primarily due to the fact that a substantial portion of our revenues historically have been, and we expect will continue to be, derived from incentive allocation income from our products. Incentive allocation income is contingent on the investment performance of the products as of the relevant measurement period, which generally is as of the end of each calendar year. We may also experience fluctuations in our results from quarter to quarter due to a number of other factors, including changes in management fees resulting from changes in the value of our products' investments, other changes in the amount of AUM, changes in our operating expenses, unexpected business developments and initiatives and, as discussed above, general economic and market conditions. Such variability and unpredictability may lead to volatility or declines in the price of the our stock and cause our results for a particular period not to be indicative of our performance in a future period or meaningful as a basis of comparison against results for a prior period.. The amount of incentive allocation income that may be generated by our products is uncertain until it is determined and realized at a particular point in time. We generally do not record incentive allocation income in our interim financial statements other than incentive allocation income earned as a result of investor redemptions during the period. As a result of these and other factors, our interim results may not be indicative of historical performance or the results that may be expected for a full year.. In addition, a substantial portion of our products' AUM have \"high-water marks.\" This means that if an investor experiences losses in a given year, we will not be able to earn incentive allocation income with respect to such investor's investment unless and until our investment performance surpasses the high-water mark. The incentive allocation income we earn is therefore dependent on the net asset value of each investor's investment in our products. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 21.6% of our AUM was below a high-water mark. We can make no assurances that our investors will not experience losses in future years and, as a result, we may not earn incentive allocation income in those or subsequent years until such losses are earned back.. A decline in the prices of securities generally could lead to a decline in our AUM, revenues and earnings.. Substantially all of our revenues are directly related to both the amount of our AUM and the performance of our investment products. Under our investment advisory contracts, the investment advisory fees we receive are typically based on the market value of AUM. Accordingly, a decline in the prices of securities generally may cause our revenues and net income to decline by either causing the value of our AUM to decrease, which would result in lower investment advisory fees, or causing our clients to withdraw funds in favor of investments they perceive to offer greater opportunity or lower risk, which would also result in lower fees. The securities markets are highly volatile, and securities prices may increase or decrease for many reasons beyond our control, including but not limited to economic and political events, war (whether or not directly involving the United States), acts of terrorism, unanticipated changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates, inflation rates, the yield curve, defaults by derivative counterparties, bond default risks, decreases in commodity prices, slowing growth in other countries, particularly China, the sovereign debt crisis in Europe and other factors that are difficult or impossible to predict or even to identify. If a decline in securities prices caused our revenues to decline, it could have a material adverse effect on our earnings.. The loss of the services of Mario J. Gabelli and other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are dependent on the efforts of Mario J. Gabelli, our Executive Chairman. The loss of the services of Mario J. Gabelli could have a material adverse effect on our business.. 20. Index. Our future success depends to a substantial degree on our ability to retain and attract other qualified personnel to conduct our investment management business. The market for qualified portfolio managers is extremely competitive and has grown more so in recent periods as the investment management industry has experienced growth. We anticipate that it will be necessary for us to add portfolio managers and investment analysts as we further diversify our investment products and strategies. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. In addition, our investment professionals and senior marketing personnel have direct contact with our clients, which can lead to strong client relationships. The loss of these personnel could jeopardize our relationships with certain clients, and result in the loss of such accounts. The loss of key management professionals or the inability to recruit and retain sufficient portfolio managers and marketing personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We have experienced and may again experience periods of rapid growth and significant declines in AUM, which place significant demands on our legal, compliance, accounting, risk management, administrative and operational resources.. Our AUM grew from approximately $230 million as of December 31, 1999 to $814 million as of December 31, 2004. Between December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2008, our AUM had declined to $295 million due to investment losses and redemptions experienced by our funds over that period. As of December 31, 2017, our AUM had grown to approximately $1.5 billion.. Rapid changes in our AUM impose significant demands on our legal, compliance, accounting, risk management, administrative and operational infrastructure. The complexity of these demands and the time and expense required to address them, is a function not simply of the amount by which our AUM have changed, but also of significant differences in the investing strategies employed within our funds and the time periods during which these changes occur. Furthermore, our future growth will depend on, among other things, our ability to develop and maintain highly reliable operating platforms, management systems and financial reporting and compliance infrastructures that are also sufficiently flexible to promptly and appropriately address our business needs, applicable legal and regulatory requirements and relevant market and other operating conditions, all of which can change rapidly.. There may be adverse effects on our business from a decline in the performance of the securities markets.. Our results of operations are affected by many economic factors, including the performance of the securities markets. During the 1990s, unusually favorable and sustained performance of the U.S. securities markets, and the U.S. equity market in particular, attracted substantial inflows of new investments in these markets. That contributed to significant market appreciation which, in turn, led to an increase in our AUM and revenues. More recently, the securities markets in general have experienced significant volatility, and such volatility may continue or increase in the future. At December 31, 2017, our AUM are primarily invested in equity securities. Any decline in the securities markets, in general, and the equity markets, in particular, could reduce our AUM and consequently reduce our revenues. In addition, any such decline in the equity markets, failure of these markets to sustain their prior levels of growth, or continued short-term volatility in these markets could result in investors withdrawing from the equity markets or decreasing their rate of investment, either of which would be likely to adversely affect us. Also, from time to time, a relatively high proportion of the assets we manage may be concentrated in particular economic or industry sectors. A general decline in the performance of securities in those industry sectors could have an adverse effect on our AUM and revenues.. There is a possibility of losses associated with proprietary investment activities.. Currently, we maintain large proprietary investment positions in securities. Market fluctuations and other factors may result in substantial losses in our proprietary accounts, which could have an adverse effect on our balance sheet, reduce our ability or willingness to make new investments or impair our credit ratings.. Future investment performance could reduce revenues and other income.. Success in the investment management business is dependent on investment performance as well as distribution and client servicing. Good performance generally stimulates sales of our investment products and tends to keep withdrawals and redemptions low, which generates higher management fees (which are based on the amount of AUM). Conversely, poor performance, both in absolute terms and/or relative to peers and industry benchmarks, tends to result in decreased sales, increased withdrawals and redemptions and in the loss of clients, with corresponding decreases in revenues to us. Failure of our investment products to perform well could, therefore, have a material adverse effect on us.. 21. Index. In addition, when our investment products experience strong results relative to the market or other asset classes, clients' investments in our products may increase beyond their target levels, and we could, therefore, suffer withdrawals as our clients rebalance their investments to fit their asset allocation preferences.. There is a possibility of losses associated with underwriting and trading activities.. We undertake limited underwriting activities through our subsidiary, G.research and also conduct proprietary trading activities. Such activities subject our capital to significant risks of loss. The risks of loss include those resulting from ownership of securities, extension of credit, leverage, liquidity, counterparty failure to meet commitments, client fraud, employee errors, misconduct and fraud (including unauthorized transactions by traders), failures in connection with the processing of securities transactions and litigation. We have procedures and internal controls to address such risks, but there can be no assurance that these procedures and controls will prevent losses from occurring.. The loss of institutional research services and underwriting revenues from GAMCO and its affiliates would have an adverse effect on our results of operations, and we can provide no assurance that these revenues will continue.. Institutional research services revenues totaled $12.2 million, $12.6 million and $9.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. G.research earned $4.5 million, $5.2 million and $4.9 million, or approximately 60%, 63% and 59%, of its commission revenue from transactions executed on behalf of funds advised by Gabelli Funds, LLC, and clients advised by GAMCO Asset Management Inc. for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Additionally, pursuant to research services agreements, GAMCO Asset Management Inc. and Gabelli Funds LLC paid in aggregate $4.5 million, $3.0 million and $1.5 million to the Company for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. G.research also earned $0.2 million, $1.6 million and $0.0 million in underwriting revenues for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. These underwriting revenues primarily related to funds affiliated with GAMCO. We can provide no assurance that these institutional research and underwriting revenues from GAMCO and its affiliates will continue, and the loss of these revenues would have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. We may have liability as a general partner or otherwise with respect to our Alternative Investments.. We act as general partner for investment partnerships, including arbitrage, event-driven long/short, sector focused and merchant banking limited partnerships. As a general partner of these partnerships, we may be held liable for the partnerships' liabilities in excess of their ability to pay such liabilities. In addition, in certain circumstances, we may be liable as a control person for the acts of these investment partnerships. As of December 31, 2017, our AUM included approximately $452 million in these investment partnerships. A substantial adverse judgment or other liability with respect to these investment partnerships could have a material adverse effect on us.. Our organizational documents do not limit our ability to enter into new lines of businesses, and we may expand into new investment strategies, geographic markets and businesses, each of which may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our businesses.. Our plan, to the extent that market conditions permit, is to continue to grow our investment businesses and expand into new investment strategies, geographic markets and businesses. Our organizational documents do not limit us to the investment management and financial advisory businesses. Accordingly, we may pursue growth through acquisitions of other investment management or advisory companies, acquisitions of critical business partners or other strategic initiatives. In addition, we expect opportunities will arise to acquire other alternative or traditional asset managers. To the extent we make strategic investments or acquisitions, undertake other strategic initiatives or enter into a new line of business, we will face numerous risks and uncertainties, including risks associated with (a) the required investment of capital and other resources, (b) the possibility that we have insufficient expertise to engage in such activities profitably or without incurring inappropriate amounts of risk, (c) the diversion of management's attention from our core businesses, (d) assumption of liabilities in any acquired business, (e) the disruption of our ongoing businesses, (f) the increasing demands on or issues related to the combining or integrating operational and management systems and controls, (g) compliance with additional regulatory requirements, and (h) the broadening of our geographic footprint, including the risks associated with conducting operations in non-U.S. jurisdictions. Entry into certain lines of business may subject us to new laws and regulations with which we are not familiar, or from which we are currently exempt, and may lead to increased litigation and regulatory risk. For example, our recent and planned business initiatives include offering registered investment products and the creation of investment products open to retail investors. These activities have and will continue to impose additional compliance burdens on us and could also subject us to enhanced regulatory scrutiny and expose us to greater reputation and litigation risk. See \" -  We are subject to substantial litigation risks and may face significant liabilities and damage to our professional reputation as a result of litigation allegations and negative publicity.\" In addition, if a new business generates insufficient revenues or if we are unable to efficiently manage our expanded operations, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Our strategic initiatives may include joint ventures, in which case we will be subject to additional risks and uncertainties in that we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control.. 22. Index. If we are unable to consummate or successfully integrate additional development opportunities, acquisitions or joint ventures, we may not be able to implement our growth strategy successfully.. Our growth strategy is based, in part, on the selective development or acquisition of asset management businesses, or other businesses complementary to our business where we think we can add substantial value or generate substantial returns. The success of this strategy will depend on, among other things: (a) the availability of suitable opportunities, (b) the level of competition from other companies that may have greater financial resources, (c) our ability to value potential development or acquisition opportunities accurately and negotiate acceptable terms for those opportunities, (d) our ability to obtain requisite approvals and licenses from the relevant governmental authorities and to comply with applicable laws and regulations without incurring undue costs and delays and (e) our ability to identify and enter into mutually beneficial relationships with venture partners. Moreover, even if we are able to identify and successfully complete an acquisition, we may encounter unexpected difficulties or incur unexpected costs associated with integrating and overseeing the operations of the new businesses. If we are not successful in implementing our growth strategy, our business, financial results and the market price for our common units may be adversely affected.. Risk management activities may materially adversely affect the return on our and our clients' investments.. When managing our and our clients' exposure to market risks, we may from time to time use hedging strategies and various forms of derivative instruments to limit the funds' exposure to changes in the relative values of investments that may result from market developments, including changes in prevailing interest rates, currency exchange rates and commodity prices. The success of any hedging transactions generally will depend on our ability to correctly assess the degree of correlation between price movements of the hedging instrument, the position being hedged, the creditworthiness of the counterparty and other factors. As a result, while we may enter into a transaction in order to reduce our exposure to market risks, the transaction may result in poorer overall investment performance than if it had not been executed. Such transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the value of a hedged position increases. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in connection with hedging activities and price movements in a position being hedged may vary. For a variety of reasons, we may not seek or be successful in establishing a perfect correlation between the instruments used in a hedging or other derivative transaction and the position being hedged. An imperfect correlation could prevent us from achieving the intended result and could give rise to a loss. In addition, it may not be possible to fully or perfectly limit our exposure against all changes in the value of our investment because the value of investments is likely to fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, some of which will be beyond our control or ability to hedge.. If our risk management processes and systems are ineffective, we may be exposed to material unanticipated losses.. We continue to refine and implement our risk management techniques, strategies and assessment methods, such as the use of statistical and other quantitative and qualitative tools to identify, observe, measure and analyze the risks to which our funds are exposed. These methods, even if properly implemented, may not allow us to fully mitigate the risk exposure of our funds in all economic or market environments, or against all types of risk, including risks that we might fail to identify or anticipate. Some of our strategies for anticipating and managing risk in our funds are based upon our use of historical market behavior statistics, which may not be an accurate predictor of current or future market risks. We apply statistical and other tools to these observations to measure and analyze the risks to which our funds are exposed. Any failure in our risk management systems, whether in design or implementation, to accurately identify and quantify such risk exposure could limit our ability to manage risks in the funds, identify appropriate investment opportunities or realize positive, risk-adjusted returns. Because neither our quantitative nor qualitative risk management processes can anticipate for every investment the economic and financial outcome or timing and other specifics of the outcome, we will, in the course of our activities, incur losses.. 23. Index. Operational risks may disrupt our businesses, result in regulatory action against us or limit our growth.. We face operational risk arising from errors made in the execution, confirmation or settlement of transactions or from transactions not being properly recorded, evaluated or accounted for. Our business is highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, transactions across markets in an efficient and accurate manner. Consequently, we rely heavily on our financial, accounting and other data processing systems. Despite the reliability of these systems and the training and skill of our teammates and third parties we rely on, it remains likely that errors may occasionally occur due to the extremely large number of transactions we process. In addition, if systems we use are unable to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions, our ability to expand our businesses could be constrained. If any of these systems do not operate properly or are disabled, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage.. Failure to maintain adequate infrastructure could impede our productivity and growth. Additionally, failure to maintain effective information and cyber security policies, procedures and capabilities could disrupt operations and cause financial losses that could result in a decrease in our earnings or stock price.. Our infrastructure, including information systems, hardware, software, networks and other technology, is vital to the competitiveness of our business. Our information systems and technology is currently provided by GAMCO pursuant to the Transitional Services Agreement. The failure of GAMCO to maintain an adequate infrastructure commensurate with the size and scope of our business could impede our productivity and growth, which could cause our earnings or stock price to decline.. GAMCO outsources a significant portion of our information systems operations to third parties, who are responsible for providing the management, maintenance and updating of such systems. Technology is subject to rapid change, and we cannot guarantee that our competitors may not implement more advanced technology platforms for their products than we do for ours. In addition, there can be no assurance that the cost of maintaining such outsourcing arrangements will not increase from its current level, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. In addition, any inaccuracies, delays, system failures or security breaches in these and other systems could subject us to client dissatisfaction and losses. Our technology systems may be subject to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code or other events that could have a security impact. There can be no assurance that breach of our technology systems could result in material losses (such material losses including the loss of valuable information, liability for stolen assets or information, remediation costs to repair damage caused by the breach, additional security costs to mitigate against future incidents and litigation costs resulting from the incident) relating to such security breach of our technology systems.. If a successful cyber-attack or other security breach were to occur, our confidential or proprietary information, or the confidential or proprietary information of our clients or their counterparties, that is stored in, or transmitted through, such technology systems could be compromised or misappropriated. Moreover, loss of confidential customer identification information could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under laws that protect confidential personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenues. Further, although we take precautions to password protect and encrypt our laptops and other mobile electronic hardware; there can be no assurance that these measures will always provide sufficient protection. If such hardware is stolen, misplaced or left unattended, it may become vulnerable to hacking or other unauthorized use, creating a possible security risk and resulting in potentially costly actions by us.. 24. Index. The failure of one of our vendors to fulfill its obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on us and our clients.. We and GAMCO depend on a number of key vendors for various fund administration, accounting, custody and transfer agent roles and other operational needs. Our or GAMCO's failure or inability to diversify sources for key services or the failure of any key vendors to fulfill their obligations could lead to operational issues for us and, with respect to certain products, could result in financial losses for us and our clients.. We face exposure to legal actions, including litigation and arbitration claims and regulatory and governmental examinations and/or investigations. Insurance coverage for these matters may be inadequate.. The volume of litigation and arbitration claims against financial services firms and the amount of damages claimed has increased over the past several years. The types of claims that we may face are varied. For example, we may face claims against us for purchasing securities that are inconsistent with a client's investment objectives or guidelines or arising from an employment dispute. The risk of litigation is difficult to predict, assess or quantify, and may occur years after the activities or events at issue. In addition, from time to time we may become the subject of governmental or regulatory investigations and/or examinations. Even if we prevail in a legal or regulatory action, the costs alone of defending against the action or the harm to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on us. The insurance coverage that we maintain with respect to legal and regulatory actions may be inadequate or may not cover certain proceedings.. Compliance failures could adversely affect us.. Our investment management activities are subject to regulatory rules and negotiated client guidelines. A failure to comply with these rules and guidelines could result in damage to our reputation, regulatory fines or in our clients seeking to recover losses, withdrawing their investments or terminating their contracts, any of which could cause our revenues and earnings to decline. There can be no assurance that the precautions and procedures that we have instituted and installed or the insurance we maintain to protect ourselves in case of client losses will protect us from potential liabilities.. Our reputation is critical to our success.. Our reputation is critical to acquiring, maintaining and developing relationships with our clients and third-party intermediaries. In recent years, there have been a number of well-publicized cases involving fraud, conflicts of interest or other misconduct by individuals in the financial services industry. Misconduct by our staff, or even unsubstantiated allegations, could result not only in direct financial harm but also in harm to our reputation, causing injury to the value of our brands and our ability to retain or attract AUM. In addition, in certain circumstances, misconduct on the part of our clients or other parties could damage our reputation. Moreover, reputational harm may cause us to lose current employees and we may be unable to attract new employees with similar qualification or skills. Damage to our reputation could substantially reduce our AUM and impair our ability to maintain or grow our business, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. We face strong competition from numerous and sometimes larger companies.. We compete with numerous investment management companies, stock brokerage and investment banking firms, insurance companies, banks, savings and loan associations and other financial institutions. The periodic establishment of new investment management companies and other competitors increases the competition that we face. At the same time, consolidation in the financial services industry has created stronger competitors with greater financial resources and broader distribution channels than our own. Competition is based on various factors, including, among others business reputation, investment performance, product mix and offerings, service quality and innovation, distribution relationships and fees charged. Our competitive success in all of these areas cannot be assured. Additionally, competing securities dealers whom we rely upon to distribute our products also sell their own proprietary investment products, which could limit the distribution of our investment products. To the extent that existing or potential customers, including securities dealers, decide to invest in or distribute the products of our competitors, the sales of our products as well as our market share, revenues and net income could decline. Both GAMCO and Associated Capital have asset management as their principal business and derive most of their revenues through that business and, as such, may compete with each other.. 25. Index. If third-party investors in our funds exercise their right to remove us as investment manager or general partner of our products, we would lose the AUM in such funds, which would eliminate our management fees and incentive allocation income derived from such products.. The governing agreements of most of our Investment Partnerships provide that, subject to certain conditions, third-party investors in those Investment Partnerships have the right, without cause, to vote to remove us as investment manager or general partner of the Investment Partnerships by a simple majority vote, resulting in the elimination of the AUM by those products and the management fees and incentive allocation income derived from those products. In addition to having a significant negative impact on our revenues, results of operations and cash flows, the occurrence of such an event would likely result in significant reputational damage to us.. If we were deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the \"Investment Company Act\"), as amended, and were required to register, applicable restrictions could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Given the nature of its assets, the Company may be deemed to be an \"inadvertent\" investment company as defined in Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Investment Company Act and, if so, it may be required to be registered with the Commission as an investment company. While we believe that the Company's assets and operations are structured so that it is not an investment company, there can be no assurance that the Commission would agree with the Company's assessment. In addition, if the composition of the Company's assets and/or operations were to change, the Company may be required to register as an investment company. In such case, the Company would be subject to significant restrictions imposed on its operations by the Investment Company Act, including limitations on capital structure and the ability to transact business with affiliates. These limitations could make it impractical for the Company to continue its business as contemplated and would have a material adverse effect on its business.. Risks Related to the Associated Capital Common Stock. The disparity in the voting rights among the classes of shares may have a potential adverse effect on the price of the Associated Capital Class A Stock.. The holders of Associated Capital Class A Stock and Associated Capital Class B Stock have identical rights except that holders of Associated Capital Class A Stock are entitled to one vote per share, while holders of Associated Capital Class B Stock are entitled to ten votes per share on all matters to be voted on by stockholders in general, and holders of shares of one class are not eligible to vote on matters relating exclusively to the other class. Mario J. Gabelli, through his control and majority ownership of GGCP and his individual ownership of Associated Capital common stock, beneficially owns a majority of the outstanding Associated Capital Class B Stock, representing approximately 96.4% voting control. As long as Mario J. Gabelli indirectly beneficially owns a majority of the combined voting power of the Associated Capital common stock, he will have the ability to elect all of the members of our Board and thereby control our management and affairs, including, among other things, any determinations with respect to acquisitions, dispositions, borrowings, issuances of common stock or other securities, and the declaration and payment of dividends on the Associated Capital common stock. The differential in voting rights and the ability of Associated Capital to issue additional Associated Capital Class B Stock could adversely affect the value of the Associated Capital Class A Stock to the extent the investors, or any potential future purchaser of Associated Capital, view the superior voting rights of the Associated Capital Class B Stock to have value. While there is no current intention to issue additional Associated Capital Class B Stock, there is no prohibition on Associated Capital issuing additional shares of Associated Capital Class B Stock in the future.. An active public trading market for the Associated Capital Class A Stock is not assured.. A liquid public market for the Associated Capital Class A Stock is not assured, especially because a large percentage of the Associated Capital common stock is held by a limited number of stockholders. If an active trading market for the Associated Capital Class A Stock does not exist, the market price and liquidity of the Associated Capital Class A Stock may be materially and adversely affected.. 26. Index. We cannot predict the prices at which the Associated Capital Class A Stock may trade.. The market price of the Associated Capital Class A Stock may fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including:.   our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry;.   actual or anticipated reductions in our revenue, net earnings and cash flow resulting from actual or anticipated decline in AUM;.   changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;.   the failure of securities analysts to cover Associated Capital or changes in financial estimates by analysts;.   changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates;.   the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies;.   overall market fluctuations; and.   general economic conditions.. In particular, the realization of any of the risks described in these \"Risk Factors\" could have a significant and adverse impact on the market price of the Associated Capital Class A Stock. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. The price of the Associated Capital Class A Stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with us, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our stock price.. We cannot predict how the investment community will value the GAMCO Note ($50 million outstanding as of December 31, 2017) given the GAAP accounting treatment as a reduction to book value.. For GAAP purposes, the amount of the GAMCO Note, which was issued by GAMCO to Associated Capital as part of the spin-off transaction, will be treated as a reduction in equity, rather than as an asset, during the period all or any portion of the GAMCO Note is outstanding. Management utilizes adjusted economic book value (\"AEBV\"), a non-GAAP measure, in its analysis of our financial condition. AEBV includes the outstanding value of the GAMCO Note as an asset. Management believes AEBV is useful in analyzing our financial condition during the period in which we build our core operating business. Upon issuance, the GAMCO Note was required to be paid down ratably over five years subject to prepayment at GAMCO's option. As GAMCO pays down the note, Associated Capital's GAAP book value will increase, and once the GAMCO Note is fully paid off, Associated Capital's GAAP book value and AEBV will be the same. It is possible that the investment community will rely on the GAAP treatment of the GAMCO Note rather than on the non-GAAP AEBV, which may have an adverse effect on the value of our stock.. Future sales of Associated Capital Class A Stock in the public market or sales or distributions of Associated Capital Class B Stock could lower our stock price, and any additional capital raised by us through the sale of equity or convertible securities may dilute our stockholders' ownership in us.. We may sell additional shares of Associated Capital Class A Stock in public or private offerings. We also may issue additional shares of Associated Capital Class A Stock or convertible debt securities. In addition, sales by our current stockholders could be perceived negatively. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that future sales or distributions of Associated Capital Class B Stock owned by GGCP will have on the market price of the Associated Capital Class A Stock from time to time. Sales or distributions of substantial amounts of Associated Capital Class A Stock or Associated Capital Class B Stock, or the perception that such sales or distributions are likely to occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price for the Associated Capital Class A Stock.. 27. Index. The reduced disclosure requirements applicable to us as an \"emerging growth company\" may make Associated Capital common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in the JOBS Act, and we may avail ourselves of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements of public companies that are not \"emerging growth companies,\" including, but not limited to, an exemption from complying with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended (the \"Sarbanes-Oxley Act\") and reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirement of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We may remain an emerging growth company for up to five full fiscal years following the spin-off. We would cease to be an emerging growth company, and, therefore, become ineligible to rely on the above exemptions, if we (a) have more than $1 billion in annual revenue in a fiscal year, (b) issue more than $1 billion of non-convertible debt over a three-year period or (c) become a \"large accelerated filer\" as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act, which would occur after: (i) we have filed at least one annual report; (ii) we have been an SEC-reporting company for at least 12 months; and (iii) the market value of Associated Capital Class A Stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter. We cannot predict if investors will find Associated Capital common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions.. If some investors find Associated Capital Class A Stock less attractive as a result of the exemptions available to us as an emerging growth company, there may be a less active trading market for Associated Capital Class A Stock and our value may be more volatile than that of an otherwise comparable company that does not avail itself of the same or similar exemptions.. We are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of NYSE rules and, as a result, will qualify for, and intend to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. You will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such requirements.. Mario J. Gabelli and his affiliates control a majority of the voting power of the Associated Capital common stock. As a result, we are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of the NYSE. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power in the election of directors is held by an individual, group or another company is a \"controlled company\" and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that, within one year of the date of the listing of the Associated Capital Class A Stock:.   we have a board that is composed of a majority of \"independent directors,\" as defined under the rules of the NYSE;.   we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors; and.   we have a nominating/corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors.. While a majority of our directors are currently independent, we intend to utilize certain of these exemptions. For example, our Nominating Committee is not comprised of independent directors. Accordingly, you will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE.. Our certificate of incorporation provides that certain lawsuits must be litigated in Delaware, which may limit your ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us.. Our certificate of incorporation provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any director, officer or other employee of Associated Capital to Associated Capital or its stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law or our certificate of incorporation or our bylaws or (iv) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine shall be the Court of Chancery in the State of Delaware (or, if the Court of Chancery does not have jurisdiction, the federal district court for the District of Delaware). Accordingly, it may not be possible for stockholders to litigate any action relating to the foregoing matters outside of the State of Delaware, even though stockholders may view other forums to be more favorable.. 28. Index"
