[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. Please see Item 1. \"Business - Forward Looking Statements\" for a discussion of the forward-looking statements that are qualified by these risk factors. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occurs, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. We have a history of losses, and we cannot be certain that we will achieve or sustain profitability.. We have incurred losses since our inception. We experienced net losses of $5.7 million and $972,000 in the fiscal years ended December 31, 2017, and 2016, respectively. At December 31, 2017, our accumulated deficit was $277.6 million and total stockholders' equity was $63.8 million. We expect to continue to incur operating losses as a result of expenses associated with the continued development and expansion of our business. Such expenses include among others, transaction costs associated with acquisitions, sales and marketing, research and development, consulting and support services and other costs relating to the development, marketing and sale and service of our products that may not generate revenue until later periods, if at all. Any failure to increase revenue or manage our cost structure as we implement initiatives to grow our business could prevent us from achieving or sustaining profitability. In addition, our ability to achieve profitability is subject to a number of the risks and uncertainties discussed below, many of which are beyond our control. We cannot be certain that we will be able to achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis.. As we acquire and invest in companies or technologies, we may not realize the expected business or financial benefits. These acquisitions could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and ownership and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. As part of our business strategy, we have in the past and may in the future seek to acquire or invest in other businesses, products or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our existing platform, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth opportunities. In March 2016, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of Mangrove Employer Services, Inc. of Tampa, Florida (\"Mangrove\") as well as substantially all the assets of Mangrove COBRAsource Inc., a benefits administration services business which then was a wholly owned subsidiary of Mangrove. In January 2017, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Personnel Management Systems, Inc., substantially all of the assets of Corporate Payroll, Inc., relating to its payroll service business bureau, and substantially all of the assets of Payroll Specialties NW, Inc. In May 2017, we acquired all of the equity interests of iSystems and all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of Compass. In October 2018, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of ADS.  In January 2018, we acquired TelePayroll Inc., a Southern California-based provider of human resources, payroll and employee benefits services; Pay Systems of America, Inc., a provider of HR, payroll and employee benefits services; and Savers Administrative Services, Inc., a certified third-party administrator of payroll and human resources services.. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks, including:. ·    potential failure to achieve the expected benefits of the combination or acquisition;. ·    difficulties in, and the cost of, integrating operations, technologies, services, platforms and personnel;. ·    diversion of financial and managerial resources from existing operations;. ·    the potential entry into new markets in which we have little or no experience or where competitors may have stronger market positions;. ·    potential write-offs of acquired assets or investments, and potential financial and credit risks associated with acquired customers;. ·    potential loss of key employees of the acquired company;. ·    inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition or investment costs;. 10. Table of Contents. ·    inability to maintain relationships with customers and partners of the acquired business;. ·    difficulty of transitioning the acquired technology onto our existing platforms and customer acceptance of multiple platforms on a temporary or permanent basis;. ·    augmenting the acquired technologies and platforms to the levels that are consistent with our brand and reputation;. ·    increasing or maintaining the security standards for acquired technology consistent with our other services;. ·    potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired businesses;. ·    unanticipated expenses related to acquired technology and its integration into our existing technology;. ·    negative impact to our results of operations because of the depreciation and amortization of amounts related to acquired intangible assets, fixed assets and deferred compensation;. ·    additional stock based compensation;. ·    the loss of acquired deferred revenue and unbilled deferred revenue;. ·    delays in customer purchases due to uncertainty related to any acquisition;. ·    ineffective or inadequate controls, procedures and policies at the acquired company;. ·    challenges caused by integrating operations over distance, and across different languages and cultures in the case of any international acquisitions;. ·    currency and regulatory risks associated with foreign countries and potential additional cybersecurity and compliance risks resulting from entry into new markets; and. ·    the tax effects of any such acquisitions.. Any of these risks could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. In addition, to facilitate these acquisitions or investments, we may seek additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all, which may affect our ability to complete acquisitions or investments. If we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible or other debt securities or loans, or issue equity as consideration for an acquisition, our existing stockholders may be diluted, or we could face constraints related to the terms of, and repayment obligations related to, the incurrence of indebtedness. See also the risk factor below titled \"We may require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all.\". We depend on data centers and computing infrastructure operated by third parties and any disruption in these operations could adversely affect our business.. We host our applications and serve our customers through a number of external data centers. While we control and have access to our servers and all the components of the networks that are located in our external data centers, we do not control the operations of these facilities. The owners of such facilities have no obligation to renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms. If we are not able to renew these contracts on commercially reasonable terms, we may be required to transfer our servers and other infrastructure to new data facilities, and we may incur significant costs and possible service interruption in doing so. Additionally, we rely on certain hosted infrastructure partners, such as Amazon Web Services (\"AWS\") to provide a third party hosted environment for certain of our applications. Any disruption or in any disruption of or interference at our hosted infrastructure partners would impact our operations and our business could be adversely impacted. Problems faced by our third-party data center operations or hosted infrastructure partners could adversely affect the experience of our customers. Breaches of our clients' data caused by errors, omissions or hostile acts of third parties within the third party hosted environment are beyond our control yet we would remain responsible for such data security incidents from a regulatory standpoint, in some instances. Our third-party data center operators or hosted infrastructure partners could decide to close their facilities without adequate notice. In addition, any financial difficulties, such as bankruptcy, faced by our third-party data center operators, our hosted infrastructure partners or any of the other service providers with whom we or they contract may have negative effects on our business, the nature and extent of which are difficult to predict.. 11. Table of Contents. Privacy regulations, existing and evolving regulation of cloud computing, cross-border transfer restrictions and other United States and foreign regulations could limit the use of our services and adversely affect our business.. Regulatory focus on privacy issues continues to increase, as federal, state and foreign governments continue to adopt new laws and regulations addressing data privacy and the collection, processing, storage and use of personal information.  As these laws expand and become more complex, potential risks related to our handling of our clients' personal information will intensify. These measures include the Global Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\"), effective in May, 2018, which replaces the current EU Data Protection Directive 95/46/EC and which applies to all EU member states. This law governs the processing of personal information within the EU and the processing of personal information of EU citizens generally and applies directly to our operations as a data processor. The GDPR imposes new security and privacy standards and contractual obligations on data processors and provides for significant fines and new private rights of actions in the event of breach of a data security or data privacy obligation or non- compliance in general.  Non-compliance with the GDPR may result in monetary penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue. The GDPR and other changes in foreign and domestic laws or regulations associated with the enhanced protection of certain types of sensitive data, such as healthcare data, biometric data, or any personal information, could increase our cost of providing our services or prevent us from offering services in jurisdictions in which we operate. These and other requirements could reduce demand for our services or restrict our ability to store and process data or, in some cases, impact our ability to offer our services in certain locations impacting our clients' ability to deploy our solutions globally. Additionally, the law relating to the ability to exchange data outside of jurisdiction borders is complex and subject to change. For example, in October 2015, the European Court of Justice invalidated the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor framework that had been in place since 2000, which allowed companies to meet certain European legal requirements for the transfer of personal data from the European Economic Area to the United States. While other adequate legal mechanisms to lawfully transfer such data remain, the invalidation of the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor framework may result in different European data protection regulators applying differing standards for the transfer of personal data, which could result in increased regulation, cost of compliance and limitations on data transfer for us and our customers. The costs of compliance with and other burdens imposed by laws, regulations and standards may limit the use and adoption of our services, reduce overall demand for our services, lead to significant fines, penalties or liabilities for noncompliance, or slow the pace at which we close sales transactions, any of which could harm our business. In addition to governmental regulation, self-regulatory standards may place additional burdens on us. Many of our customers expect us to meet voluntary certification or other standards established by third parties, such as the International Trade Administration Privacy Shield as well as other audited measures and controls.  If we are unable to maintain these certifications or meet these standards, it could adversely affect our ability to provide our solutions to certain customers and could harm our business. Even the perception that the privacy of personal information is not satisfactorily protected or does not meet regulatory requirements could inhibit sales of our products or services, and could limit adoption of our cloud-based solutions.. If our security measures or those of our third-party data center hosting facilities, cloud computing platform providers or third-party service partners are compromised or breached, our services may be perceived as not being secure, our brand could be damaged, our services may be disrupted, and customers may curtail or stop using our services, all of which could reduce our revenue and earnings, increase our expenses, and exposure us to legal claims and regulatory actions.. Our services involve the collection, transmission, processing and storing of our customers' and our customers' customers' proprietary and other sensitive data, including financial information and other personal information. While we have security measures in place, they may be breached as a result of third-party action, including intentional misconduct by computer hackers, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise and result in someone obtaining unauthorized access to our information technology systems, our customers' data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information. In addition, third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our customers' data, our data or our information technology systems. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. In addition, our customers may authorize third-party technology providers to access their customer data, and some of our customers may not have adequate security measures in place to protect their data that is stored on our services. Because we do not control our customers or third-party technology providers, or the processing of such data by third-party technology providers, we cannot ensure the integrity or security of such transmissions or processing. Malicious third parties may also conduct attacks designed to temporarily deny customers access to our services. Any security breach could result in a loss of confidence in the security of our services, damage our reputation, negatively impact our future sales, disrupt our business and lead to legal liability. Moreover, if a high profile security breach occurs with respect to another SaaS provider, our clients and potential clients may lose trust in the security of the SaaS business model generally, which could adversely impact our ability to retain existing clients or attract new ones.. 12. Table of Contents. Our directors, officers and principal stockholders have significant voting power and may take actions that may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders.. As of March 12, 2018, our officers, directors and principal stockholders each holding more than 5% of our common stock, collectively control approximately 21% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if they were to act together, would be able to exert significant influence over the management and affairs of our company and most matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This significant concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, including those that you may believe are in your best interests as one of our stockholders. If potential acquirers are deterred, you may lose an opportunity to profit from a possible acquisition premium in our stock price.  This significant concentration of stock ownership may also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock due to investors' perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise.. In addition, under the terms of the Investors Rights Agreement that we entered into in connection with our acquisition of iSystems, holders of a majority of the registerable securities have the right to nominate one director to our board of directors until holders of the registerable securities no longer hold more than the lesser of (x) 5% of our outstanding common stock and (y) 90% of the shares of our common stock held by such holders as of May 25, 2017.  As a result of their ownership interests and director nomination right, holders of the registerable securities may have the ability to influence the outcome of matters that require approval of our stockholders or to otherwise influence the Company. The interests of these stockholders might conflict with or differ from other stockholder interests.. If we are not able to develop enhancements and new features, keep pace with technological developments or respond to future technologies, our business, operating results and financial will be adversely affected.. Our future success will depend on our ability to adapt and innovate. To attract new clients and increase revenue from existing clients, we will need to enhance and improve our existing products and introduce new features. The success of any enhancement or new feature depends on several factors, including timely completion, introduction and market acceptance. If we are unable to enhance our existing products to meet client needs or successfully develop or acquire new features or products, or if such new features or products fail to be successful, our business, operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected.. Our products are designed to operate on a variety of network, hardware and software platforms using Internet tools and protocols, and we must continuously modify and enhance our products to keep pace with changes in Internet-related hardware, software, communication, browser and database technologies. In addition, if new technologies emerge that are able to deliver a workforce management software at lower prices, more efficiently or more conveniently, we may be unable to compete with these technologies. If we are unable to respond in a timely and cost-effective manner to these rapid technological developments, our products may become less marketable and less competitive or obsolete, and our business, operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected.. Our business depends substantially on clients renewing their agreements with us, purchasing additional products from us or adding additional users. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions for our services or reduce the number of paying subscriptions at the time of renewal, our revenue will decline and our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. If we cannot accurately predict subscription renewals or upgrade rates, we may not meet our revenue targets, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. In order for us to improve our operating results, it is important that our clients renew their agreements with us when the initial contract term expires and also purchase additional products or add additional users.. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions for our services after the expiration of their contractual subscription period, which is typically one to three years, and in the normal course of business, some customers have elected not to renew. Even if customers elect to renew, they may renew for fewer subscriptions, renew for shorter contract lengths, or switch to lower cost offerings of our services. Moreover, certain of our clients have the right to cancel their agreements for convenience, subject to certain notice requirements and, in some cases, early termination fees. It is difficult to predict attrition rates given our varied customer base of enterprise, varied sizes or our customers and the number of multi-year subscription contracts. Our client renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our products, our pricing, the prices of competing products or services, mergers and acquisitions affecting our client base, reduced hiring by our clients or reductions in our clients' spending levels.. 13. Table of Contents. Our future success also depends in part on our ability to sell additional features and services, more subscriptions or enhanced editions of our services to our current customers. This may also require increasingly sophisticated and costly sales efforts that are targeted at senior management. Similarly, the rate at which our customers purchase new or enhanced services depends on a number of factors, including general economic conditions and that our customers do not react negatively to any price changes related to these additional features and services.. In addition, if we cannot accurately predict subscription renewals or upgrade rates, we may not meet our revenue targets, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. We may be required to incur further debt to meet future capital requirements of our business. Should we be required to incur additional debt, the restrictions imposed by the terms of such debt could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to respond to changes in our business.. If we incur additional debt, we may be subject to the following risks:. ·    our vulnerability to adverse economic conditions may be heightened;. ·    our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business may be limited;. ·    our debt covenants may affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in the economy and in our industry;. ·    higher levels of debt may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors or prevent us from pursuing opportunities;. ·    covenants contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness may limit our ability to borrow additional funds and make certain investments;. ·    a significant portion of our cash flow could be used to service our indebtedness; and. ·    our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes may be impaired.. We cannot assure you that our leverage and such restrictions will not materially and adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities.. We may require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all.. We intend to continue to make investments, including the acquisition of complementary businesses, to support our business growth and may seek additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new features or enhance our existing products, improve our operating infrastructure or acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in additional equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through issuances of equity or debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly impaired.. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness, including subordinated promissory notes we issued in connection with our acquisitions, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to satisfy our obligations under the notes and any future indebtedness we may incur and to make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, refinancing or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance the notes or future indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on the notes or future indebtedness.. 14. Table of Contents. Unfavorable conditions in our industry or the global economy, or reductions in information technology spending, could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our operating results may vary based on changes in our industry or the impact of changes in the global economy on us or our clients. The revenue growth and potential profitability of our business depends on demand for enterprise application software and services generally and for workspace and workforce management solutions in particular. We sell our software products and services primarily to large, mid-sized and small business organizations whose businesses fluctuate based on general economic and business conditions. In addition, a portion of our revenue is attributable to the number of users of our products at each of our clients, which in turn is influenced by the employment and hiring patterns of our clients and potential clients. To the extent that economic uncertainty or weak economic conditions cause our clients and potential clients to freeze or reduce their headcount, demand for our products may be negatively affected. Historically, economic downturns have resulted in overall reductions in spending on information technology and workforce management software as well as pressure from clients and potential clients for extended billing terms. If economic conditions deteriorate, our clients and potential clients may elect to decrease their information technology and workforce management budgets by deferring or reconsidering product purchases, which would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. The market for workforce management in which we participate is intensely competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected.. The market for workforce management software is highly competitive, rapidly evolving and fragmented. Many of our competitors and potential competitors are larger and have greater brand name recognition, longer operating histories, larger marketing budgets and significantly greater resources than we do. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, and they may be able to compete more effectively on price and other terms. In addition, with the introduction of new technologies and market entrants, we expect competition to intensify in the future. If we fail to compete effectively, our business will be harmed. Some of our principal competitors offer their products or services at a lower price, which has resulted in pricing pressures on our products. Similarly, some competitors offer different billing terms, which has resulted in pressures on our billing terms. If we are unable to maintain our pricing levels and billing terms, our operating results could be negatively impacted. In addition, pricing pressures and increased competition generally could result in reduced sales, reduced margins, losses or the failure of our products to achieve or maintain more widespread market acceptance, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. We face competition from paper-based processes and desktop software tools. We also face competition from custom-built software that is designed to support the needs of a single organization, as well as from third-party talent and human resource application providers. These vendors include, without limitation, Dean Evans & Associates, Inc., Emergingsoft Corporation, AgilQuest Corporation and Condeco Ltd. (UK) as competitors to the AsureSpace\231 line and Kronos, Replicon and Time Simplicity as competitors to the AsureForce® line. In addition, some of the parties with which we maintain business alliances offer or may offer products or services that compete with our products or services.. Many of our competitors are able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services. In addition, many of our competitors have established marketing relationships, access to large client bases and major distribution agreements with consultants, system integrators and distributors. Moreover, many software vendors can bundle human resource products or offer such products at a lower price as part of a larger product sale. In addition, some competitors may offer software that addresses one or a limited number of workforce management functions at a lower price point or with greater depth than our products. For all of these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors.. Existing or future laws and regulations could increase the cost of our products and negatively affect our operating results, as well as subject us to litigation, regulatory investigations and other potential liabilities.. Our business is subject to a wide range of complex U.S. and foreign laws and regulations. As a provider of human resources outsourcing solutions, we process personal and sensitive data related to clients, employees of our clients, and our employees, and are subject to compliance obligations under federal, state and foreign privacy and data security-related laws. For instance, in the United States, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 applies to our COBRA, flexible spending account and health savings account benefits administration services businesses. We are also subject to federal, state and foreign security breach notification laws with respect to both our own employee data and client employee data.. Some of our solutions assist our clients in complying with certain U.S. and foreign laws and regulations that apply to them.  For example, our HCM solutions help clients manage their compliance with certain requirements of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act in the United States. Our COBRA administration services and flexible spending account services in the United States are designed to help our clients comply with relevant federal guidelines relating to, respectively, employers' benefits continuation obligations and certain requirements of the Internal Revenue Code. Changes in such laws or regulations may negatively affect our operating results, and render these compliance management aspects of our products and services obsolete.. 15. Table of Contents. Evolving regulation of the Internet, changes in the infrastructure underlying the Internet or interruptions in Internet access may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition by increasing our expenditures and causing client dissatisfaction.. Our services depend on the ability of our registered users to access the Internet. Currently, this access is provided by companies that have significant market power in the broadband and Internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies and government-owned service providers. Laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the Internet, including changes to laws or regulations impacting Internet neutrality, could decrease the demand for our products, increase our operating costs, require us to alter the manner in which we conduct our business and/or otherwise adversely affect our business. For example, the Federal Communications Commission (the \"FCC\") recently adopted an order repealing rules that prohibit Internet service providers (\"ISPs\") from blocking or throttling Internet traffic, and from engaging in practices that prioritize particular Internet content in exchange for payment (also known as \"paid prioritization\"). The order is not yet effective and has been challenged in court, which could result in further changes to the governing law. There is also uncertainty regarding how the FCC's new framework, if upheld, and new oversight by the Federal Trade Commission (\"FTC\") will be applied. Depending on ongoing appellate proceedings and future action by the FCC and FTC, we could experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices that could cause us to incur additional expense or otherwise adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In particular, the repeal of restrictions on paid prioritization could enable ISPs to impose higher fees and otherwise adversely affect our business.. In addition, the rapid and continual growth of traffic on the Internet has resulted at times in slow connection and download speeds of Internet users. Our business may be harmed if the Internet infrastructure cannot handle our clients' demands or if hosting capacity becomes insufficient. If our clients become frustrated with the speed at which they can utilize our products over the Internet, our clients may discontinue the use of our software and choose not to renew their contracts with us. Further, the performance of the Internet has also been adversely affected by viruses, worms, hacking, phishing attacks, denial of service attacks and other similar malicious programs, as well as other forms of damage to portions of its infrastructure, which have resulted in a variety of Internet outages, interruptions and other delays. These service interruptions could diminish the overall attractiveness of our products to existing and potential users and could cause demand for our products to suffer.. Our business and operations are experiencing growth and organizational change. If we fail to effectively manage such growth and change, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected.. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, growth and organizational change, which has placed, and may continue to place, significant demands on our management, operational and financial resources. For example, our headcount has grown from 179 employees (175 full-time) on December 31, 2016 to 324 employees (315 full-time) on December 31, 2017. We may continue to expand our operations in the future, either organically or through additional acquisitions. We have also experienced significant growth in the number of users, transactions and data that our SaaS hosting infrastructure supports. We will require significant capital expenditures and the allocation of valuable management resources to manage this growth. If we fail to manage our anticipated growth and change in an effective manner, our ability to retain and attract clients may suffer and our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected.. Our clients could have insufficient funds to cover payments we have made on their behalf, resulting in financial loss to us.. As part of the payroll processing service, we are authorized by our clients to transfer money from their accounts to fund amounts owed to their employees and various taxing authorities.  It is possible that we could be held liable for such amounts in the event the client has insufficient funds to cover them.  We have in the past, and may in the future, make payments on our clients' behalf for which we may not  be reimbursed, resulting in loss to us.. Our interest earned on funds held for clients may be impacted by changes in government regulations mandating the amount of tax withheld or timing of remittance.. We receive interest income from investing client funds collected but not yet remitted to applicable tax or regulatory agencies or to client employees. A change in regulations either decreasing the amount of taxes to be withheld or allowing less time to remit taxes to applicable tax or regulatory agencies could adversely impact interest income.. 16. The markets in which we participate are highly competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our operating results could be adversely affected.. The market for payroll and HCM solutions is fragmented, highly competitive and rapidly changing. Our competitors vary for each of our solutions, and include (i) enterprise-focused software providers, such as Ultimate Software Group, Inc., Workday, Inc., SAP AG, Oracle Corporation and Ceridian Corporation, (ii) payroll service providers, such as Automatic Data Processing, Inc., Paychex, Inc., Paycom Software, Inc., Paycor, Inc. and (iii) other regional providers, and HCM point solutions, such as Cornerstone OnDemand, Inc.. Several of our competitors are larger, have greater name recognition, longer operating histories and significantly greater resources than we do. Many of these competitors are able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services. Furthermore, our current or potential competitors may be acquired by third parties with greater available resources and the ability to initiate or withstand substantial price competition. As a result, our competitors may be able to develop products and services better received by our markets or may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, regulations or client requirements.. In addition, current and potential competitors have established, and might in the future establish, partner or form other cooperative relationships with vendors of complementary products, technologies or services to enable them to offer new products and services, to compete more effectively or to increase the availability of their products in the marketplace. New competitors or relationships might emerge that have greater market share, a larger client base, more widely adopted proprietary technologies, greater marketing expertise, greater financial resources, and larger sales forces than we have, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. In light of these advantages, current or potential clients might accept competitive offerings in lieu of purchasing our offerings. We expect intense competition to continue for these reasons, and such competition could negatively impact our sales, profitability or market share.. If we lose key personnel, including key management personnel, or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel as needed in the future, it could disrupt the operation of our business, delay our product development and harm our growth efforts.. Our future performance depends largely on our ability to continually and effectively attract, train, retain, motivate and manage highly qualified and experienced technical, sales, marketing, managerial and executive personnel. Our future development and growth depend on the efforts of key management personnel and technical employees. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to attract and retain personnel with the requisite capabilities and experience. The loss of one or more of our key management or technical personnel could have a material and adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. Any significant disruption in our SaaS hosting network infrastructure could harm our reputation, require us to provide credits or refunds, result in early terminations of client agreements or a loss of clients, and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our SaaS hosting network infrastructure is a critical part of our business operations. Our clients access our workforce management software through a standard web browser and depend on us for fast and reliable access to our products. Our software is proprietary, and we rely on third-party data center hosting facilities and the expertise of members of our engineering and software development teams for the continued performance of our software. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, disruptions in our computing and communications infrastructure. Factors that may cause such disruptions include:. ·    human error;. ·    security breaches;. ·    telecommunications outages from third-party providers;. ·    computer viruses;. ·    acts of terrorism, sabotage or other intentional acts of vandalism, including cyber attacks;. ·    unforeseen interruption or damages experienced in moving hardware to a new location;. ·    fire, earthquake, flood and other natural disasters; and. ·    power loss.. Although we generally back up our client databases hourly, store our data in more than one geographically distinct location at least weekly and perform real-time mirroring of data to disaster recovery locations, we do not currently offer immediate access to disaster recovery locations in the event of a disaster or major outage. Thus, in the event of any of the factors described above, or other failures of our computing infrastructure, clients may not be able to access their data for lengthy periods of time and it is possible that client data from recent transactions may be permanently lost or otherwise compromised. In addition, we may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate for losses from a major interruption. Moreover, some of our agreements include performance guarantees and service level standards that obligate us to provide credits, refunds or termination rights in the event of a significant disruption in our SaaS hosting network infrastructure or other technical problems that relate to the functionality or design of our software.. 17. Table of Contents. Even if demand for workforce management products and services increases generally, there is no guarantee that demand for SaaS products generally or our products in particular will increase to a corresponding degree, or at all.. The widespread adoption of our products depends not only on strong demand for workforce management products and services generally, but also for products and services delivered via a SaaS business model in particular. A significant number of organizations do not use workforce management products, and it is unclear whether such organizations will ever use these products and, if they do, whether they will choose to use a SaaS workforce management software service or our products in particular. As a result, we cannot assure you that our SaaS workforce management software products will achieve and sustain the high level of market acceptance that is critical for the success of our business.. Because of how we recognize revenue with respect to our workforce management products, a significant downturn in our business may not be immediately reflected in our operating results.. Our revenues consist of SaaS offerings, time-based software subscriptions, and perpetual software license sale arrangements. We recognize revenue from our SaaS arrangements and time-based software subscription agreements monthly over the terms of these arrangements, which typically range from one to three years. As a result, a significant portion of the revenue we report in each quarter is generated from arrangements entered into during previous periods. Consequently, a decline in new subscriptions or SaaS arrangements in any one quarter may not have a significant impact on our revenue and financial performance in that quarter, but will negatively affect our revenue, or rate of revenue growth, and financial performance in future quarters.. In addition, if subscription or SaaS arrangements expire and are not renewed in the same quarter, our revenue and financial performance in that quarter and subsequent quarters will be negatively affected. However, the revenue impact may not be immediately reflected in our operating results to the extent there is an offsetting increase in revenue from perpetual license sales in that same quarter.. Finally, we may be unable to adjust our fixed costs in response to reduced revenue. Accordingly, the effect of significant declines in sales and market acceptance of our products may not be reflected in our short-term operating results.. Because we generally recognize subscription revenue from our clients over the terms of their agreements but incur most costs associated with generating such agreements up front, rapid growth in our client base may put downward pressure on our operating income in the short term.. The expenses associated with generating client agreements are generally incurred up front, while the resulting subscription revenue is generally recognized over the life of the agreements. Accordingly, increased growth in the number of our clients will result in our recognition of more costs than revenue during the early periods covered by such agreements, even in cases where the agreements are expected to be profitable for us over their full terms.. If we fail to adequately protect our proprietary rights, our competitive advantage and brand could be impaired and we may lose valuable assets, generate reduced revenue and incur costly litigation to protect our rights.. Our success is dependent, in part, upon protecting our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of trademarks, service marks, trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our products and services. However, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property may be inadequate. We will not be able to protect our intellectual property if we are unable to enforce our rights or if we do not detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy our products and use information that we regard as proprietary to create products and services that compete with ours. Some license provisions protecting against unauthorized use, copying, transfer and disclosure of our licensed products may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions and foreign countries. Further, the laws of some countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. To the extent we expand our international activities, our exposure to unauthorized copying and use of our products and proprietary information may increase. While our general practice is to enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and consultants and confidentiality agreements with the parties with whom we have strategic relationships and business alliances, these agreements may not be effective in controlling access to and distribution of our products and proprietary information. Further, these agreements do not prevent our competitors from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products. Litigation brought to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly, time consuming and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. If we fail to secure, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, we may lose valuable assets, generate reduced revenue and incur costly litigation to protect our rights, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. 18. Table of Contents. Our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness, including the indebtedness under our Restated Credit Agreement and subordinated promissory notes, could adversely affect our operations and limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business or acquire additional businesses. If we are unable to comply with restrictions in, or cannot repay or refinance our indebtedness, the repayment of our indebtedness could be accelerated.. In order to consummate our acquisitions in 2017 and January of 2018, we incurred approximately $13.7 million of subordinated indebtedness in connection with the notes issued to the sellers. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, we have approximately $68.3 million in senior, secured debt outstanding under our Restated Credit Agreement. Our high level of indebtedness could adversely affect our business in the following ways, among others:. ·    make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations under our current debt obligations, or other indebtedness, as well as our contractual and commercial commitments, and could increase the risk that we may default on our debt obligations;. ·    require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on our current debt obligations or other indebtedness, which would reduce the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;. ·    limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other investments or general corporate purposes, which may limit the ability to execute our business strategy;. ·    heighten our vulnerability to downturns in our business, our industry or in the general economy, and restrict us from exploiting business opportunities or making acquisitions;. ·    place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to those of our competitors that may have proportionately less debt;. ·    limit management's discretion in operating our business;. ·    limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, the industry in which we operate or the general economy; and. ·    result in higher interest expense if interest rates increase.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our indebtedness depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors that may be beyond our control. Our business may not generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and support our growth strategies. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow, we may be required to pursue one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations, including under our current debt obligations. In addition, if for any reason we are unable to meet our debt service and repayment obligations, we would be in default under the terms of our Restated Credit Agreement, which would allow our creditors at that time to declare all outstanding indebtedness to be due and payable. Under these circumstances, our lenders could compel us to apply all of our available cash to repay our indebtedness.. 19. Table of Contents. Our ability to incur debt and the use of our funds could be limited by the restrictive covenants in our loan agreement for our term loan and revolving credit facility.. Our Restated Credit Agreement with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. provides for a term loan and revolving credit facility that contains restrictive covenants, including restrictions on our ability to pay dividends to stockholders, as well as requirements to comply with certain leverage ratios and other financial maintenance tests. These restrictive covenants and requirements limit the amount of borrowings that are available to us. The Restated Credit Agreement covenants may also affect our ability to obtain future financing and to pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. These covenants could place us at a disadvantage compared to some of our competitors, who may have fewer restrictive covenants and may not be required to operate under these restrictions.. Sales, or the potential for sales, of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market by us or our existing stockholders could cause our stock price to fall.. The sale of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could harm the prevailing market price of shares of our common stock. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to raise capital through the sale of equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. As of March 12, 2018, we had a total of 12,584,036 shares of common stock outstanding.. The entities and persons affiliated with iSystems Holdings, LLC beneficially own 1,526,332 shares of our common stock, or approximately 12% of our outstanding common stock based on shares outstanding as of March 12, 2018. Pursuant to an investors rights agreement entered into between the parties in connection with our acquisition of iSystems (the \"Investors Rights Agreement\"), Holdings has requested that we file a registration statement to register its shares of our common stock for resale to the public. Under the Investor Rights Agreement, public resales of shares registered under this registration statement, once declared effective, may not occur until after May 25, 2018. Any sales of these shares in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. Our stock price has been, and likely will continue to be, volatile.. The market price of our common stock has in the past been, and is likely to continue in the future to be, volatile. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016, the Nasdaq closing price of one share of our common stock reached a high of $9.55 and a low of $4.36. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, it reached a high of $16.44 and a low of $9.00. That volatility depends upon many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:. ·  announcements regarding the results of expansion or development efforts by us or our competitors;. ·  announcements regarding the acquisition of businesses or companies by us or our competitors;. ·  technological innovations or new products and services developed by us or our competitors;. ·  changes in foreign or domestic regulations;. ·  issuance of new or changed securities analysts' reports and/or recommendations applicable to us or our competitors;. ·  additions or departure of our key personnel;. ·  actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial and operating results and degree of trading liquidity in our common stock; and. ·  political or economic uncertainties.. One or more of these factors could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. In addition, stock markets generally have experienced significant price and volume volatility. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many public companies for reasons frequently unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the specific companies.. 20. Table of Contents. We are exposed to the credit risks of our customers; if we have inadequately assessed their creditworthiness, we may have more exposure to accounts receivable risk than we anticipate. Failure to collect our accounts receivable in amounts that we anticipate could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. We grant credit to customers in the ordinary course of business, exposing us to the credit risk of our customers. In the course of our sales to customers, we may encounter difficulty collecting accounts receivable, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. We maintain reserves for potential credit losses. However, these reserves are based on our judgment and a variety of factors and assumptions.. We perform credit evaluations of our customers' financial condition. However, our evaluation of the creditworthiness of customers may not be accurate if they do not provide us with timely and accurate financial information or if their situations change after we evaluate their credit. While we attempt to monitor these situations carefully, adjust our allowances for doubtful accounts as appropriate and take measures to collect accounts receivable balances, we have written down accounts receivable and written off doubtful accounts in prior periods and may be unable to avoid additional write-downs or write-offs of doubtful accounts in the future. Such write-downs or write-offs could negatively affect our operating results for the period in which they occur, and could harm our financial condition.. Our effective tax rate may fluctuate as a result of new tax laws and our interpretations of those new tax laws, which are subject to significant judgments and estimates. The ongoing effects of the new tax laws and the refinement of provisional estimates could make our results difficult to predict.. Our effective tax rate may fluctuate as a result of new tax laws and our interpretations of those new tax laws, which are subject to significant judgments and estimates. The ongoing effects of the new tax laws and the refinement of provisional estimates could make our results difficult to predict.. Our effective tax rate may fluctuate in the future as a result of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Act), which was enacted on December 22, 2017. The Act introduces significant changes to U.S. income tax law that will have a meaningful impact on our provision for income taxes once we release our valuation allowance. Accounting for the income tax effects of the Act requires significant judgments and estimates in the interpretation and calculations of the provisions of the Act.. Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the Act, we made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017. The U.S. Treasury Department, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), and other standard-setting bodies may issue guidance on how provisions of the Act will be applied or otherwise administered that is different from our interpretation. As we collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret the Act and any additional guidance issued by the IRS or other standard-setting bodies, we may make adjustments to the provisional amounts that could materially affect our financial position and results of operations as well as our effective tax rate in the period in which the adjustments are made. Further, foreign governments may enact local tax laws in response to the Act which may result in additional changes that could materially affect our financial position and results of operations.. We face risks associated with expanding our sales outside of the United States.. We believe that our future growth depends in part upon our ability to increase sales in international markets. These sales are subject to a variety of risks, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates, tariffs, import restrictions and other trade barriers, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, longer accounts receivable payment cycles, potentially adverse tax consequences and export license requirements. In addition, we are subject to the risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including political and economic instability and unexpected changes in diplomatic and trade relationships. Currency fluctuations may also increase the relative price of our products in international markets and thereby could also cause our products to become less affordable or less price competitive than those of international competitors. These risks associated with international operations may have a material adverse effect on our revenue from or costs associated with international sales.. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse, unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and affect our reported operating results.. A change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business.. 21. Table of Contents. As a public company, we are obligated to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. If our internal control over financial reporting is ineffective, our financial reporting may not be accurate, complete and timely, and our auditors may be unable to attest to its effectiveness when required, thus adversely affecting investor confidence in our company.. We are required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to furnish a report by management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our auditors also need to audit and provide an attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.. We have incurred and continue to incur significant costs assessing our system of internal control over financial reporting and processing documentation necessary to perform the evaluation needed to comply with Section 404.We may discover, and may not be able to remediate, future significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, or we may be unable to complete our evaluation, testing or any required remediation in a timely fashion. Failure of our internal control over financial reporting to be effective could cause our financial reporting to be inaccurate, incomplete or delayed. Moreover, even if there is no inaccuracy, incompletion or delay of reporting results, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert, and our auditors will be unable to affirm, that our internal control is effective, in which case investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock.. The results of the United Kingdom's referendum on withdrawal from the European Union may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business.. In June 2016, a majority of voters in the United Kingdom elected to withdraw from the European Union in a national referendum. In March 2017, the United Kingdom formally notified the European Union of its intention to withdraw pursuant to Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty. The referendum was advisory, and the terms of withdrawal are subject to a negotiation period that could last until March 2019. The referendum and the ensuing process of the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union has created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union, including with respect to the laws and regulations that will apply as the United Kingdom determines which European Union laws to replace or replicate in the event of a withdrawal. The referendum has also given rise to calls for the governments of other European Union member states to consider withdrawal. These developments, or the perception that any of them could occur, have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets, and may significantly reduce global market liquidity and restrict the ability of key market participants to operate in certain financial markets. Any of these factors could depress economic activity and restrict our access to capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. To the extent that our pre-tax income or loss becomes relatively modest, our ability to conclude that a control deficiency is not a material weakness or that an accounting error does not require a restatement could be adversely affected.. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our management is required to assess the impact of control deficiencies based upon both quantitative and qualitative factors, and depending upon that analysis, we classify such identified deficiencies as either a control deficiency, significant deficiency or a material weakness. One element of our analysis of the significance of any control deficiency is its actual or potential financial impact. This assessment will vary depending on our level of pre-tax income or loss. For example, a smaller pre-tax income or loss will increase the likelihood of a quantitative assessment of a control deficiency as a significant deficiency or material weakness.. To the extent that our pre-tax income or loss is relatively small, if management or our independent registered public accountants identify an error in our interim or annual financial statements, it is more likely that such an error may be determined to be a material weakness or be considered a material error that could, depending upon the complete quantitative and qualitative analysis, result in our having to restate previously issued financial statements.. Our balance sheet includes significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets. The impairment of a significant portion of these assets would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. As a result of our acquisitions, a significant portion of our total assets consist of intangible assets, including goodwill. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets together accounted for approximately 56% of the total assets on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2017. We may not realize the full fair value of our intangible assets and goodwill. We expect to engage in additional acquisitions, which may result in our recognition of additional identifiable intangible assets and goodwill. We will evaluate on a regular basis whether all or a portion of our goodwill and identifiable intangible assets may be impaired. Under current accounting rules, any determination that impairment has occurred would require us to write off the impaired portion of goodwill and such intangible assets, resulting in a charge to our earnings. An impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. 22. Table of Contents. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future, and you must rely on increases in the market price of our common stock for returns on equity investment.. For the foreseeable future, we intend to retain any earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock. In addition, our Restated Credit Agreement contains limitations on our ability to pay dividends and make other distributions. Accordingly, investors must be prepared to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation to earn an investment return, which may never occur. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, financial condition, capital requirements, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our board deems relevant.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited.. As of December 31, 2017, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $130.1 million and research and development credit carryforwards of approximately $5.6 million, which begin expiring in 2018. Under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change,\" the corporation's ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre- change tax attributes, such as research tax credits, to offset its post-change income and taxes may be limited. In general, an \"ownership change\" occurs if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by \"5% shareholders\" that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. Similar rules apply under state tax laws. In the event that it is determined that we have in the past experienced ownership changes, or if we experience one or more ownership changes as a result of future transactions in our stock, then we may be limited in our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and other tax assets to reduce taxes owed on the net taxable income that we earn. Any such limitations on the ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and other tax assets could adversely impact our business, operating results, and financial condition.. Our stockholder rights plan, or \"poison pill,\" includes terms and conditions which could discourage a takeover or other transaction that stockholders may consider favorable.. On October 28, 2009, stockholders of record at the close of business on that date received a dividend of one right (a \"Right\") for each outstanding share of common stock. Each Right entitles the registered holder to purchase one one-thousandth of a share of Series A junior participating preferred stock of the Company (the \"Preferred Stock\"), at a price of $11.63 per one thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock, subject to adjustment (the \"Exercise Price\"). The Rights are not exercisable until the Distribution Date referred to below. The description and terms of the Rights are set forth in the Amended and Restated Rights Agreement between the Company and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company LLC, dated as of October 28, 2009.. The Amended and Restated Rights Agreement imposes a significant penalty upon any person or group that acquires 4.9% or more (but less than 50%) of our then-outstanding common stock without the prior approval of the board of directors. Stockholders who own 4.9% or more of our then-outstanding common stock as of the close of business on the Record Date will not trigger the Amended and Restated Rights Agreement so long as they do not increase their ownership of the common stock after the Record Date by more than one-half of 1% of the then-outstanding common stock. A person or group that acquires shares of our common stock in excess of the above-mentioned applicable threshold, subject to certain limited exceptions, is called an \"Acquiring Person.\" Any rights held by an Acquiring Person are void and may not be exercised. The Rights will not be exercisable until 10 days after a public announcement by us that a person or group has become an Acquiring Person. On the date (if any) that the Rights become exercisable (the \"Distribution Date\"), each Right would allow its holder to purchase one one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock for a purchase price of $11.63. In addition, if a person or group becomes an Acquiring Person after the Distribution Date or already is an Acquiring Person and acquires more shares after the Distribution Date, all holders of Rights, except the Acquiring Person, may exercise their rights to purchase a number of shares of the common stock (in lieu of Preferred Stock) with a market value of twice the Exercise Price, upon payment of the purchase price.. The Rights will expire on the earliest of (a) October 28, 2019, (b) the exchange or redemption of the Rights, (c) consummation of a merger or consolidation or sale of assets resulting in expiration of the Rights, (d) the consummation of a reorganization transaction entered that the board of directors determines will help prevent an \"Ownership Change,\" as defined in Section 382 of the Code and protect our net operating losses, (e) the repeal of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code or any successor statute, or any other change, if the board of directors determines the Amended and Restated Rights Agreement is no longer necessary for the preservation of tax benefits, or (f) the beginning of a taxable year to which the board of directors determines that no tax benefits may be carried forward.. 23. Table of Contents. We may, at our option and with the approval of the board of directors, at any time prior to the close of business on the earlier of (i) the tenth day following the first date of public announcement by us or an Acquiring Person that an Acquiring Person has become such or such later date as may be determined by action of a majority of the members of the board of directors then in office and publicly announced by us or (ii) October 28, 2019, redeem all but not less than all the then outstanding Rights at a redemption price of $0.067 per Right (such redemption price being herein referred to as the \"Redemption Price\"). We may, at our option, pay the Redemption Price either in common stock (based on the current per share market price thereof) or cash; provided, that if the board of directors authorizes redemption of the Rights on or after the time a person becomes an Acquiring Person, then such authorization shall require the concurrence of a majority of the members of the board of directors then in office. In addition, after a person becomes an Acquiring Person the board of directors may exchange the Rights (other than Rights owned by the Acquiring Person or its affiliates), in whole or in part, at an exchange ratio of one common share per Right (subject to adjustment).. The Rights have certain anti-takeover effects, including potentially discouraging a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. The Rights will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by the board of directors. On the other hand, the Rights should not interfere with any merger or other business combination approved by the board of directors since the Rights may be redeemed by us at the Redemption Price prior to the date ten days after the public announcement that a person or group has become the beneficial owner of 4.9% or more of the common stock, and any securities which a person or any of such person's affiliates may be deemed to have the right to acquire pursuant to any merger or other acquisition agreement between us and such person may be excluded from the calculation of their beneficial ownership if such agreement has been approved by the board of directors prior to them becoming an Acquiring Person.. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable and may lead to entrenchment of our management and board of directors.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in our management or our board of directors. These provisions include:. ·    no cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates;. ·    in addition to our current stockholders rights plan, the ability of our board of directors to further issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer;. ·    the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the Chairman of the board of directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the Secretary at the request of the board of directors or upon the written request, stating the purpose of the meeting, of stockholders who together own of record 10% of the outstanding shares of each class of stock entitled to vote at such meeting, which may delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; and. ·    advance notice procedures that stockholders must comply with in order to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders' meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us.. We are also subject to certain anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not, in general, engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. We have not opted out of this provision of Delaware law."
