[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. This section highlights specific risks that could affect our Company. You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10 - K. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our Company. However, the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones related to our business and are. 18. Table of Contents. not necessarily listed in the order of their importance. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events or if the circumstances described in the risks and uncertainties occur or continue to occur, these events or circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. These events could also have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities.. Risks Related to Our Structure. We may not generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations or implement our business plan, including financing internal or external growth opportunities. We continue to focus on executing our business plan, including the objectives of enhancing the value of our existing assets through discretionary capital investments and commercial activities, delevering our balance sheet to improve our cost of capital and ability to compete for new investments, improving our cost structure and reducing overhead. However, we may not generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations or implement our business plan, including financing internal or external growth opportunities.. Our ability to make required payments under our outstanding indebtedness, as well as meeting the greater of the requirements of the 50% cash sweep or the targeted debt balance,  or to prepay or redeem any such indebtedness, will depend on our financial and operating performance, including our ability to generate cash flow from operations in the future. As a result, we may be required to refinance such indebtedness and/or obtain third - party financing in order to repay, redeem or refinance such indebtedness when it comes due. There can be no assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings or refinancing opportunities will be available to us at an acceptable cost, in amounts sufficient, or at all, to enable us to service our debt obligations or to repay or redeem any such indebtedness at maturity, particularly because of our high levels of debt and the debt incurrence restrictions imposed by the various agreements governing our indebtedness. Steps taken to refinance our indebtedness or obtain other third - party financing, if any, may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition.. In addition, a payout of a significant portion of our cash flow to service our debt, including pursuant to the mandatory amortization feature of the Credit Facilities, or through preferred dividends, may result in us not retaining a sufficient amount of cash to finance growth and reinvestment opportunities, including through the acquisition of additional projects, to the extent any such acquisitions are otherwise available to us. As a result, we may have to forego growth and reinvestment opportunities that would otherwise be desirable, if we do not find alternative sources of financing for such opportunities. In addition, even if we are able to find alternative sources of financing for such opportunities, we may be precluded from pursuing an otherwise attractive acquisition or investment if the projected short - term cash flow from the acquisition or investment is not adequate to service the capital raised to fund such acquisition or investment. This could also limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry, placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to identify, finance or close any transactions associated with any such growth or reinvestment opportunities on acceptable terms or timing, or at all.. Further, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, our ability to support our liquidity needs, including, but not limited to servicing our debt obligations, including pursuant to the mandatory amortization feature of the Credit Facilities, or financing internal or external growth opportunities, will depend on our ability to access the credit and capital markets, neither of which may be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Further, access to the credit and capital markets and the cost and availability of credit may be adversely affected by factors beyond our control, including turmoil in the financial services industry, volatility in securities trading markets and general economic conditions. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to access the credit or capital markets on acceptable terms or timing, or at all.. 19. Table of Contents. Our Credit Facilities contain certain terms, covenants and restrictions that could impact our available cash flow and restrict our ability to make acquisitions or investments or issue additional indebtedness. Our Credit Facilities contain certain terms, covenants and restrictions, including a mandatory amortization feature and customary prepayment provisions. Such terms, covenants and restrictions may impact our available cash flow and limit our ability to retain sufficient amounts of cash to service our debt obligations or finance internal or external growth opportunities. Our Credit Facilities are a primary source of our liquidity. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources\".. The covenants under the Credit Facilities include a requirement that APLP Holdings Limited Partnership (\"APLP Holdings\") and its subsidiaries maintain certain leverage and interest coverage ratios (each, as defined in the credit agreement governing the Credit Facilities (the \"Credit Agreement\")). The Credit Facilities also contain customary restrictions and limitations on the Partnership's and its subsidiaries' ability to (i) incur additional indebtedness, (ii) grant liens on any of their assets, (iii) change their conduct of business or enter into mergers, consolidations, reorganizations, or certain other corporate transactions, (iv) dispose of assets, (v) modify material contractual obligations, (vi) enter into affiliate transactions, (vii) incur capital expenditures, and (viii) make dividend payments or other distributions, in each case, subject to customary carve - outs and exceptions and various thresholds. Any such limitations could restrict our ability to, among other things, make acquisitions or investments or issue additional indebtedness.. Our indebtedness and financing arrangements, and any failure to comply with the covenants contained therein, could negatively impact our business and our projects and could render us unable to make preferred dividend payments, acquisitions or investments or issue additional indebtedness we otherwise would seek to do. The degree to which we are leveraged on a consolidated basis could have important consequences for our shareholders and other stakeholders, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability in the future to obtain additional financing for, among other things, the repayment or redemption of indebtedness and other debt service obligations and investment in internal and external growth opportunities, including the acquisition of additional projects, to the extent any such acquisitions are otherwise available to us, or other purposes;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to refinance indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to satisfy debt service and other obligations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour vulnerability to general adverse industry conditions and economic conditions, including but not limited to adverse changes in foreign exchange rates and commodity prices;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe availability of cash flow to fund other corporate purposes and grow our business;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour competitive position relative to our competitors that are not as highly leveraged.. As of December 31, 2017, our consolidated long - term debt represented approximately 81% of our total capitalization, comprised of debt and balance sheet equity.. The agreements governing our indebtedness limit, but do not prohibit, the incurrence of additional indebtedness. Our current or future borrowings could increase the level of financial risk to us and, to the extent that the interest rates are not fixed and rise, or that borrowings are refinanced at higher rates, our available cash flow and results of operations could be adversely affected. Changes in interest rates do not have a significant impact on cash payments that are required on our debt instruments as approximately 82% of our debt, including our share of the project - level debt associated with equity investments in affiliates, either bears interest at fixed rates or is financially hedged through the use of interest rate swaps.. 20. Table of Contents. As of December 31, 2017, we had (i) no amount outstanding and $80.5 million issued in letters of credit under our revolving credit facility, (ii) $107.1 million of outstanding convertible debentures, and (iii) $738.7 million of outstanding Term Loan,  Medium term Notes and non - recourse project - level debt.. In addition, some of our projects currently have non - recourse term loans or other financing arrangements in place with various lenders. These financing arrangements are typically secured by all of the project assets and contracts as well as our equity interests in the project. The terms of these financing arrangements generally impose many covenants and obligations on the part of the borrower. For example, some of these agreements contain requirements to maintain specified historical, and in some cases, prospective debt service coverage ratios before cash may be distributed from the relevant project to us, which would adversely affect our available cash flow. We have, in the past, failed to meet the cash flow coverage ratio tests at certain of our projects, which restricted those projects from making cash distributions. Although all of our projects with non-recourse loans are currently meeting their debt service requirements, we cannot provide any assurances that our projects will generate enough future cash flow to meet any applicable ratio tests in order to be able to make distributions to us.. In many cases, an uncured default by any party under key project agreements (such as a PPA or a fuel supply agreement) will also constitute a default under the project's term loan or other financing arrangement. Failure to comply with the terms of these term loans or other financing arrangements, or events of default thereunder, may prevent cash distributions by the particular project(s) to us and may entitle the lenders to demand repayment and/or enforce their security interests, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, failure to comply with the terms, restrictions or obligations of any of our revolving credit facility, convertible debentures or Credit Facilities, or the preferred shares of the Partnership, or any other financing arrangements, borrowings or indebtedness, or events of default thereunder, may entitle the lenders to demand repayment, accelerate related debt as well as any other debt to which a cross - default or cross - acceleration provision applies and/or enforce their security interests, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if and for as long as we have failed to declare, or are in arrears on the payment of, dividends on the Series 1 Shares, the Series 2 Shares or the Series 3 Shares, the Partnership will not make any distributions on its limited partnership units. Additionally, if our lenders under our indebtedness demand payment, we may not, at that time, have sufficient cash and cash flows from operating activities to repay such indebtedness.. Our failure to refinance or repay any indebtedness when due could constitute a default under such indebtedness and restrict our ability to take certain actions, including paying dividends on the Series 1 Shares, the Series 2 Shares or the Series 3 Shares. In addition, any covenant breach or event of default could harm our credit rating and our ability to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms or at all. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. Paying dividends on the Series 1 Shares, the Series 2 Shares or the Series 3 Shares could also be restricted if we fail to meet the targeted debt balances of the Credit Facilities, even though failing to do so would not result in an event of default.. Exchange rate volatility may affect our available cash flow and results of operations. Our dividend payments on our preferred shares and our interest payments on some of our corporate - level long - term debt and convertible debentures are denominated in Canadian dollars. Conversely, some of our projects' revenues and expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars. Our Canadian dollar-denominated debt instruments are revalued at each balance sheet date based on the U.S. dollar to Canadian dollar foreign exchange rate at the balance sheet date, with changes in the value of the debt recorded in the consolidated statements of operations. The U.S. dollar to Canadian dollar foreign exchange rate has been volatile in recent years, which in turn creates volatility in our results due to the revaluation of our Canadian dollar - denominated debt. Although we currently generate sufficient revenues in Canadian dollars to fund our Canadian dollar obligations, future exchange rate volatility or changes to our Canadian dollar revenues could expose us to currency exchange rate risks, against which we do not typically hedge. Any arrangements to mitigate this exchange rate risk may not be sufficient to fully protect against this risk. If hedging transactions do not fully. 21. Table of Contents. protect against this risk, changes in the currency exchange rate between U.S. and Canadian dollars could adversely affect our available cash flow and results of operations.. A downgrade in our credit rating or in the credit rating of our outstanding debt securities, or any deterioration in credit quality, could negatively affect our ability to access capital and our ability to hedge, and could trigger termination rights under certain contracts. A downgrade in our credit rating, a downgrade in the credit rating of our outstanding debt securities, or any deterioration in credit quality could adversely affect our ability to renew existing, or obtain access to new, credit facilities and could increase the cost of such facilities, restrict access to our revolving credit facility and/or trigger termination rights or enhanced disclosure requirements under certain contracts to which we are a party. Any downgrade of our corporate credit rating could also cause counterparties to require us to post letters of credit or other additional collateral, make cash prepayments, or obtain a guarantee agreement, all of which would expose us to additional costs and/or could adversely affect our ability to comply with covenants or other obligations under any of our revolving credit facility, convertible debentures or unsecured notes or any other financing arrangements, borrowings or indebtedness (or could constitute an event of default under any such financing arrangements, borrowings or indebtedness that we may be unable to cure), any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Changes in our creditworthiness may affect the value of our common shares. Changes to our perceived creditworthiness and ability to meet our required covenants on an ongoing basis may affect the market price or value and the liquidity of our common shares.. The future issuance of additional common shares could dilute existing shareholders. From time to time, we may decide to issue additional common shares, redeem outstanding debt for common shares, repay outstanding principal amounts under existing debt by issuing common shares, or issue equity-related securities such as convertible debt. We may also, from time to time, decide to issue common shares to meet strategic objectives or in connection with acquiring assets or pursuing broader strategic options. We also have the option to convert our convertible debentures to common shares at their respective maturity dates. The issuance of additional common shares may have a dilutive effect on shareholders and may adversely impact the price of our common shares.. Volatile capital and credit markets may adversely affect our ability to raise capital on favorable terms and may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets in the United States, Canada or abroad can adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets. Our access to funds under our credit facility is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facility to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short period of time. Longer - term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of turmoil in the financial services industry, volatility in securities trading markets and general economic conditions could result in an inability to support our liquidity needs, including, but not limited to, the service of our debt obligations or financing of internal or external growth opportunities. See \" - We may not generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations or implement our business plan, including financing internal or external growth opportunities.\". Our ability to arrange for financing on a recourse or non - recourse basis and the costs of such capital are dependent on numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgeneral industry, economic and capital market conditions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe availability of bank credit;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinvestor confidence;. 22. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour financial condition, performance and prospects as well as companies in our industry or similar financial circumstances; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in tax and securities laws which are conducive to raising capital.. Should future access to capital not be available to us, either as a result of market conditions or our financial condition, we may not be able to service our debt obligations or finance internal or external growth opportunities, any of which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We have guaranteed the performance of some of our subsidiaries, which may result in substantial costs in the event of non - performance. We have issued certain guarantees of the performance of some of our subsidiaries in certain situations, which obligates us to perform in the event that the subsidiaries do not perform. In the event of non - performance by the subsidiaries, we could incur substantial cost to fulfill our obligations under these guarantees. Such performance guarantees could have a material impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. See Notes 11 and 23 to the consolidated financial statements for information on our guarantee obligations.. We have anti - takeover protections that may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control that could benefit our shareholders.. The Business Corporations Act (British Columbia) (the \"BCBCA\") and our Articles of Continuance contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors (\"Board\"). These provisions include:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tAs a notice of meeting is required to include certain particulars in the case where a shareholder meeting is being requisitioned by shareholders, our Board must be given advance notice regarding special business that is to be brought by such requisitioning shareholders before the shareholder meeting. For special business, advance notice describing the special business to be discussed at the meeting must be provided and that notice must include any documents to be approved or ratified as an addendum or state that such document will be available for inspection at our records office or other reasonably accessible location;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tUnder the BCBCA, shareholders may make proposals for matters to be considered at the annual general meeting of shareholders, provided that such shareholders represent at least 1% of the voting shares of a company or such shares have a fair market value of at least Cdn$2,000. Such proposals must be sent to us in advance of any proposed meeting by delivering a timely written notice in proper form to our registered office. The notice must include information on the business the shareholder intends to bring before the meeting. These provisions could have the effect of delaying until the next shareholder meeting shareholder actions that are favored by the holders of a majority of our outstanding voting securities; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tCasual vacancies on our Board can be approved prior to the next annual meeting of shareholders by the directors of our Board of Directors.. If we experience a change of control, unless we elect to make a voluntary prepayment of the term loan under the Credit Facilities, the Partnership will be required to offer each electing lender to prepay such lender's term loans under the Credit Facilities at a price equal to 101% of par. Additionally, a change in control will permit holders of our convertible debentures to require that we purchase the debentures upon the conditions set forth in the respective indenture governing the debentures, which may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control or the acquisition of a substantial block of our common shares. In addition, some of our PPAs or other commercial agreements may contain change of control provisions.. 23. Table of Contents. We have a shareholder rights plan in place that may delay or prevent a change of control or the acquisition of a substantial block of our common shares and may make any future unsolicited acquisition attempt more difficult. Under the rights plan:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe rights will generally become exercisable if a person or group acquires 20% or more of Atlantic Power's outstanding common shares (unless such transaction is a \"permitted bid\" or a transaction to which the application of the shareholders rights plan has been waived pursuant to the terms of the plan) and thus becomes an \"acquiring person.\" A \"permitted bid\" is an offer pursuant to which, among other things, such person or group agrees to hold the offer open to all shareholders for a period longer than the statutorily required period;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tEach right, when exercisable, will entitle the holder, other than the \"acquiring person,\" to acquire shares of Atlantic Power's common shares at a significant discount to the then - prevailing market price; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tAs a result, the rights plan may cause substantial dilution to a person or group that becomes an \"acquiring person\" and may discourage or delay a merger or acquisition that shareholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares.. Our common shares may not continue to be qualified investments under Canadian tax laws. There can be no assurance that our common shares will continue to be qualified investments under relevant Canadian tax laws for trusts governed by registered retirement savings plans, registered retirement income funds, deferred profit sharing plans, registered education savings plans, registered disability savings plans and tax - free savings accounts. Canadian tax laws impose penalties for the acquisition or holding of non - qualified or ineligible investments.. We are subject to Canadian tax. As a Canadian corporation, we are generally subject to Canadian federal, provincial and other taxes, and dividends paid by us are generally subject to Canadian withholding tax if paid to a shareholder that is not a resident of Canada. We hold promissory notes from our U.S. holding companies (the \"Intercompany Notes\") and are required to include, in computing our taxable income, interest on the Intercompany Notes.. Canadian federal income tax laws and policies could be changed in a manner which adversely affects holders of our common shares. There can be no assurance that Canadian federal income tax laws and Canada Revenue Agency administrative policies respecting the Canadian federal income tax consequences generally applicable to us, to our subsidiaries, or to a U.S. or Canadian holder of common shares will not be changed in a manner which adversely affects holders of our common shares.. Our current structure may be subject to additional U.S. federal income tax liability. Under our current structure, our subsidiaries that are incorporated in the United States are subject to U.S. federal income tax on their income at regular corporate rates (currently as high as 21%, plus state and local taxes), and two of our U.S. holding companies will claim interest deductions with respect to the Intercompany Notes in computing their income for U.S. federal income tax purposes. To the extent any interest expense under the Intercompany Notes is disallowed or is otherwise not deductible, the U.S. federal income tax liability of our U.S. holding companies will increase, which could materially affect the after - tax cash available to distribute to us.. We received advice from our U.S. tax counsel at the time of the issuance, based on certain representations by us and our U.S. holding companies and determinations made by our independent advisors, as applicable, that the Intercompany Notes should be treated as debt for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, it is possible that the Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") could successfully challenge these positions and assert that any of these arrangements should be treated as equity rather than debt for U.S. federal income tax purposes or that the interest on. 24. Table of Contents. such arrangements is otherwise not deductible. In this case, the otherwise deductible interest would be treated as non - deductible distributions and, in the case of the Intercompany Notes, may be subject to U.S. withholding tax to the extent our respective U.S. holding company had current or accumulated earnings and profits. The determination of debt or equity treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes is based on an analysis of the facts and circumstances. There is no clear statutory definition of debt for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and its characterization is governed by principles developed in case law, which analyzes numerous factors that are intended to identify the nature of the purported creditor's interest in the borrower.. Not all courts have applied this analysis in the same manner, and some courts have placed more emphasis on certain factors than other courts have. To the extent it were ultimately determined that our interest expense on the Intercompany Notes were disallowed, our U.S. federal income tax liability for the applicable open tax years would materially increase, which could materially affect the after - tax cash available to us to distribute. Alternatively, the IRS could argue that the interest on the Intercompany Notes exceeded or exceeds an arm's length rate, in which case only the portion of the interest expense that does not exceed an arm's length rate may be deductible and the remainder may be subject to U.S. withholding tax to the extent our U.S. holding companies had current or accumulated earnings and profits. We have received advice from independent advisors that the interest rate on these debt instruments was and is, as applicable, commercially reasonable under the circumstances, but the advice is not binding on the IRS.. Furthermore, our U.S. holding companies' deductions attributable to the interest expense on the Intercompany Notes may be limited by the amount by which each U.S. holding company's net interest expense (the interest paid by each U.S. holding company on all debt, including the Intercompany Notes, less its interest income) exceeds 30% of its adjusted taxable income (generally, U.S. federal taxable income before net interest expense, net operating loss carryovers, and, for tax years beginning before January 1, 2022, depreciation and amortization). Any disallowed interest expense may currently be carried forward to future years. In addition, if our U.S. holding companies do not make regular interest payments as required under these debt agreements, other limitations on the deductibility of interest under U.S. federal income tax laws could apply to defer and/or eliminate all or a portion of the interest deduction that our U.S. holding companies would otherwise be entitled to.. In addition, recently enacted U.S. tax legislation made significant changes to the U.S. federal income tax rules applicable to our activities in the United States. Although the tax legislation enacted on December 22, 2017 reduced the federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, it also added additional limitations on deductions attributable to interest expense (discussed in the preceding paragraph) and introduced \"base erosion\" rules that may effectively limit the tax deductibility of certain payments made by U.S. entities to non-U.S. affiliates. We are continuing to evaluate the full effect of this legislation on our business and operations, although our preliminary estimate based on guidance available as of the date of this filing is that the interest expense limitation and base erosion and anti-abuse tax will not have a material impact to cash taxes in future tax years.. Our U.S. holding companies have existing net operating loss carryforwards that we can utilize to offset future taxable income. Some of these loss carryforwards are subject to an annual limitation on their use. Although we expect these losses will be available to us as a future benefit, in the event that they are successfully challenged by the IRS or subject to additional future limitations, including, but not limited to, as a result of implementation of any of the potential options we are considering, our ability to realize these benefits may be limited. Although not expected, a reduction in our net operating losses, or additional limitations on our ability to use such losses, may result in a material increase in our future income tax liability.. Atlantic Power Preferred Equity Ltd. is subject to Canadian tax, as is Atlantic Power's income from the Partnership. As a Canadian corporation, we are generally subject to Canadian federal, provincial and other taxes. See \"Risks Related to Our Structure - We are subject to Canadian tax.\" We are required to include in computing our taxable income any income earned by the Partnership. In addition, Atlantic Power Preferred Equity Ltd., a subsidiary of the Partnership, is also a Canadian corporation and is generally subject to Canadian federal, provincial and other taxes. Atlantic Power Preferred Equity Ltd. is liable to pay its applicable Canadian taxes.. 25. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Projects. The expiration or termination of our PPAs could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Power generated by our projects, in most cases, is sold under PPAs that expire at various times. Currently, our PPAs are scheduled to expire between September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2037. See Item 1. Business - Our Organization and Segments for details about our projects' PPAs and related expiration dates. In addition, these PPAs may be subject to termination prior to expiration in certain circumstances, including default by the project. When a PPA expires or is terminated, it may be difficult for us to secure a new PPA on acceptable terms or timing, if at all, the price received by the project for power under subsequent arrangements may be reduced significantly, or there may be a delay in securing a new PPA until a significant time after the expiration of the original PPA at the project. It is possible that subsequent PPAs may not be available at prices that permit the operation of the project on a profitable basis. When the affected project temporarily or permanently ceases operations, or when we have an expectation that we will be unable to renew or renegotiate the PPA, the value of the project may be impaired such that we would be required to record an impairment loss under applicable accounting rules. See \" - Impairment of goodwill or long lived assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.\". The enhanced dispatch contracts for our Kapuskasing and North Bay projects expired on December 31, 2017. These two projects, which are no longer under any contractual arrangements and are not in operation, contributed approximately 25% of our 2017 Project Adjusted EBITDA. Another ten of our projects, representing 57% of our operating net MW and 25% of our 2017 Project Adjusted EBITDA, have PPAs or other contractual arrangements that will expire within the next five years. These projects are Naval Station (2018), North Island (2018), Naval Training Center (2018), Kenilworth (2018), Williams Lake (2019), Oxnard (2020), Calstock (2020), Manchief (2022), Frederickson (2022) and Moresby Lake (2022). Additionally, the enhanced dispatch contract at our Nipigon project expires at the end of 2022. Nipigon represents 7% of our 2017 Project Adjusted EBITDA.. Our projects depend on their electricity and thermal energy customers and there is no assurance that these customers will perform their obligations or make required payments. Each of our projects relies on one or more PPAs, steam sales agreements or other agreements with one or more utilities or other customers for a substantial portion of its revenue. At times, we rely on a single customer or a limited number of customers to purchase all or a significant portion of a project's output. In 2017, the largest customers of our power generation projects, including projects recorded under the equity method of accounting, are IESO, Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation, SDG&E and BC Hydro, which purchase approximately 20%, 11%, 10% and 10%, respectively, of the net electric generation capacity of our projects. If a customer stops purchasing output from our power generation projects or purchases less power than anticipated, such customer may be difficult to replace, if at all. Further concentration of our customers would increase our dependence on any one customer. Our cash flows and results of operations, including the amount of cash available to make payments on our indebtedness, are highly dependent upon customers under such agreements fulfilling their contractual obligations. There is no assurance that these customers will perform their contractual obligations or make required payments.. Further, our customers generally have investment - grade credit ratings, as measured by Standard & Poor's. Customers that have assigned ratings at the top end of the range have, in the opinion of the rating agency, the strongest capability for payment of debt or payment of claims, while customers at the bottom end of the range have the weakest capacity. Agency ratings are subject to change, and there can be no assurance that a ratings agency will continue to rate the customers, and/or maintain their current ratings. A security rating may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating agency, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. We cannot predict the effect that a change in the ratings of the customers will have on their liquidity or their ability to pay their debts or other obligations.. 26. Table of Contents. Certain of our projects are exposed to fluctuations in the price of electricity, which may have a material adverse effect on the operating margin of these projects and on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Those of our projects operating without a PPA or with PPAs based on spot market pricing for some or all of their output will be exposed to fluctuations in the wholesale price of electricity. In addition, as PPAs expire or terminate, the relevant project will be required to either negotiate a new PPA or sell into the electricity wholesale market, in which case the prices for electricity will depend on market conditions at the time, which may not be favorable. The open market wholesale prices for electricity are very volatile. Long and short - term power prices may fluctuate substantially due to other factors outside of our control, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in generation capacity in the electricity markets, including the addition of new supplies of power from existing competitors or new market entrants as a result of the development of new generation facilities, expansion or retirement of existing facilities or additional transmission capacity;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\telectric supply disruptions, including plant outages and transmission disruptions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfuel transportation capacity constraints;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tweather conditions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in the demand for power or in patterns of power usage;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdevelopment of new fuels and new technologies for the production or storage of power;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdevelopment of new technologies for the production of natural gas;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tavailability of competitively priced renewable fuel sources;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tavailable supplies of natural gas, crude oil and refined products, and coal;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinterest rate and foreign exchange rate fluctuation;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tavailability and price of emission credits;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgeopolitical concerns affecting global supply of oil and natural gas;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgeneral economic conditions which impact energy consumption in areas where we operate; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpower market, fuel market and environmental regulation and legislation.. The market price for electricity is affected by changes in demand for electricity. Factors such as economic slowdown, worse than expected economic conditions, milder than normal weather, the growth of energy efficiency and efforts aimed at energy conservation, among others, could reduce energy demand or significantly slow the growth in demand for electricity, thereby reducing the market price for electricity. A reduction in demand could contribute to conditions that no longer support the continued operation of certain power generation projects, which could adversely affect our results of operations through increased depreciation rates, impairment charges and accelerated future decommissioning costs, among others.. Our most significant exposure to market power prices is at our Morris and Chambers projects. At Chambers, our utility customer has the right to sell a portion of the plant's output into the spot power market if it is economical to do so, and the Chambers project shares in the profits from these sales. In addition, during periods of low spot electricity prices the utility takes less generation, which negatively affects the project's operating margin. At Morris, approximately 68% of the facility's capacity is currently not contracted. The facility can generate and sell this excess capacity into the. 27. Table of Contents. grid at market prices. If market prices do not justify the increased generation, the project has no requirement to sell any excess capacity. As a result, fluctuations in the price of electricity may have a material adverse effect on the operating margins of these facilities and on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our projects depend on third - party suppliers under fuel supply agreements, and increases in fuel costs may adversely affect the profitability of the projects. The amount of energy generated at the projects is highly dependent on suppliers under certain fuel supply agreements fulfilling their contractual obligations. The loss of significant fuel supply agreements or an inability or failure by any supplier to meet its contractual commitments may adversely affect our results.. Upon the expiration or termination of existing fuel supply agreements, we or our project operators will have to renegotiate these agreements or may need to source fuel from other suppliers. We may not be able to renegotiate these agreements or enter into new agreements on similar terms. There can be no assurance as to availability of the supply or pricing of fuel under new arrangements, and it can be very difficult to accurately predict the future prices of fuel. If our suppliers are unable to perform their contractual obligations or we are unable to renegotiate our fuel supply agreements, we may seek to meet our fuel requirements by purchasing fuel at market prices, exposing us to market price volatility and the risk that fuel and transportation may not be available during certain periods at any price. Changes in market prices for natural gas, biomass, coal and oil may result from the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tweather conditions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tseasonality;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdemand for energy commodities and general economic conditions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tavailability and price of emission credits;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadditional generating capacity;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdisruption or other constraints or inefficiencies of electricity, gas or coal transmission or transportation;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tavailability and levels of storage and inventory for fuel stocks;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnatural gas, crude oil, refined products and coal production levels;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in market liquidity;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgovernmental regulation and legislation; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour creditworthiness and liquidity, and the willingness of fuel suppliers/transporters to do business with us.. Revenues earned by our projects may be affected by the availability, or lack of availability, of a stable supply of fuel at reasonable or predictable prices. The price we can obtain for the sale of energy may not rise at the same rate, or may not rise at all, to match a rise in fuel or delivery costs. To the extent possible, our projects attempt to match fuel cost setting mechanisms in supply agreements to energy payment formulas in the PPA and to provide for indexing or pass - through of fuel costs to customers. In cases where there is no pass - through of fuel costs, we often attempt to mitigate the market price risk of changing commodity costs through the use of hedging strategies. To the extent that costs are not matched well to PPA energy payments, pass-through of fuel costs is not allowed or hedging strategies are unsuccessful, increases in fuel costs may adversely affect our results of operation. This may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our energy payments at our Orlando project are subject to fluctuations as the energy payments are comprised of a fuel component based on an index of the cost of coal.. 28. Table of Contents. Our projects may not operate as planned. The ability of our projects to meet availability requirements and generate the required amount of power to be sold to customers under the PPAs are primary determinants of the amount of cash that will be distributed from the projects to us, and that will in turn be available for debt service obligations, investments in internal or external growth opportunities or funding of our operations. There is a risk of equipment failure due to wear and tear, more frequent and/or larger than forecasted downtimes for equipment maintenance and repair, unexpected construction delays, latent defect, design error or operator error, or force majeure events, among other things, which could adversely affect revenues and cash flow. Additionally, older equipment, even if maintained in accordance with good practices, is subject to operational failure, including events that are beyond our control, and may require unplanned expenditures to operate efficiently. Unplanned outages of generation facilities, including extensions of scheduled outages due to mechanical failures or other problems occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of our business. Unplanned outages typically increase our operation and maintenance expenses and may reduce our revenues or require us to incur significant costs as a result of obtaining replacement power from third parties in the open market to satisfy our obligations.. In general, our power generation projects transmit electric power to the transmission grid for purchase under the PPAs through a single step up transformer. As a result, the transformer represents a single point of vulnerability and may exhibit no abnormal behavior in advance of a catastrophic failure that could cause a temporary shutdown of the facility until a replacement transformer can be found or manufactured. To the extent that we suffer disruptions of plant availability and power generation due to transformer failures or for any other reason, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and the amount of available cash flow may be adversely affected.. We provide letters of credit under our $200 million Revolving Credit Facility for contractual credit support at some of our projects. If the projects fail to perform under the related project - level agreements, the letters of credit could be drawn and we would be required to reimburse our senior lenders for the amounts drawn.. The effects of weather and climate change may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations are affected by weather conditions, which directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and affect the price of energy commodities. Temperatures above normal levels in the summer tend to increase summer cooling electricity demand and revenues, and temperatures below normal levels in the winter tend to increase winter heating electricity and gas demand and revenues. Conversely, moderate temperatures in winter or summer decrease heating or cooling electricity and gas demand and revenues. To the extent that weather is warmer in the summer or colder in the winter than assumed, we may require greater resources to meet our contractual commitments. These conditions, which cannot be accurately predicted, may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition by causing us to seek additional capacity at a time when wholesale markets are tight or to seek to sell excess capacity at a time when markets are weak.. To the extent climate change contributes to the frequency or intensity of weather-related events, our operations and planning process could be impacted, which may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Revenues from hydropower projects are highly dependent on precipitation and associated weather conditions and in the absence of such suitable conditions, our hydropower projects may not meet anticipated production levels, which could adversely affect our forecasted revenues. We own interests in four hydropower projects, which are subject to substantial resource risks. The energy and revenues generated at a hydro energy project are highly dependent on precipitation patterns, which are variable and difficult to predict for any given year. We base our investment decisions with respect to each hydro energy project on the historical stream flow records for the area. However, actual climatic conditions in any given year may not meet the historical averages which would impair our ability to meet anticipated production levels, which could adversely affect our forecasted revenues.. 29. Table of Contents. U.S., Canadian and/or global economic conditions and uncertainty could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business may be affected by changes in U.S., Canadian and/or global economic conditions, including inflation, deflation, interest rates, availability of capital, consumer spending rates and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. Uncertainty about global economic conditions may cause consumers to alter behaviors that may directly or indirectly reduce energy spending, which could have a material adverse effect on demand for our product. Volatility in the financial markets and the deterioration of national and global economic conditions may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Financial markets can also be, and have been in the past, affected by concerns over U.S. fiscal policy, federal deficit and related budget and tax issues. These concerns continue to raise discussions relating to the stability of the long - term sovereign credit rating of the United States. Any actions taken by the U.S. federal government regarding the federal deficit or any action taken or threatened by ratings agencies, could significantly impact the global and U.S. economies and financial markets. Any such economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Economic and political developments in the United States, including as they relate to the North American Free Trade Agreement, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Officials in the new U.S. presidential administration and other policy makers have suggested renegotiations of the North American Free Trade Agreement (\"NAFTA\") and other international trade agreements and the implementation of tariffs, border taxes, border controls and other immigration restrictions, or other measures that could impact the level of trade and mobility between the United States and Canada. At the present time, it remains unclear what specific proposals may be implemented and the extent to which trade and/or border mobility between the United States and Canada would be affected, nor is the long-term impact of proposed reforms (including future reforms that may be part of any enacted reform) on the broader U.S. and Canadian economies clear. Given that we operate plants in both the United States and Canada, our business could be affected should the United States adopt trade or border control policies to restrict trade and/or mobility between the United States and Canada, but it is impossible at the present time to assess what this impact would be. As of February 27, 2018, renegotiations between the United States, Canada and Mexico were ongoing.. Risks that are beyond our control, including but not limited to geopolitical crisis, acts of terrorism or related acts of war, natural disasters or other catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, ability to raise capital and financial condition. Man - made events, such as acts of terror and governmental responses to acts of terror, could adversely affect general economic conditions, which could have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Strategic targets, such as energy - related facilities, may be at greater risk of future terrorist activities than other domestic targets. Our projects may be targets of terrorist activities, as well as events occurring in response to or in connection with them, that could cause environmental repercussions and/or result in full or partial disruption of the ability of the projects to generate and/or transmit electricity. Any such environmental repercussions or other disruption could result in a decline in energy consumption and significant decrease in revenues or significant reconstruction or remediation costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our projects could also be impacted by natural disasters, such as earthquakes, floods, lightning activity, hurricanes, tropical storms, winter storms, tornadoes, wind, seismic activity, more frequent and more extreme weather events, changes in temperature and precipitation patterns, changes to ground and surface water availability, sea level rise and other related phenomena. Severe weather or other natural disasters could be destructive or otherwise disrupt our operations or compromise the physical or cyber security of our facilities, which could result in increased costs and could adversely affect our ability to manage our business effectively. We maintain standard insurance against catastrophic losses, which are subject to deductibles, limits and exclusions; however, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to. 30. Table of Contents. cover all of our losses. Additionally, future significant weather - related events, natural disasters and other similar events that have an adverse effect on the economy could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, ability to raise capital and financial condition.. Our business faces significant operating hazards, natural disaster risks and other hazards such as fire and explosions and insurance may not be sufficient to cover all losses. Our business involves significant operating hazards related to the generation of electricity, including hazards related to acquiring, transporting and unloading fuel, operating large pieces of rotating equipment, structural collapse, machinery failure, and delivering electricity to transmission and distribution systems. In addition, we are exposed to natural disaster risks and other hazards such as fire and explosions. These and other hazards can cause significant personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property, plant and equipment, disruption of communication systems and technology, contamination of, or damage to, the environment and suspension of operations. The occurrence of any one of these events may result in our being subject to various litigation matters, including regulatory and administrative proceedings, asserting claims for substantial damages, including for environmental cleanup costs, personal injury and property damage and fines and/or penalties. While we believe that the projects maintain an amount of insurance coverage that is adequate and similar to what would be maintained by a prudent owner/operator of similar facilities, and are subject to deductibles, limits and exclusions which are customary or reasonable given the cost of procuring insurance, current operating conditions and insurance market conditions, there can be no assurance that such insurance will continue to be offered on an economically feasible basis, nor that all events that could give rise to a loss or liability are insurable or insured, nor that the amounts of insurance will at all times be sufficient to cover each and every loss or claim that may occur involving our assets or operations of our projects. Any losses in excess of those covered by insurance, which may include a significant judgment against any project or project operator, the loss of a significant permit or other approval or the imposition of a significant fine or penalty, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects.. Our operations are subject to the provisions of various energy laws and regulations. Our business is subject to extensive Canadian and U.S. federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations. Compliance with the requirements under these various regimes may cause us to incur significant additional costs, and failure to comply with such requirements could result in the shutdown of the non - complying facility, the imposition of liens, fines and/or civil or criminal liability.. Generally, in the United States, our projects are subject to regulation by the FERC regarding the terms and conditions of wholesale service and rates, as well as by state regulators regarding the prudency of utilities entering into PPAs entered into by QF projects and the siting of the generation facilities. The majority of our generation is sold by QF projects under PPAs that required approval by state authorities.. The EP Act of 2005 also limited the requirement that electric utilities buy electricity from QFs in certain markets that have certain competitive characteristics, potentially making it more difficult for our current and future projects to negotiate favorable PPAs with these utilities.. If any project were to lose its status as a QF, it would lose its ability to make sales to utilities on favorable terms. Such project may no longer be entitled to exemption from provisions of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005 or from certain provisions of the Federal Power Act and state law and regulations. Loss of QF status could also trigger defaults under covenants to maintain that status in the PPAs and project - level debt agreements, and if not cured within allowed cure periods, could result in termination of agreements, penalties or acceleration of indebtedness under such agreements. In such event, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted.. Notwithstanding their status as QFs and EWGs, our facilities remain subject to numerous FERC regulations, including those relating to power marketer status, approval of mergers, acquisitions and investments relating to utilities, and mandatory reliability rules and regulations delegated to NERC. Any violation of these rules and regulations could subject us to significant fines and penalties and negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 31. Table of Contents. The EP Act of 2005 and other federal and state programs also may provide incentives for various forms of electric generation technologies, which may subsidize our competitors. The U.S. regulatory environment has undergone significant changes in the last several years due to state and federal policies affecting wholesale competition and the creation of incentives for the addition of large amounts of new renewable energy generation and, in some cases, transmission. These changes are ongoing and we cannot predict the future design of the wholesale power markets or the ultimate effect that the changing regulatory environment will have on our business. In addition, in some of these markets, interested parties have proposed material market design changes, including the elimination of a single clearing price mechanism as well as proposals to re - regulate the markets. Other proposals to re - regulate may be made and legislative or other attention to the electric power market restructuring process may delay or reverse the deregulation process. If competitive restructuring of the electric power markets is reversed, discontinued, or delayed, or new law or other future regulatory developments are introduced, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted.. Generally, in Canada, our projects are subject to energy regulation primarily by the relevant provincial authorities. In addition, our projects are subject to Canada's corporate, commercial and other laws of general application to businesses. Our projects require licenses, permits and approvals which can be in addition to any required environmental permits. No assurance can be provided that we will be able to obtain, comply with and renew, as required, all necessary licenses, permits and approvals for these facilities. If we cannot comply with and renew as required all applicable licenses, permits and approvals, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. The introductions of new laws, or other future regulatory developments, may have a material adverse impact on our business, operations or financial condition.. Risks with respect to the two Canadian provinces where we currently have projects are addressed further below.. British Columbia. The Government of British Columbia has a number of specific statutes and regulations that govern the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity within British Columbia. Our projects in that province are subject to these laws. These statutes can be changed by act of the provincial legislature and the regulations may be changed by the provincial cabinet. Such changes could have a material effect on our projects.. The Utilities Commission Act governs the BCUC, which is responsible for the regulation of British Columbia's public energy utilities, which include publicly owned and investor - owned utilities (i.e., independent power producers). All contracts for electricity supply, including those between independent power producers and BC Hydro, must be filed with and approved by the BCUC as being \"in the public interest.\" The BCUC may hold a hearing in this regard. Furthermore, the BCUC may make rules governing conditions to be contained in agreements entered into by public utilities for electricity. Consequently, power procurement is controlled by the BCUC and, as a result, our potential contracts with BC Hydro may be subject to terms that adversely affect us.. The Clean Energy Act sets out British Columbia's energy objectives, one of which is the generation of at least 93% of the electricity in British Columbia from clean or renewable resources. BC Hydro is required to submit for review and approval every five years to the Government of British Columbia resource plans outlining how it will meet these objectives. BC Hydro is generally required to acquire all new power (beyond what it already generates from existing BC Hydro plants) from independent power producers. Two of our three British Columbia projects currently sell all of their electricity to BC Hydro, and the third project sells substantially all of its electricity to BC Hydro. Therefore, changes to BC Hydro's energy procurement policies and financial difficulties of or regulatory intervention in respect of BC Hydro and/or the province's energy objectives could impact the market for electricity generated by our British Columbia projects, although BC Hydro is currently limited by regulation to undertaking efficiency improvements at its existing facilities and undertaking development of new generation facilities/projects only with BCUC approval. There is a risk that the regulatory regime could adversely affect the amount of power that BC Hydro purchases from our projects and. 32. Table of Contents. the competitive environment or the price at which BC Hydro is willing to purchase power from our British Columbia projects.. Ontario. The government of Ontario has a number of specific statutes and regulations that govern our projects in that province. The statutes can be changed by act of the provincial legislature and the regulations may be changed by the provincial cabinet. Such changes could have a material effect on our projects.. In Ontario, the OEB is an administrative tribunal with authority to grant or renew, and set the terms for, licenses with respect to electricity generation facilities, including our projects. No person is permitted to own or operate a large or medium - scale electricity generation facility in Ontario without a license from the OEB. Although all of our Ontario projects are currently licensed, the OEB has the authority to effectively modify the licenses by adopting \"codes\" that are deemed to form part of the licenses. Furthermore, any violations of the license or other irregularities in the relationship with the OEB can result in fines.. Although the OEB provides reports to the Ontario Minister of Energy, it generally operates independently from the government. However, the Minister may issue policy directives (with Cabinet approval) concerning general policy and the objectives to be pursued by the OEB, and the OEB is required to implement such policy directives. Thus, the OEB's regulation of our projects is subject to potential political interference, to a degree.. A number of other regulators and quasi - governmental entities play a role, including the IESO, Hydro One, the ESA and OEFC. All these agencies may affect our projects.. Noncompliance with federal reliability standards may subject us and our projects to penalties. Many of our operations are subject to the regulations of NERC, a self - regulatory non - governmental organization which has statutory responsibility to regulate bulk power system users and generation and transmission owners and operators. NERC groups the users, owners, and operators of the bulk power system into 17 categories, known as functional entities - e.g., Generator Owner, Generator Operator, Purchasing - Selling Entity, etc. - according to the tasks they perform. The NERC Compliance Registry lists the entities responsible for complying with federal mandatory reliability standards and the FERC, NERC, or a regional reliability organization may assess penalties against any responsible entity found to be in noncompliance. Violations may be discovered or identified through self - certification, compliance audits, spot checking, self - reporting, compliance investigations by NERC (or a regional reliability organization) and the FERC, periodic data submissions, exception reporting, and complaints. The penalty that could be imposed for violating the requirements of the standards is a function of the Violation Risk Factor. Penalties for the most severe violations can reach as high as $1 million per violation, per day, and our projects could be exposed to these penalties if violations occur, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our projects are subject to significant environmental and other regulations. Our projects are subject to numerous and significant federal, state, provincial and local laws, including statutes, regulations, by - laws, guidelines, policies, directives and other requirements governing or relating to, among other things: air emissions; discharges into water; ash disposal; the storage, handling, use, transportation and distribution of dangerous goods and hazardous, residual and other regulated materials, such as chemicals; the prevention of releases of hazardous materials into the environment; the prevention, presence and remediation of hazardous materials in soil and groundwater, both on and off site; land use and zoning matters; and workers' health and safety matters. Our facilities could experience incidents, malfunctions or other unplanned events that could result in spills or emissions in excess of permitted levels and result in personal injury, penalties and property damage. As such, the operation of our projects carries an inherent risk of environmental, health and safety liabilities (including potential civil actions, compliance or remediation orders, fines and other penalties), and may result in the projects being involved from time to time in administrative and judicial proceedings relating to such matters. We have implemented environmental, health and safety management programs designed to regularly improve environmental, health and safety performance, but there is no guarantee that such. 33. Table of Contents. programs will fully and effectively eliminate the inherent risk of environmental, health and safety liabilities related to the operation of our projects.. Environmental laws and regulations have generally become more stringent over time, and this trend may continue. In the United States, the Clean Air Act and related regulations and programs of the Environmental Protection Agency extensively regulate the air emissions of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, mercury and other compounds by power plants. In July 2011, the EPA issued its final Cross-State Air Pollution Rule (\"CSAPR\"), which replaces its prior Clean Air Interstate Rule and requires 27 states and the District of Columbia to curb emissions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides from power plants through participation in a cap and trade system or more aggressive state-by-state emissions limits. In November 2014, the EPA issued a ministerial rule setting a schedule for implementation of the CSAPR beginning in 2015, and in September 2016, the EPA issued the CSAPR Update Rule, intended to implement the 2008 ozone national air quality standards by requiring further reductions in nitrogen oxides in 2017 in 23 states subject to CSAPR during the summertime ozone season. Other more stringent EPA air emission regulations being implemented include the more stringent national ambient air quality standards for sulfur dioxide, issued in June 2010; for fine particulate matter, issued in December 2012; and for ozone, issued in October 2015. In the case of the ozone standard, however, EPA has extended the implementation deadline, the standard is subject to potential legislative modification and judicial challenge that is stayed while the Trump administration reconsiders the standard. Additionally, the EPA's mercury and air toxics emissions standards for power plants (\"MATS\"), first issued in December 2011, underwent court-mandated reconsideration and revision in 2015 and 2016 and are beginning to go into effect. Judicial challenges to the MATS regulation are in abeyance while the Trump administration decides whether it should be \"maintained, modified or otherwise reconsidered.\" Meeting these new standards, when implemented, may have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In December 2014, the EPA issued its final regulations governing disposal of coal ash in landfills and impoundments. The final rule affirmed the historic treatment of coal ash as non - hazardous solid waste but establishes new requirements governing structural integrity, groundwater protection, operating criteria, recordkeeping and reporting, and closure for such landfills and impoundments. We are currently assessing the increased compliance obligations and associated costs to our 40% owned coal - fired facility.. Similar increasingly stringent environmental regulations also apply to our projects in British Columbia and Ontario.. Significant costs may be incurred for either capital expenditures or the purchase of allowances under any or all of these programs to keep the projects compliant with environmental laws and regulations. Some of our projects' PPAs do not allow for the pass-through of emissions allowance or emission reduction capital expenditure costs. If it is not economical to make those expenditures, it may be necessary to retire or mothball facilities, or restrict or modify our operations to comply with more stringent standards.. Our projects have obtained environmental permits and other approvals that are required for their operations. Compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations, permits and approvals and material future changes to them could materially impact our businesses. Although we believe the operations of the projects are currently in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, licenses, permits and other authorizations required for the operation of the projects, and although there are environmental monitoring and reporting systems in place with respect to all the projects, there is no guarantee that more stringent laws will not be imposed, that there will not be more stringent enforcement of applicable laws or that such systems may not fail, which may result in material expenditures. Failure by the projects to comply with any environmental, health or safety requirements, or increases in the cost of such compliance, including as a result of unanticipated liabilities or expenditures for investigation, assessment, remediation or prevention, could result in additional expense, capital expenditures, restrictions and delays in the projects' activities, the extent of which cannot be predicted and which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 34. Table of Contents. If additional regulatory requirements are imposed on energy companies mandating limitations on greenhouse gas emissions or requiring efficiency improvements, such requirements may result in compliance costs that alone or in combination could make some of our projects uneconomical to maintain or operate. The EPA, other regulatory agencies, environmental advocacy groups and other organizations are focusing considerable attention on greenhouse gas emissions from power generation facilities and their potential role in climate change. See \"Item 1. Business - Industry Regulation - Carbon Emissions.\". There are also potential impacts on our natural gas businesses as greenhouse gas legislation or regulations may require greenhouse gas emission reductions from the natural gas sector and could affect demand for natural gas. Additionally, greenhouse gas requirements could result in increased demand for energy conservation and renewable products, as well as increase competition surrounding such innovation. Additionally, our reputation could be damaged due to public perception surrounding greenhouse gas emissions at our power generation projects. Any such negative public perception could ultimately result in a decreased demand for electric power generation or distribution. Several regions of the United States and Canada have moved forward with greenhouse gas emission regulation.. Concerning our projects in British Columbia, regulatory restrictions stemming from the GGIRTA and the GGRCTA, and financial commitments arising in connection with the requirements under the CTA, could affect our ability to operate our projects in British Columbia and affect our profitability. Concerning our projects in Ontario, the Ontario Cap and Trade Act and the Cap and Trade Program, from the beginning of 2017, increased the cost of generating electricity using natural gas and the price of the electricity produced by our natural gas-powered projects in the Province. In addition, on December 15, 2016, the IESO entered into an electricity trade agreement with Hydro- Qubec under which the IESO will purchase a total of 14 terawatt hours (TWh) of electricity from Hydro-Qubec over a seven-year period from 2017 to 2023. The News Release issued by the Government of Ontario regarding this agreement stated that \"Ontario will reduce the cost to its consumers by $70 million compared to its previous plan by importing 2 TWh of hydroelectric power each year from Qubec to replace the use of natural gas.\" As stated above, we ceased producing electricity using natural gas in Ontario at the end of 2017 and anticipate that the increasing carbon price and other initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas  emissions associated with the generation of electricity in the Province could affect our ability to operate our projects in Ontario and affect our profitability, but note that there will be a provincial election in Ontario in 2018 and that the future of the current cap and trade system for GHG emissions is now uncertain.. All of our subject generating facilities have complied on a timely basis with the new EPA and Ontario greenhouse gas reporting requirements. Compliance with greenhouse gas emission reduction requirements may require increasing the energy efficiency of equipment at our natural gas projects, purchase of allowances and/or offsets, fuel switching, and/or retirement of high - emitting projects and potential replacement with lower emitting projects. The cost of compliance with greenhouse gas emission legislation and/or regulation is subject to significant uncertainties due to the outcome of several interrelated assumptions and variables, including timing of the implementation of rules, required levels of reductions, allocation requirements of the new rules, the maturation and commercialization of carbon capture and storage technology, the selected compliance alternatives and in the United States the actions taken by the Trump Administration to revoke Obama era climate regulations. We cannot estimate the aggregate effect of such requirements on our business, results of operations, financial condition or our customers. However, such expenditures, if material, could make our generation facilities uneconomical to operate, result in the impairment of assets, or otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Impairment of goodwill, long - lived assets or equity method investments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. As of December 31, 2017, we had $21.3 million of goodwill, which represented approximately 1.8% of our total assets on our consolidated balance sheets. Goodwill is not amortized, but is evaluated for impairment at least annually or more frequently if an event or change in circumstance occurs that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. We could be required to, and have in the past, evaluated the potential impairment of goodwill outside of the required annual evaluation process if we experience situations, including but not limited to, sustained declines in market capitalization, deterioration in general economic conditions or our operating or regulatory environment, increased competitive environment, an increase in fuel costs (particularly when we are unable to. 35. Table of Contents. pass-through the impact to customers), significant changes in forecasted market prices for power, negative or declining cash flows, loss of a key contract or customer (particularly when we are unable to replace it on equally favorable terms), our inability to renew certain of our PPAs following their expiration or termination (for a description of the status of these agreements and related renegotiations, see Item 1A. Risk Factors - The expiration or termination of our PPAs could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operation and financial condition), divestiture of a significant component of our business or adverse actions or assessments by a regulator. These types of events and the resulting analyses could result in goodwill impairment expense, which could substantially affect our results of operations for those periods. Additionally, goodwill may be impaired if any acquisitions we make do not perform as expected. See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 - K.. Long - lived assets are initially recorded at acquisition cost and are amortized or depreciated over their estimated useful lives. Long - lived assets are evaluated for impairment only when impairment indicators are present whereas goodwill is evaluated for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if potential impairment indicators are present. Otherwise, the recoverability assessment of long - lived assets is similar to the potential impairment evaluation of goodwill particularly as it relates to the identification of potential impairment indicators, and making estimates and assumptions to determine fair value, as described above.. We have recorded $187.2 million, $85.9 million and $127.8 million of goodwill, long-lived asset and equity method investment impairments for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.. Failure to fully comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could negatively affect our business, market confidence in our reported financial information, and the price of our common stock.. <U+FEFF>. We continue to document, test, and monitor our internal controls over financial reporting in order to satisfy all of the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; however, we cannot be assured that our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal controls over financial reporting will prove to be completely adequate in the future. Failure to fully comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could negatively affect our business, market confidence in our reported financial information, and the price of our common stock.. Increasing competition could adversely affect our performance and the performance of our projects. The power generation industry is characterized by intense competition and our projects encounter competition from utilities, industrial companies and other independent power producers, in particular with respect to uncontracted output. In recent years, there has been increasing competition among generators for PPAs, and this has contributed to a reduction in electricity prices in certain markets where supply has surpassed demand plus appropriate reserve margins.. Further, changes and developments in technology, including fuel cells, microturbines, solar cells and other emerging technologies related to energy generation, distribution and consumption, may facilitate the entrance of new competitors, increase the supply of electricity, and reduce the cost of methods of producing power that we do not currently use or lower the price of or demand for energy. If these technologies became cost competitive, we could face increasing competition and the value of our generating facilities could be reduced.. In addition, we continue to confront significant competition for acquisition and investment opportunities and, to the extent that any opportunities are identified, we may be unable to effect acquisitions or investments on attractive terms, if at all. Increasing competition among participants in the power generation industry may adversely affect our performance and the performance of our projects. Further, a payout of a significant portion of our cash flow to service our debt may result in us not retaining a sufficient amount of cash to finance acquisition or investment opportunities and make other capital and operating expenditures. See \" - Risk Related to Our Structure - We may not generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations or implement our business plan, including financing internal or external growth opportunities.\". 36. Table of Contents. We have limited control over management decisions at certain projects. Four of our projects are not wholly - owned by us or we have contracted for their operations and maintenance, and in some cases we have limited control over the operation of the projects. Although we generally prefer to acquire projects where we have control, we may make acquisitions in non - control situations to the extent that we consider it advantageous to do so and consistent with regulatory requirements and restrictions, including the Investment Company Act of 1940. Third - party operators operate four of our projects. As such, we must rely on the technical and management expertise of these third - party operators, although typically we negotiate to obtain positions on a management or operating committee if we do not own 100% of a project. To the extent that such third - party operators do not fulfill their obligations to manage the operations of the projects or are not effective in doing so, our cash flow may be adversely affected. The approval of third - party operators also may be required for us to receive distributions of funds from projects or to transfer our interest in projects. Our inability to control fully certain projects could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may face significant competition for acquisitions and may not be able to finance or otherwise pursue, execute or successfully integrate acquisitions or new business initiatives. To the extent identification of and pursuit of acquisition opportunities forms a part of our strategy, we may be unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates in the power industry in the future, and we may not be able to make acquisitions on an accretive basis or at all, or be sure that such acquisitions, if any, will be successfully integrated into our existing operations. In addition, a payout of a significant portion of our cash flow to service our debt obligations, may result in us not retaining a sufficient amount of cash to finance any acquisition or other growth opportunities, to the extent any such acquisition or other opportunities are available to us. As a result, we may have to forego such opportunities, even if they would otherwise be necessary or desirable, if we do not find alternative sources of financing for such opportunities to make cash available to us. In addition, even if we are able to find alternative sources of financing for such opportunities, we may be precluded from pursuing an otherwise attractive acquisition or investment if the projected short - term cash flow from the acquisition or investment is not adequate to service the capital raised to fund such acquisition or investment. This could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry, placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors.. Although electricity demand is expected to grow, creating the need for more generation, such growth is expected to occur at a slower rate. The U.S. power industry is continuing to undergo consolidation and may present attractive acquisition opportunities but we are likely to confront significant competition for those opportunities and, to the extent that any opportunities are identified, we may be unable to effect acquisitions or investments.. Any acquisition, investment or new business initiative may involve potential risks, including an increase in indebtedness, the inability to successfully integrate operations, the potential disruption of our ongoing business, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, inadequate return on capital and the possibility that we pay more than the acquired company or interest is worth. There may also be liabilities that we fail to discover, or are unable to discover, in our due diligence prior to the consummation of an acquisition or prior to launching an initiative or entering a market. We may not be indemnified for some or all of these liabilities in an acquisition transaction.. Our equity interests in certain projects may be subject to transfer restrictions. The partnership or other agreements governing some of the projects may limit a partner's ability to sell its interest. Specifically, these agreements may prohibit any sale, pledge, transfer, assignment or other conveyance of the interest in a project without the consent of the other partners. In some cases, other partners may have rights of first offer or rights of first refusal in the event of a proposed sale or transfer of our interest. These restrictions may limit or prevent us from managing our interests in these projects in the manner we see fit, and may have an adverse effect on our ability to sell our interests in these projects at the prices we desire. See \" - Risks Related to Our Structure - We cannot provide any assurance regarding the outcome or impact on our business of any potential options we are considering.\". 37. Table of Contents. Our projects are exposed to risks inherent in the use of derivative instruments. We and our projects may use derivative instruments, including futures, forwards, options and swaps, to manage commodity and financial market risks. These activities, though intended to mitigate price volatility, expose us to other risks. In the future, the project operators could recognize financial losses on these arrangements, including as a result of volatility in the market values of the underlying commodities, if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract or upon the failure or insolvency of a financial intermediary, exchange or clearinghouse used to enter, execute or clear the transactions. If actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources are not available, the valuation of these contracts would involve judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts.. Most of these contracts are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value recorded currently in the statement of operations, resulting in significant volatility in our income (loss) (as calculated in accordance with GAAP) that does not significantly affect current period cash flows or the underlying risk management purpose of the derivative instruments. As a result, we may be unable to accurately predict the impact that our risk management decisions may have on our quarterly and annual income (loss) (as calculated in accordance with GAAP).. If the values of these financial contracts change in a manner that we do not anticipate, or if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract, it could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We have executed natural gas swaps to reduce our risks to changes in the market price of natural gas, which is the fuel consumed at many of our projects. Due to decreases in natural gas prices, we have incurred losses on these natural gas swaps. We execute these swaps only for the purpose of managing risks and not for speculative trading.. We do not typically hedge the entire exposure of our operations against commodity price volatility. To the extent we do not hedge against commodity price volatility, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be improved or diminished based upon movement in commodity prices.. Certain employees are subject to collective bargaining. A number of our plant employees, at one plant in British Columbia and at four plants in Ontario, are subject to collective bargaining agreements. These agreements expire periodically and we may not be able to renew them without a labor disruption or without agreeing to significant increases in labor costs. Strikes, work stoppages or the inability to negotiate future collective bargaining agreements on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our Pension Plan may require additional future contributions. Certain of our employees in Canada are participants in a defined benefit pension plan that we sponsor. The additional amount of future contributions to our defined benefit plan will depend upon asset returns and a number of other factors and, as a result, the amounts we will be required to contribute in the future may vary. Cash contributions to the plan will reduce the cash available for our business.. Hostile cyber intrusions could severely impair our operations, lead to the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A cyber intrusion is considered to be any adverse event that threatens the confidentiality, integrity or availability of our information resources. More specifically, a cyber intrusion is an intentional attack or an unintentional event that can include gaining unauthorized access to systems to disrupt operations, corrupt data, steal confidential information, and impact our ability to make collections or otherwise impact our operations. We are dependent on various information technologies throughout our company and our projects to carry out multiple business activities. Further, the computer systems that run our facilities are not completely isolated from external networks. Parties that wish to disrupt the U.S. and/or Canadian bulk power system or our operations could view our computer systems, software or networks. 38. Table of Contents. as attractive targets for cyber attack. In addition, our business requires that we collect and maintain confidential employee and shareholder information, which is subject to the risk of electronic theft or loss.. A successful cyber attack, such as unauthorized access, malicious software or other violations on the systems that control generation and transmission at our projects could severely disrupt business operations, diminish competitive advantages through reputation damages and increase operational costs. The breach of certain business systems could affect our ability to correctly record, process and report financial information. A major cyber incident could result in significant expenses to investigate and repair security breaches or system damage and could lead to litigation, fines, other remedial action, heightened regulatory scrutiny and damage to our reputation. For these reasons, a significant cyber incident could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and/or the Canadian Corruption of Foreign Public Officials Act could subject us to, among other things, penalties and legal expenses that could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to anti - corruption laws and regulations including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\") and the Canadian Corruption of Foreign Public Officials Act (the \"CFPOA\"), which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business and/or other benefits. In addition, the FCPA imposes accounting standards and requirements on U.S. publicly traded corporations and their foreign affiliates, which are intended to prevent the diversion of corporate funds to the payment of bribes and other improper payments, and to prevent the establishment of \"off books\" slush funds from which improper payments can be made (similar provisions have been proposed to be added to the CFPOA). The Securities and Exchange Commission has increased its enforcement of the FCPA during the past several years. In recent years, enforcement of the CFPOA in Canada has also increased and can be attributed, in part, to the establishment of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police's International Anti - Corruption Unit in 2008. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure that we, our employees and other intermediaries comply with the FCPA and/or the CFPOA, there is no assurance that such policies or procedures will work effectively all of the time or protect us against liability under the FCPA and/or the CFPOA for actions taken by our employees and other intermediaries with respect to our business or any businesses that we may acquire. If we are not in compliance with the FCPA and/or the CFPOA, we may be subject to criminal penalties pursuant to the CFPOA and/or criminal and civil penalties and other remedial measures pursuant to the FCPA, including changes or enhancements to our procedures, policies and control, as well as potential personnel change and disciplinary actions, which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our success depends in part on our ability to retain, motivate and recruit executives and other key employees, and failure to do so could negatively affect us. Our success depends in part on our ability to retain, recruit and motivate key employees who have experience in our industry. Experienced employees in the power industry are in high demand and competition for their talents can be intense. Further, an aging work force in the power industry necessitates recruiting, retaining and developing the next generation of leadership. A failure to attract and retain executives and other key employees with specialized knowledge in power generation could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition because of the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacements. See \" - Risks Related to our Structure - Our recent management changes may impact our business plan.\""                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
