[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to the Company and its Banking Operations. We may experience increased delinquencies and credit losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations.. Like other lenders, we face the risk that our customers will not repay their loans.  A customer's failure to repay us is usually preceded by missed monthly payments.  In some instances, however, a customer may declare bankruptcy prior to missing payments, and, following a borrower filing bankruptcy, a lender's recovery of the credit extended is often limited.  Since our loans are secured by collateral, we may attempt to seize the collateral when and if customers default on their loans.  However, the value of the collateral may not equal the amount of the unpaid loan, and we may be unsuccessful in recovering the remaining balance from our customers.  Elevated levels of delinquencies and bankruptcies in our market area generally and among our customers specifically can be precursors of future charge-offs and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses.  Higher charge-off rates and an increase in our allowance for loan losses may hurt our overall financial performance if we are unable to increase revenue to compensate for these losses and may also increase our cost of funds.. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and we may be required to materially increase our allowance, which may adversely affect our capital, financial condition and results of operations.. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expenses that represents management's best estimate of probable credit losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans.  The allowance for loan losses and our methodology for calculating the allowance are fully described in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 under \"Allowance for Loan Losses,\" and in the \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Critical Accounting Policies-Allowance for Loan Losses\" section.  In general, an increase in the allowance for loan losses results in a decrease in net income, and possibly risk-based capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations.. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is established to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio.  The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks using existing qualitative and quantitative information, all of which may undergo material changes.  Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans, and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses.  In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of additional loan charge-offs, based on judgments that are different than those of management.  As we are consistently adjusting our loan portfolio and underwriting standards to reflect current market conditions, we can provide no assurance that our methodology will not change, which could result in a charge to earnings.. We continually reassess the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the sufficiency of our allowance for loan losses as part of the Bank's credit functions.  Any significant amount of additional non-performing assets, loan charge-offs, increases in the provision. 14. for loan losses or the continuation of aggressive charge-off policies or any inability by us to realize the full value of underlying collateral in the event of a loan default, will negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and the price of our securities.  Our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover future credit losses.. An economic downturn in the housing market, the homebuilding industry, and/or in our markets generally could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Our long-term success depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our primary market areas-Metropolitan Atlanta and the Interstate 75 corridor between Dalton, Georgia (approximately one hour north of Atlanta) and Jefferson City, Tennessee (approximately 30 minutes north of Knoxville, Tennessee).  If the communities in which the Bank operates do not grow, or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may not succeed.  An economic recession over a prolonged period or other economic problems in our market areas could have a material adverse impact on the quality of the loan portfolio and the demand for our products and services.  Future adverse changes in the economies in our market areas may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  Further, the banking industry in Tennessee and Georgia is affected by general economic conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment and other factors beyond our control.. Previously, the homebuilding and residential mortgage industry experienced a significant and sustained decline in demand for new homes and a decrease in the absorption of new and existing homes available for sale in various markets.  A recurrence of these trends could cause us to face increased delinquencies and non-performing assets as these builders and developers are forced to default on their loans with us.  If market conditions deteriorate, our non-performing assets may increase and we may need to take valuation adjustments on our loan portfolios and real estate owned.. We make and hold in our portfolio a number of commercial and industrial, commercial real estate, land acquisition and development, and construction loans.  We intend to continue originating these types of loans.  These loans involve credit risks that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We offer commercial and industrial and commercial real estate loans, and as of December 31, 2017, we had $1.56 billion in such loans outstanding, representing 493% of the Bank's total risk-based capital.  Commercial and industrial and commercial real estate loans present a greater risk of non - payment by a borrower than other types of loans.  They typically involve larger loan balances and are particularly sensitive to economic conditions.  Unlike residential mortgage loans, which generally are made on the basis of the borrowers' ability to make repayment from their employment and other income and which are secured by real property whose value tends to be more easily ascertainable, commercial loans typically are made on the basis of the borrowers' ability to make repayment from the cash flow of the related commercial venture.  If the cash flow from business operations is reduced, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired.  Due to the larger average size of a commercial loan in comparison to other loans such as residential loans, as well as the collateral which is generally less readily-marketable, losses incurred on a small number of commercial loans could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, commercial loan customers often have the ability to fund current interest payments through additional borrowings, and as a result the actual credit risk associated with these customers may be worse than anticipated.  In addition, some of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us, which means that an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to significantly greater risk of loss.  In the case of commercial and industrial loans, collateral often consists of accounts receivable, inventory and equipment, which may not yield substantial recovery of principal losses incurred, and is susceptible to deterioration or other loss in advance of liquidation of such collateral.  These types of loans, however, have historically driven the growth in our loan portfolio and we intend to continue our lending efforts for commercial and industrial products.. We offer land acquisition and development and construction loans for builders and developers, and as of December 31, 2017, we had $115 million in such loans outstanding, representing 37% of the Bank's total risk-based capital.  Similar to commercial and industrial and commercial real estate loans, land acquisition and development and construction loans are more risky than other types of loans.  The primary credit risks associated with land acquisition and development and construction lending are underwriting and project risks.  Project risks include cost overruns, borrower credit risk, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk, and environmental and other hazard risks.  Market risks are risks associated with the sale of the completed residential units.  They include affordability risk, which means the risk that borrowers cannot obtain affordable financing, product design risk, and risks posed by competing projects.. Losses in our commercial and industrial, commercial real estate, land acquisition and development, or construction loan portfolio could exceed our reserves, which would adversely impact our earnings.  Non-performing loans in any one of these categories could increase during 2018, and these non-performing loans could result in a material level of charge-offs, either individually or collectively, which would negatively impact our capital and earnings.. 15. We have significantly increased the percentage of commercial and industrial loans in our loan portfolio and intend to continue originating these types of loans.  As a result, we have concentrated credit exposure in commercial and industrial loans that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 32% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial and industrial loans. These types of loans are typically larger than other types of loans and involve a higher risk of nonpayment or late payment than other types of loans. These loans may lack standardized terms and may include a balloon payment feature. The ability of a borrower to make or refinance a balloon payment may be affected by a number of factors, including the financial condition of the borrower, prevailing economic conditions and prevailing interest rates. Repayment of these loans is generally more dependent on the economy and the successful operation of a business. Because of the risks associated with commercial loans, we may experience higher rates of default than if the portfolio were more heavily weighted toward residential mortgage loans. Higher rates of default could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our credit risk and credit losses can increase if our loans or investments are concentrated among borrowers engaged in the same or similar activities, industries, geographies, or to borrowers or issuers who, as a group, may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions. The deterioration of an individually large exposure, for example due to a natural disaster, act of terrorism, severe weather event, or economic event, could lead to additional loan loss provisions and/or charge-offs, or credit impairment of our investments, and subsequently have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. If the value of real estate in our core markets declines, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. In addition to considering the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of borrowers, we often secure loans with real estate collateral.  At December 31, 2017, approximately 64% of the Bank's loans had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral.  The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower but may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended.  If the value of real estate in our core markets were to decline further, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized.  As a result, if we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected.. Our use of appraisals in deciding whether to make a loan on or secured by real property or how to value such loan in the future may not accurately describe the net value of the real property collateral that we can realize.. In considering whether to make a loan secured by real property, we generally require an appraisal of the property.  However, an appraisal is only an estimate of the value of the property at the time the appraisal is made, and, as real estate values in our market area have experienced changes in value in relatively short periods of time, this estimate might not accurately describe the net value of the real property collateral after the loan has been closed.  If the appraisal does not reflect the amount that may be obtained upon any sale or foreclosure of the property, we may not realize an amount equal to the indebtedness secured by the property.  The valuation of the property may negatively impact the continuing value of such loan and could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties.. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information.  We also rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors.  For example, in deciding whether to extend credit to customers, we may assume that a customer's audited financial statements conform to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (\"GAAP\"), and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer.  Our earnings and our financial condition could be negatively impacted to the extent the information furnished to us by and on behalf of borrowers is not correct or complete or is noncompliant with GAAP.. We will realize additional future losses if the proceeds we receive upon liquidation of non - performing assets are less than the fair value of such assets.. We have a strategy to manage our non-performing assets aggressively, a portion of which may not be currently identified.  Non-performing assets are recorded on our financial statements at fair value, as required under GAAP, unless these assets have been specifically identified for liquidation, in which case they are recorded at the lower of cost or estimated net realizable value.  In. 16. current market conditions, we are likely to realize additional future losses if the proceeds we receive upon dispositions of non-performing assets are less than the recorded fair value of such assets.. Changes in the policies of monetary authorities and other government action could materially adversely affect our profitability.. The Bank's results of operations are affected by policies of monetary authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve.  The instruments of monetary policy employed by the Federal Reserve include open market operations in U.S. government securities, changes in the discount rate or the federal funds rate on bank borrowings and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits.  In view of changing conditions in the national economy and in the money markets, particularly in light of the continuing threat of terrorist attacks and the current military operations and other instances of unrest in the Middle East, and the economic and political situations in certain parts of the world, we cannot predict with certainty possible future changes in interest rates, deposit levels, loan demand or our business and earnings.  Furthermore, the actions of the U.S. government and other governments in responding to such terrorist attacks or events in these or other regions may result in currency fluctuations, exchange controls, market disruption and other adverse effects.. We are subject to risks in the event of certain borrower defaults, which could have an adverse impact on our liquidity position and results of operations.. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of certain borrower defaults, which could adversely affect our liquidity position, results of operations, and financial condition.  When we sell mortgage loans, we are required to make customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which the loans were originated.  In the event of a breach of any of the representations and warranties related to a loan sold, we could be liable for damages to the investor up to and including a \"make whole\" demand that involves, at the investor's option, either reimbursing the investor for actual losses incurred on the loan or repurchasing the loan in full.  Our maximum exposure to credit loss in the event of a make whole loan repurchase claim would be the unpaid principal balance of the loan to be repurchased along with any premium paid by the investor when the loan was purchased and other collection cost reimbursements.  If repurchase demands increase, our liquidity position, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected.. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management's attention and affect our ability to attract and retain executive management and qualified board members.. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the \"Sarbanes-Oxley Act\"), the Dodd-Frank Act, and other applicable securities rules and regulations.  Compliance with these rules and regulations increases our legal and financial compliance costs, makes some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and increases demand on our systems and resources.  The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and operating results.  The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting.  In order to maintain and, if required, improve our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting to meet this standard, significant resources and management oversight may be required.  As a result, management's attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could adversely affect our business and operating results.  We may need to hire more employees in the future or engage outside consultants, which will increase our costs and expenses.. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming.  These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies.  This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices.  We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management's time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities.  If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to their application and practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be adversely affected.. The fact that we are a public company has increased the costs of our director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage in the future.  These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit and compensation committees, and qualified executive officers.. 17. We may need to rely on the financial markets to provide needed capital.. Our common stock is listed and traded on The NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol \"ACBI\".  Although we anticipate that our capital resources will be adequate for the foreseeable future to meet our capital requirements, at times we may depend on the liquidity of the Nasdaq market to raise equity capital.  If the market should fail to operate, or if conditions in the capital markets are adverse, we may be constrained in raising capital.  Downgrades in the opinions of the analysts that follow us may cause our stock price to fall and significantly limit our ability to access the markets for additional capital requirements.  Should these risks materialize, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth or acquisition may be limited.. Negative publicity about financial institutions, generally, or about our Company or the Bank, specifically, could damage our reputation and adversely impact our liquidity, business operations or financial results.. Reputation risk, or the risk to our business from negative publicity, is inherent in our business.  Negative publicity can result from the actual or alleged conduct of financial institutions, generally, or our Company or the Bank, specifically, in any number of activities, including leasing and lending practices, corporate governance, and actions taken by government regulators in response to those activities.  Negative publicity can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action, any of which could negatively affect our liquidity, business operations or financial results.. Increases in our expenses and other costs could adversely affect our financial results.. Our expenses and other costs, such as operating expenses and hiring new employees, directly affect our earnings results.  In light of the extremely competitive environment in which we operate, and because the size and scale of many of our competitors provides them with increased operational efficiencies, it is important that we are able to successfully manage such expenses.  We are aggressively managing our expenses in the current economic environment, but as our business develops, changes or expands, and as we hire additional personnel, additional expenses can arise.  Other factors that can affect the amount of our expenses include legal and administrative cases and proceedings, which can be expensive to pursue or defend.  In addition, changes in accounting policies can significantly affect how we calculate expenses and earnings.. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability.. Our earnings are significantly dependent on our net interest income, as we realize income primarily from the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings.  We may be unable to predict future fluctuations in market interest rates, which are affected by many factors, including inflation, economic growth, employment rates, fiscal and monetary policy and disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets.  Our net interest income is affected not only by the level and direction of interest rates, but also by the shape of the yield curve and relationships between interest sensitive instruments and key interest driver rates, as well as balance sheet growth, customer loan and deposit preferences and the timing of changes in these variables.  Our net interest income also may decline based on our exposure to a difference in short-term and long-term interest rates.  A relatively high cost for securing deposits, combined with lower interest rates that can be charged on customer loans, will place downward pressure on our net interest income.  Our asset - liability management strategy may not be effective in preventing changes in interest rates from having a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Certain changes in interest rates, inflation, deflation or the financial markets could affect demand for our products and our results of operations and cash flows.. Loan originations, and potentially loan revenues, could be materially adversely impacted by sharply rising interest rates.  Conversely, sharply falling rates could increase prepayments within our securities portfolio lowering interest earnings from those investments.  An unanticipated increase in inflation could cause our operating costs related to salaries and benefits, technology and supplies to increase at a faster pace than revenues.. The fair market value of our securities portfolio and the investment income from these securities also fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions.  In addition, actual net investment income and/or cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, may differ from those anticipated at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations.. Interest rate increases often result in larger payment requirements for our borrowers, which increase the potential for default and could result in a decrease in the demand for loans. At the same time, the marketability of the property securing a loan may be adversely affected by any reduced demand resulting from higher interest rates. In a declining interest rate environment, there may be an increase in prepayments on loans as borrowers refinance their loans at lower rates. In addition, in a low interest rate. 18. environment, loan customers often pursue long - term fixed rate credits, which could adversely affect our earnings and net interest margin if rates increase. Changes in interest rates also can affect the value of our loans and other assets. An increase in interest rates that adversely affects the ability of borrowers to pay the principal or interest on loans may lead to increases in nonperforming assets, charge-offs and delinquencies, further increases to the allowance for loan losses, and a reduction of income recognized, among others, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.. Our strategic initiatives may not be implemented successfully.  We may not realize the benefits of our strategic initiatives in the anticipated timeline or at all, and the implementation of our strategy may result in costs or loss of revenue that could adversely impact our results of operations.. Implementation of our strategy may involve organic growth initiatives, hiring groups of bankers, acquiring other financial institutions, branch offices or selected assets or deposits of financial institutions, reducing investment in or partially or completely exiting a line of business, or consolidating, closing or selling branch offices.  Strategic transactions and other initiatives involved additional expense and also put a strain on our management, financial, operational and technical resources.  In addition, while we endeavor to engage in strategic transactions and initiatives that will be beneficial to our operations, such initiatives involve a number of risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including:. • there may be a substantial lag time between the time we incur the expenses associated with implementing strategic initiatives and the time when we generate sufficient assets, deposits and earnings to support the costs of such expansion or realize the anticipated benefits of the initiative;. • the use of inaccurate estimates and judgments in evaluating credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to any target institution or assets;. • the diligence we conduct with respect to any expansion opportunity may not be sufficient to properly evaluate the prospects of any such opportunity;. • diluting our existing shareholders in an acquisition;. • the time associated with negotiating a transaction or working on strategic plans, resulting in management's attention being diverted from our existing business;. • the time and expense of obtaining required regulatory approvals and complying with the terms and conditions of regulatory approvals, which may require us to dispose of acquired branches, sell certain segments of acquired loan portfolios, or impose other restrictions on our operations;. • negotiations may be terminated by either party for a variety of reasons resulting in sunk costs associated with the particular transaction;. • the time and expense of integrating new operations and personnel;. • our lack of market expertise in new geographic markets that we may enter could negatively impact our ability to successfully grow our operations there, or cause us to incur unforeseen expenses in the growth of our operations;. • the possible loss of key employees and customers of an acquired institution as a result of expansion into a new market, elimination or consolidation of branches, or an acquisition that is poorly conceived and executed;. • the loss of customer deposits in connection with a branch closure, sale or consolidation eliminates a relatively inexpensive source of capital that we may not be able to replace without incurring additional expense;. • the loss of loan customers in connection with a branch closure, sale or consolidation could result in a decrease in interest income that we may not be able to replace;. • the elimination of a line of business could result in a greater than anticipated losses of customers, including customers who turn to one of our competitors to replace the products or services we no longer offer as well as traditional banking services; and. • we could experience reputational damage associated with strategic initiatives, particularly closing or selling offices or exiting lines of business.. There is no assurance that we will successfully implement our strategic plan or meet our goals.  The occurrence of any of the foregoing risks, or other risks not mentioned above, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition.. Liquidity is essential to our business.  An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity.  Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general.  Factors that could negatively impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of an economic downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated, adverse regulatory action against us, or our inability to attract and retain deposits.  Our ability to borrow could be impaired by factors that are not specific to us or our. 19. region, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the unstable credit markets.. Our use of brokered deposits may be limited or discouraged by bank regulators, which could adversely affect our liquidity.. We use brokered deposits to fund a portion of our operations.  Our liquidity and our funding costs may be negatively affected if this funding source experiences reduced availability due to regulatory restrictions, loss of investor confidence or a move to other investments or as a result of increased Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (\"FDIC\") insurance costs for these deposits.  As of December 31, 2017, 5% of the Bank's total deposits were composed of brokered deposits.  These deposits are a mix between short-term brokered certificates of deposit and brokered money market accounts.  Depositors that invest in brokered deposits are generally interest rate sensitive and well-informed about alternative markets and investments.  Consequently, these types of deposits may not provide the same stability to our deposit base or provide the same enterprise value as traditional local retail deposit relationships.  Brokered deposits are also considered wholesale funding by bank regulators and a dependence on wholesale funding may warrant increased regulatory review and higher FDIC insurance costs.  Banks that are no longer \"well capitalized\" for bank regulatory purposes are limited in accepting or renewing brokered deposits.  In addition, our costs of funds and profitability are likely to be adversely affected to the extent we have to rely upon higher cost borrowings from other institutional investors or brokers to fund loan demand and origination needs.. We face strong competition from larger, more established competitors that may inhibit our ability to compete and expose us to greater lending risks.. The banking business is highly competitive, and we experience strong competition from many other financial institutions.  We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other financial institutions, which operate in our primary market areas and elsewhere.. We compete with these institutions in attracting deposits, making loans and providing private banking services.  In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents.  Many of our competitors are well-established and much larger financial institutions.  Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures.  We may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size and relative lack of geographic diversification.. Our relatively small geographic footprint limits our ability to diversify macro-economic risk.  We lend primarily to privately held small and mid-sized businesses, not for profit institutions, institutional caliber commercial real estate developers and investors, and individuals in the Metropolitan Atlanta and Eastern Tennessee areas which may expose us to greater lending risks than those of banks lending to larger, better capitalized businesses with longer operating histories.  As a community bank, we are less able to spread the risk of unfavorable local economic conditions than larger or more regional banks.  Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas--Metropolitan Atlanta and the Interstate 75 corridor between Dalton, Georgia (approximately one hour north of Atlanta) and Jefferson City, Tennessee (approximately 30 minutes north of Knoxville, Tennessee)--if they do occur.. Unpredictable economic conditions or a natural disaster in any of our market areas may have a material adverse effect on our financial performance.. Substantially all of our borrowers and depositors are individuals and businesses located and doing business in our markets. Therefore, our success will depend on the general economic conditions in these areas, and more particularly in Metropolitan Atlanta and the Interstate 75 corridor between Dalton, Georgia (approximately one hour north of Atlanta) and Jefferson City, Tennessee (approximately 30 minutes north of Knoxville, Tennessee). Unlike with many of our larger competitors, the majority of our borrowers are located and doing business in such local markets. As a result, our operations and profitability may be more adversely affected by a local economic downturn or natural disaster in such markets than those of larger, more geographically diverse competitors. Accordingly, any regional or local economic downturn, or natural or man-made disaster, that affects any of the markets in which we operate, including existing or prospective property or borrowers in such markets may affect us and our profitability more significantly and more adversely than our more geographically diversified competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. The soundness of other financial institutions with which we do business could adversely affect us.. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions.  Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other. 20. relationships.  We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, including counterparties in the financial industry, such as commercial banks and other institutional clients.  As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions.  Many of these transactions will expose us to credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty or client.  In addition, this credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral we hold cannot be realized upon liquidation or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due to us.  There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. The costs and effects of litigation, investigations or similar matters, or adverse facts and developments related thereto, could materially affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. We may be involved from time to time in a variety of litigation, investigations or similar matters arising out of our business.  Our insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against it and indemnification rights to which we are entitled may not be honored, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation.  Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation or investigation significantly exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, premiums for insurance covering the financial and banking sectors are rising.  We may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, nor may we be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms or at historic rates, if at all.. We are subject to various taxing jurisdictions where we conduct business.  We assess the appropriate tax treatment of transactions and filing positions after considering statutes, regulations, judicial precedent and other pertinent information and maintain tax accruals consistent with our evaluation.  This evaluation incorporates assumptions and estimates that involve a high degree of judgment and subjectivity.  Changes in the results of these evaluations could have a material impact on our operating results.. Environmental liability associated with lending activities could result in losses.. In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing our loans.  If hazardous substances are discovered on any of these properties, we may be liable to governmental entities or third parties for the costs of remediation of the hazard, as well as for personal injury and property damage.  Many environmental laws impose liability regardless of whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the contamination.  In addition, if we arrange for the disposal of hazardous or toxic substances at another site, we may be liable for the costs of cleaning up and removing those substances from the site, even if we neither own nor operate the disposal site.  Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially limit the use of properties that we acquire through foreclosure, reduce their value or limit our ability to sell them in the event of a default on the loans they secure.  In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability.  Our loan policies requiring certain due diligence of high risk industries and properties may not be effective in reducing the risks of environmental liability resulting from non-performing loan and/or foreclosed property.. We may not be able to retain, attract and motivate qualified individuals.. Our success depends on our ability to retain, attract and motivate qualified individuals in key positions throughout the organization.  Competition for qualified individuals in most activities in which we are engaged can be intense, and we may not be able to hire or retain the people we want and/or need.  Although we have entered into employment agreements with certain key employees, and have incentive compensation plans aimed, in part, at long-term employee retention, the unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could still occur, and such events may have a material adverse impact on our business because of the loss of the employee's skills, knowledge of our market, and years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel.  If we are unable to retain, attract and motivate qualified individuals in key positions, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.. A failure in or breach of our operational or security systems, or those of our third party service providers, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could disrupt our business, result in unintentional disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, or damage our reputation.. As a financial institution, our operations rely heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information on our computer systems and networks.  Any failure, interruption or breach in security or operational integrity of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our Internet banking system, treasury management products, check and document imaging, remote deposit capture systems, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems.. 21. There has been an increase in the number and sophistication of criminal cyber-security attacks against companies where customer and other sensitive information has been compromised. The financial services industry has experienced an increase in the number and severity of cyber-attacks, including efforts to hack or breach security measures in order to access, obtain or misuse information, misappropriate financial assets, corrupt or destroy data, disrupt operations, or install viruses, \"ransomware\" or other malware. Although we devote significant resources to maintaining the integrity of our systems, we are not able to anticipate or implement effective preventive measures against all security breaches of these types, especially because the techniques used change frequently and because attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources. The protective policies and procedures we currently have in place or which we implement in the future may not be sufficient as the nature and sophistication of such threats continue to evolve.  We may be required to expend significant additional resources in the future to modify and enhance our protective measures.. In addition, our business operations rely on third party vendors to provide services such as exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries, data processing, recording and monitoring transactions, online banking interfaces and services, Internet connections and network access.  Some of these parties have in the past been the target of security breaches and cyber-attacks, and because the transactions involve third parties and environments such as the point of sale that we do not control or secure, future security breaches or cyber-attacks affecting any of these third parties could impact us through no fault of our own, and in some cases we may have exposure and suffer losses for breaches or attacks relating to them. Such parties could also be the source of an attack on, or breach of, our operational systems.  The cyber-security, information and operational risks that our third party service providers face may be different than the risks we face, and we do not directly control any of such service providers' information security operations, including the efforts that they may take to mitigate risks or the level of cyber/privacy liability insurance that they may carry.  Any problems caused or experienced by these third parties, including cyber-attacks and security breaches, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise conduct our business.  Furthermore, our vendors could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints.  Replacing these third party vendors could also create significant delay and expense.. Any failures, interruptions or security breaches in our information systems, or the systems operated by our third party service providers, could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, impair our ability to provide our services or maintain availability of our systems to customers, result in a violation of privacy or other laws, subject us to regulatory enforcement or other actions, or expose us to remediation costs, increased insurance premiums, civil litigation, fines, penalties or losses not covered by insurance.  Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. Our business is dependent on technology, and an inability to invest in technological improvements or obtain reliable technology and technological support may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services.  In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of institutions to reduce costs.  We depend in part upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that satisfy their operational needs.  Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements and third-party support.  There can be no assurance that we will effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or successfully market these products and services to our customers.  We also rely on our computer systems.  For example, we rely on our computer systems to accurately track and record our assets and liabilities.  If our computer systems become unreliable, fail or experience a breach of security, our ability to maintain accurate financial records may be impaired, which could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business is highly correlated to local economic conditions in a geographically concentrated part of the United States.. Unlike larger organizations that are more geographically diversified, our banking offices are primarily concentrated in select markets in Georgia and Tennessee.  As a result of this geographic concentration, our financial results depend largely upon economic conditions in these market areas.  Deterioration in economic conditions in the markets we serve could result in one or more of the following:. • an increase in loan delinquencies;. • an increase in problem assets and foreclosures;. • a decrease in the demand for our products and services; and. • a decrease in the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate, in turn reducing customers' borrowing power, the value of assets associated with problem loans and collateral coverage.. 22. Impairment of our investment securities could require charges to earnings, which could result in a negative impact on our results of operations.. In assessing the impairment of investment securities, we consider the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuers, whether the decline in market value was affected by macroeconomic conditions and whether we have the intent to sell the security or will be required to sell the security before its anticipated recovery.  Future declines in the market value or our investment securities may result in other-than-temporary impairment of these securities, which could lead to charges that could have a material adverse effect on our net income and capital levels.. The value of our goodwill and other intangible assets may decline in the future.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $27.6 million of goodwill and other intangible assets.  A significant decline in our financial condition, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower growth rates or a significant and sustained decline in the price of our common stock may necessitate taking charges in the future related to the impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets.  If we were to conclude that a future write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets is necessary, we would record the appropriate charge, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Legislative and Regulatory Events. The Dodd-Frank Act and related regulations may adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new agency, the CFPB, with power to promulgate and enforce consumer protection laws.  Smaller depository institutions, including those with $10 billion or less in assets, will be subject to the CFPB's rule-writing authority, and existing depository institution regulatory agencies will retain examination and enforcement authority for such institutions.  The Dodd-Frank Act also established a Financial Stability Oversight Council chaired by the Secretary of the Treasury with authority to identify institutions and practices that might pose a systemic risk and, among other things, includes provisions affecting:. • corporate governance and executive compensation of all companies whose securities are registered with the SEC;. • FDIC insurance assessments;. • interchange fees for debit cards, which would be set by the Federal Reserve under a restrictive \"reasonable and proportional cost\" per transaction standard, and;. • minimum capital levels for bank holding companies, subject to a grandfather clause for financial institutions with less than $15 billion in assets.. The CFPB has broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws.  The CFPB has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks, including the authority to prohibit unfair, deceptive or abusive acts and practices.  In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act enhanced the regulation of mortgage banking and gave to the CFPB oversight of many of the core laws which regulate the mortgage industry and the authority to implement mortgage regulations.  New regulations adopted and anticipated to be adopted by the CFPB will significantly impact consumer mortgage lending and servicing.. The Dodd-Frank Act and the resulting regulations will likely affect our business and operations in other ways which are difficult to predict at this time.  However, compliance with these laws and regulations will result in additional costs, which may adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity, any of which may impact the market price of our common stock.. The CFPB's \"ability-to-repay\" and \"qualified mortgage\" rules could have a negative impact on our loan origination process and foreclosure proceedings.. The CFPB has adopted rules that are likely to impact our residential mortgage lending practices, and the residential mortgage market generally including rules that implement the \"ability - to - repay\" requirement and provide protection from liability for \"qualified mortgages,\" as required by the Dodd-Frank Act.  The ability-to-repay rule requires lenders to consider, among other things, income, employment status, assets, payment amounts, and credit history before approving a mortgage, and provides a compliance \"safe harbor\" for lenders that issue certain \"qualified mortgages.\"  The rules define a \"qualified mortgage\" to have certain specified characteristics, and generally prohibit loans with negative amortization, interest-only payments, balloon payments, or terms exceeding 30 years from being qualified mortgages.  The rule also establishes general underwriting criteria for qualified mortgages, including that monthly payments be calculated based on the highest payment that will apply in the first five years of the loan and that the borrower have a total debt-to-income ratio that is less than or equal to 43%.  Although the new \"qualified mortgage\" rules may provide better definition and more certainty regarding regulatory requirements, the rules may also increase. 23. our compliance burden and reduce our lending flexibility and discretion, which could negatively impact our ability to originate new loans and the cost of originating new loans.  Any loans that we make outside of the \"qualified mortgage\" criteria could expose us to an increased risk of liability and reduce or delay our ability to foreclose on the underlying property.  Additionally, qualified \"higher priced mortgages\" only provide a rebuttable presumption of compliance and thus may be more susceptible to challenges from borrowers.  It is difficult to predict how the CFPB's \"qualified mortgage\" rules will impact us, but any decreases in loan origination volume or increases in compliance and foreclosure costs could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. The CFPB continues to reshape consumer financial laws through rulemaking and enforcement of unfair, deceptive or abusive practices, which may directly impact the business operations of depository institutions offering consumer financial products or services including the Bank.. Banking regulatory agencies have increasingly used a general consumer protection statute to address \"unethical\" or otherwise \"bad\" business practices that may not necessarily fall directly under the purview of a specific banking or consumer finance law.. The law of choice for enforcement against such business practices generally has been Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act-the primary federal law that prohibits unfair or deceptive acts or practices and unfair methods of competition in or affecting commerce (\"UDAP\" or \"FTC Act\").  \"Unjustified consumer injury\" is the principal focus of the FTC Act.  Prior to the Dodd-Frank Act, there was little formal guidance to provide insight to the parameters for compliance with the UDAP law.  However, the UDAP provisions were expanded under the Dodd-Frank Act to apply to \"unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices\" (\"UDAAP\"), which has been delegated to the CFPB for supervision.  The CFPB has published and periodically updates its first Supervision and Examination Manual that addresses compliance with and the examination of UDAAP and has enacted a number of regulations governing the conduct of consumer lending activities.  The potential reach of the CFPB's broad rulemaking powers, and UDAAP authority on the operations of financial institutions offering consumer financial products or services, including the Bank is currently unknown.. The Federal Reserve has adopted capital requirements for financial institutions that may require us to retain or raise additional capital and/or reduce dividends.. The Federal Reserve adopted increased regulatory capital requirements that implemented changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act and portions of the Basel III regulatory capital reforms.  In the future, the capital requirements for bank holding companies may require us to retain or raise additional capital, restrict our ability to pay dividends and repurchase shares of our common stock, and restrict our ability to provide certain forms of discretionary executive compensation and/or require other changes to our strategic plans.  The rules could restrict our ability to grow and implement our future business strategies, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. We could be subject to adverse changes in tax laws, regulations and interpretations or challenges to our tax positions.. From time to time, changes in tax laws or regulations may be proposed or enacted that could adversely affect our overall tax liability. For example, the U.S. tax reform legislation enacted on December 22, 2017 represents a significant overhaul of the U.S. federal tax code. This tax legislation significantly reduced the U.S. statutory corporate tax rate and made other changes that could have a favorable impact on our overall U.S. federal tax liability in a given period. However, the tax legislation also included a number of provisions, including, but not limited to, the limitation or elimination of various deductions or credits (including for interest expense and for performance-based compensation under Section 162(m), the imposition of taxes on certain cross-border payments or transfers, the changing of the timing of the recognition of certain income and deductions or their character, and the limitation of asset basis under certain circumstances, that could significant and adversely affect our U.S. federal income tax position. As previously disclosed, the reduction of the federal corporate tax rate to 21%, will cause our net deferred tax asset to be revalued. Our net deferred tax asset represents net operating loss carryforwards that will be used to reduce corporate taxes expected to be paid in the future as well as differences between the carrying amounts and tax basis of assets and liabilities carried on the Company's balance sheet. We have performed an analysis to determine the impact of the revaluation of the deferred tax asset and anticipate that the value of the deferred tax asset will be reduced significantly. The legislation also made significant changes to the tax rules applicable to insurance companies and other entities with which we do business. We are continuing to evaluate the overall impact of this tax legislation on our operations and U.S. federal income tax position. There can be no assurance that changes in tax laws or regulations, both within the U.S. and the other jurisdictions in which we operate, will not materially and adversely affect our effective tax rate, tax payments, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, changes in tax laws and regulations that impact our customers and counterparties or the economy generally may also impact our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, tax laws and regulations are complex and subject to varying interpretations, and any significant failure to comply with applicable tax laws and regulations in all relevant jurisdictions could give rise to substantial penalties and liabilities. Any changes. 24. in enacted tax laws (such as the recent U.S. tax legislation), rules or regulatory or judicial interpretations; any adverse outcome in connection with tax audits in any jurisdiction; or any change in the pronouncements relating to accounting for income taxes could materially and adversely impact our effective tax rate, tax payments, business, operating results and financial condition.. A new accounting standard may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The measure of our allowance for loan losses is dependent on the adoption and interpretation of accounting standards.  The Financial Accounting Standards Board has issued a new credit impairment model, the Current Expected Credit Loss, or CECL model, which will become effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019 (effective for the calendar year beginning January 1, 2020).  Under the CECL model, we will be required to present certain financial assets carried at amortized cost at the net amount expected to be collected.  The measurement of expected credit losses is to be based on information about past events, including historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectability of the reported amount, which will require us to increase the types of data we collect and review to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses. This measurement will take place at the time the financial asset is first added to the balance sheet and periodically thereafter.  This differs significantly from the \"incurred loss\" model currently required under GAAP, which delays recognition until it is probable a loss has been incurred.  Accordingly, regardless of any actual changes to the composition or performance of our loan portfolio, the new accounting standard may require an increase in our allowance for loan losses or expenses incurred to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses.  Moreover, the CECL model may create more volatility in the level of our allowance for loan losses.  If we are required to materially increase our level of allowance for loan losses for any reason, such increase could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in accounting standards and management's selection of accounting methods, including assumptions and estimates, could materially impact our financial statements.. From time to time the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") update GAAP, which govern the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.  These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations.  In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in changes to previously reported financial results, or a cumulative charge to retained earnings.  In addition, management is required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our financial statements, including determining the fair value of certain assets and liabilities, among other items.  Incorrect assumptions or estimates may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to regulation by various federal and state entities.. We are subject to the regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the OCC, the Federal Reserve, and the FDIC.  New regulations issued by these agencies may adversely affect our ability to carry on our business activities.  We are subject to various federal and state laws and certain changes in these laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations.  Noncompliance with certain of these regulations may impact our business plans, including our ability to branch, offer certain products or execute existing or planned business strategies.. We are also subject to the accounting rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the FASB.  Changes in accounting rules could materially adversely affect the reported financial statements or our results of operations and may also require extraordinary efforts or additional costs to implement.  Any of these laws or regulations may be modified or changed from time to time, and we cannot be assured that such modifications or changes will not adversely affect us.. Regulators periodically examine our business and we may be required to remediate adverse examination findings.. The Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the OCC periodically examine our business, including our compliance with laws and regulations, and we may become subject to other regulatory agency examinations in the future. If, as a result of an examination, a federal banking agency were to determine that our financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity, or other aspects of any of our operations had become unsatisfactory, or that we were in violation of any law or regulation, it may require us to take a number of different remedial actions as it deems appropriate. These actions include the power to enjoin \"unsafe or unsound\" practices, to require affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to issue an administrative order that can be judicially enforced, to direct an increase in our capital, to restrict our growth by preventing us from acquiring other financial institutions or limiting our ability to expand our business by engaging in new activities, to change the asset composition of our portfolio or balance sheet, to assess civil monetary penalties against our officers or directors, to remove officers and directors and, if it is concluded that such conditions cannot be corrected or there is an imminent risk of loss to depositors,. 25. to terminate our deposit insurance and place us into receivership or conservatorship. Any regulatory action against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Regulations relating to privacy, information security and data protection could increase our costs, affect or limit how Atlantic Capital collects and uses personal information and adversely affect our business opportunities.. Atlantic Capital is subject to various privacy, information security and data protection laws, including requirements concerning security breach notification, and we could be negatively impacted by them.  For example, certain of our business is subject to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (\"GLBA\") and implementing regulations and guidance.  Among other things, the GLBA:. • imposes certain limitations on the ability of financial institutions to share consumers' nonpublic personal information with nonaffiliated third parties;. • requires that financial institutions provide certain disclosures to consumers about their information collection, sharing and security practices and affords customers the right to \"opt out\" of the institution's disclosure of their personal financial information to nonaffiliated third parties (with certain exceptions); and. • requires financial institutions to develop, implement and maintain a written comprehensive information security program containing safeguards that are appropriate to the financial institution's size and complexity, the nature and scope of the financial institution's activities, and the sensitivity of customer information processed by the financial institution as well as plans for responding to data security breaches.. Moreover, various United States federal banking regulatory agencies, states and foreign jurisdictions have enacted data security breach notification requirements with varying levels of individual, consumer, regulatory and/or law enforcement notification in certain circumstances in the event of a security breach.  Many of these requirements also apply broadly to businesses that accept our payment.  In many countries that have yet to impose data security breach notification requirements, regulators have increasingly used the threat of significant sanctions and penalties by data protection authorities to encourage voluntary notification and discourage data security breaches.. Furthermore, legislators and/or regulators in the United States are increasingly adopting or revising privacy, information security and data protection laws that potentially could have a significant impact on our current and planned privacy, data protection and information security - related practices, our collection, use, sharing, retention and safeguarding of consumer and/or employee information, and some of our current or planned business activities.  This could also increase our costs of compliance and business operations and could reduce income from certain business initiatives.  This includes increased privacy-related enforcement activity at the federal level, by the Federal Trade Commission, as well as at the state level, such as with regard to mobile applications.. Compliance with current or future privacy, data protection and information security laws (including those regarding security breach notification) affecting customer and/or employee data to which we are subject could result in higher compliance and technology costs and could restrict our ability to provide certain products and services, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability.  Our failure to comply with privacy, data protection and information security laws could result in potentially significant regulatory and/or governmental investigations and/or actions, litigation, fines, sanctions, and damage to our reputation and brand.. Anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism financing laws could have significant adverse consequences for the Company.. We maintain an enterprise-wide program designed to enable us to comply with applicable anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism financing laws and regulations, including the Bank Secrecy Act and the USA PATRIOT ACT.  This program includes policies, procedures, processes and other internal controls designed to identify, monitor, manage and mitigate the risk of money laundering or terrorist financing posed by our products, services, customers and geographic locale.  These controls include procedures and processes to detect and report suspicious transactions, perform customer due diligence, respond to requests from law enforcement, and meet all recordkeeping and reporting requirements related to particular transactions involving currency or monetary.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. Limited trading in our common stock may impact the ability of shareholders to sell their shares and the price of our common stock.. Trading activity in our common stock may be limited. If an active market for our common stock is not sustained, the market price of our common stock may be adversely impacted.  This may make it difficult for our shareholders to sell their shares at a favorable price or to sell their shares at all.   In addition, any negative impact on the price or liquidity of our common stock may impair our ability to raise capital to continue to fund our operations by offering and selling additional shares and our ability to use our common stock as consideration in future acquisitions.. 26. Sales of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception of such sales, could depress the market price of our common stock.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public markets and the availability of those shares for sale could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.  In addition, future issuances of equity securities, including pursuant to outstanding options, could dilute the interests of our existing shareholders and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.  We may issue such additional equity or convertible securities to raise additional capital.  Depending on the amount offered and the levels at which we offer the stock, issuances of common or preferred stock could be substantially dilutive to shareholders of our common stock.  Moreover, to the extent that we issue restricted stock, phantom shares, stock appreciation rights, options or warrants to purchase our common stock in the future and those stock appreciation rights, options or warrants are exercised or as shares of the restricted stock vest, our shareholders may experience further dilution.  Holders of our shares of common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle holders to purchase their pro-rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our shareholders.  We cannot predict with certainty the effect that future sales of our common stock would have on the market price of our common stock.. We are an emerging growth company and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the \"JOBS Act\"), and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved.  In addition, even if we comply with the greater obligations of public companies that are not emerging growth companies, we may avail ourselves of the reduced requirements applicable to emerging growth companies from time to time in the future, so long as we are an emerging growth company.  We will remain an emerging growth company for up to five years, though we may cease to be an emerging growth company earlier under certain circumstances, including if, before the end of such five years, we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission (which depends on, among other things, having a market value of common stock held by non-affiliates in excess of $700 million) or if our total annual gross revenues equal or exceed $1 billion in a fiscal year.  We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we rely on these exemptions.  If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. A number of factors could cause the price of our common stock to be volatile or to decline.. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control.  In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies.  These broad market fluctuations have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the market price of our common stock.  Among the factors that could affect our stock price are:. • actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition;. • changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of other financial institutions;. • failure to meet analysts' revenue or earnings estimates;. • speculation in the press or investment community;. • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings;. • actions by institutional shareholders;. • fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors;. • general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry;. • proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments;. • anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us or the financial services industry; or. • domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance.. 27. The holders of our subordinated notes have rights that are senior to those of our shareholders.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $50 million of subordinated notes outstanding.  The subordinated notes are senior to shares of our common stock.  As a result, we must make payments on the subordinated notes before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of bankruptcy, dissolution, or liquidation, the holders of the subordinated notes must be satisfied before any distributions can be made to the holders of the common stock.  Our ability to pay future distributions depends upon the earnings of the Bank and the issuance of dividends from the Bank to the Company, which may be inadequate to service the obligations.. We may borrow funds or issue additional debt and equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, any of which may be senior to our common stock as to distributions and in liquidation, which could negatively affect the value of our common stock.. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by entering into debt or debt-like financing that is unsecured or secured by all or up to all of our assets, or by issuing additional debt or equity securities, which could include issuances of secured or unsecured commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior notes, subordinated notes, preferred stock, common stock, or securities convertible into or exchangeable for equity securities.  In the event of our liquidation, our lenders and holders of our debt and preferred securities would receive a distribution of our available assets before distributions to the holders of our common stock.  Because our decision to incur debt and issue securities in our future offerings will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate with certainty the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings and debt financings.  Further, market conditions could require us to accept less favorable terms for the issuance of our securities in the future.  In addition, the borrowing of funds or the issuance of debt would increase our leverage and decrease our liquidity, and the issuance of additional equity securities would dilute the interests of our existing shareholders.. Our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders is limited.. Our primary source of cash is dividends we receive from the Bank.  Therefore, our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders depends on the Bank's ability to pay dividends to us.  We have not historically paid dividends and did not pay dividends in 2017, 2016 or 2015.  Additionally, banks and bank holding companies are subject to significant regulatory restrictions on the payment of cash dividends.  In light of regulatory restrictions and our plans to build capital, we currently intend to reinvest the earnings of the Bank and to not pay any dividends for the foreseeable future.  Our future dividend policy will depend on our earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, regulatory requirements and other factors that the boards of directors of the Company and the Bank consider relevant.. We may not be able to raise additional capital on terms favorable to us or at all.. In the future, should we need additional capital to support our business, expand our operations or maintain our minimum capital requirements, we may not be able to raise additional funds.  Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance at that time.  We cannot provide assurance that such financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all.  If we borrow money to provide capital to the Bank, we must obtain prior regulatory approvals, and we may not be able to pay this debt and could default.  We cannot provide assurance that funds will be available to us on favorable terms or at all."
