[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Risks Relating To Our Business. If our products do not achieve widespread market acceptance in the United States, our operating results will be harmed and we may not achieve or sustain profitability.. Our success will depend, in large part, on the medical community's acceptance of our principal products in the United States, which is the largest revenue market in the world for medical devices. The U.S. medical community's acceptance of our products will depend upon our ability to demonstrate the safety and efficacy, advantages, long-term clinical performance and cost-effectiveness of our products as compared to other products. In addition, acceptance of products for the treatment of Afib is dependent upon, among other factors, the level of screening for Afib general awareness and education of the medical community about the surgical treatment of Afib and the existence, effectiveness and safety of our products. Market acceptance and adoption of our products for the treatment of Afib also depends on the level of health insurer (including Medicare) reimbursement to physicians and hospitals for the use of our products.. We cannot predict whether the U.S. medical community will accept our products or, if accepted, the extent of their use. Negative publicity resulting from incidents involving our products, other products related to those we sell or products or procedures subject to our clinical trials could have a significant adverse effect on the overall acceptance of our products. If we encounter difficulties growing the market for our products in the U.S., we may not be able to increase our revenue enough to achieve or sustain profitability, and our business and operating results will be seriously harmed.. We rely on our ablation, ablation-related and left atrial appendage management products as our primary sources of revenue. If we are not successful in selling these products, or if these products become obsolete, our operating results will be harmed.. Our ablation and ablation-related products, along with our left atrial appendage management products, generate a large majority of our revenue. We expect that sales of these products will continue to account for a majority of our revenue for the foreseeable future and that our future revenue will depend on the increasing acceptance by the medical community of our products as a standard surgical treatment of Afib. We may not be able to maintain or increase market acceptance of our products for a number of additional reasons, including those set forth elsewhere in this \"Risk Factors\" section. In addition, our products may become obsolete prior to the end of their anticipated useful lives or we may introduce new products or next-generation products prior to the end of the useful life of a prior generation, either of which may require us to dispose of existing inventory and related capital equipment and/or write off their value or accelerate their depreciation. Since we believe that physicians are using our ablation and ablation-related products largely for the surgical treatment of Afib, if physicians do not use our products to treat Afib, we would lose substantially all of our revenue.. Competition from existing and new products and procedures may decrease our market share and cause our revenue to decline.. The medical device industry, including the market for the treatment of Afib, is highly competitive, subject to rapid technological change and significantly affected by new product introductions and promotional activities of its participants. There is no assurance that our products will compete effectively against drugs, catheter-based ablation, implantable devices, other ablation systems, other products or techniques to exclude the left atrial appendage, or other surgical Afib treatments, which may be more well-established among doctors and hospitals. In addition, such other products or techniques may be sold or implemented at lower prices. Due to the size of the Afib and LAA exclusion markets, and the unmet need for an Afib cure, we anticipate that new or existing competitors may. 11. Table of Contents. develop competing products, procedures and/or clinical solutions. There are few barriers to prevent new entrants or existing competitors from developing products to compete directly with ours. Companies also compete with us to attract qualified scientific and technical personnel as well as funding. Some of our competitors have greater financial, manufacturing, marketing and research and development capabilities than we have and may obtain FDA approval or clearance for their products before we do. The introduction of new products, procedures or clinical solutions, or of our competitors obtaining FDA approvals or clearances, may result in price reductions, reduced margins, loss of market share, or may render our products obsolete, which could adversely affect our revenue and future profitability.. Worldwide economic conditions may reduce demand for procedures using our products or otherwise result in adverse implications on our business, operating results and financial condition.. General worldwide economic conditions may deteriorate due to the effects of, among other developments, general credit market crises, collateral effects on the finance and banking industries, concerns about inflation, slower economic activity which may be caused by many factors, including natural disasters or other catastrophes, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. We are unable to predict the extent to which current or future worldwide economic conditions may impact our business. Specifically, because many procedures using our products are elective, they can be deferred by patients. In addition, patients may not be as willing under current or future economic conditions to take time off from work or spend their money on deductibles and co-payments often required in connection with the procedures that use our products.. Beyond patient demand, any current or future deterioration in worldwide economic conditions, including in particular their effects on the credit and capital markets, may have other adverse implications for our business. For example, our customers' ability to borrow money from their existing lenders or to obtain credit from other sources to purchase our products may be impaired, resulting in a decrease in sales. Although we maintain allowances for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments, we cannot guarantee that we will accurately predict the loss rates we will experience, especially given any continuing turmoil in the worldwide economy. A significant change in the liquidity or financial condition of our customers could cause unfavorable trends in our receivable collections and additional allowances may be required, which could adversely affect our operating results. Further, given the economic and political challenges facing Eurozone countries, concerns have been raised regarding the stability and suitability of the Euro as a single currency. The failure of the Euro as a single currency could adversely affect our operating results.. Healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade. There have been and may continue to be proposals by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to keep, contain or reduce healthcare costs.. The continuing efforts of governments, insurance companies and other payors of healthcare costs to contain or reduce these costs, combined with closer scrutiny of such costs, could lead to patients being unable to obtain approval for payment from these third-party payors. The cost containment measures that healthcare providers are instituting both in the U.S. and internationally could harm our business. Some healthcare providers in the U.S. have adopted or are considering a managed care system in which the providers contract to provide comprehensive healthcare for a fixed cost per person. Healthcare providers may attempt to control costs by authorizing fewer elective surgical procedures or by requiring the use of the least expensive devices possible, which could adversely affect the demand for our products or the price at which we can sell our products. Some healthcare providers have sought to consolidate and create new companies with greater market power, including hospitals. As the healthcare industry consolidates, competition to provide products and services has become and will continue to become more intense. This has resulted and likely will continue to result in greater pricing pressures and the exclusion of certain suppliers from important marketing segments.. We face significant uncertainty in the industry due to government healthcare reform.. The U.S. Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA), as amended, and other healthcare reform have a significant impact on our business. The impact of the PPACA on the healthcare industry is extensive and includes, among other things, the federal government assuming a larger role in the healthcare system, expanding healthcare coverage of United States citizens and mandating basic healthcare benefits. The PPACA impacted our business by requiring an excise tax on all U.S. medical device sales beginning in January 2013. In December 2015, the U.S. government approved the suspension of the excise tax on medical device sales beginning January 1, 2016 through December 31, 2017. Then, in January 2018, the U.S. government approved an additional suspension of the excise tax on medical device sales from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2019. When in effect, the increased tax burden from the PPACA significantly impacts our results of operations and cash flows.. It is possible that legislation will be introduced and passed by the Republican-controlled Congress repealing the PPACA in whole or in part and signed into law.  Because of the continued uncertainty about the implementation or continued effectiveness of the PPACA, including the potential for further legal challenges or repeal of that legislation, we cannot quantify or predict with any certainty the likely impact of the PPACA or its repeal on our business model, prospects, financial condition or results of operations.. Any healthcare reforms enacted in the future may, like the PPACA, be phased in over a number of years but, if enacted, could reduce our revenue, increase our costs or require us to revise the ways in which we conduct business or put us at risk for loss of. 12. Table of Contents. business. In addition, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected by changes under the PPACA and changes under any federal or state legislation adopted in the future.. We sell our products outside of the United States and we are subject to various regulatory and other risks relating to international operations, which could harm our revenue and profitability.. Doing business outside of the United States exposes us to risks distinct from those we face in our domestic operations. For example, our operations outside of the United States are subject to different regulatory requirements in each jurisdiction where we operate or have sales. Our failure, or the failure of our distributors, to comply with current or future foreign regulatory requirements, or the assertion by foreign authorities that we or our distributors have failed to comply, could result in adverse consequences, including enforcement actions, fines and penalties, recalls, cessation of sales, civil and criminal prosecution, and the consequences could be disproportionate to the relative contribution of our international operations to our results of operations. Moreover, if political or economic conditions deteriorate in these countries, or if any of these countries are affected by a natural disaster or other catastrophe, our ability to conduct our international operations or collect on international accounts receivable could be limited and our costs could be increased, which could negatively affect our operating results. Engaging in business outside of the United States inherently involves a number of other difficulties and risks, including, but not limited to:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\texport restrictions and controls relating to technology;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpricing pressure that we may experience internationally;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpolitical and economic instability;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tconsequences arising from natural disasters and other similar catastrophes, such as hurricanes, tornados, earthquakes, floods and tsunamis;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpotentially adverse tax consequences, tariffs and other trade barriers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe need to hire additional personnel to promote our products outside of the United States;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinternational terrorism and anti-American sentiment;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfluctuations in exchange rates for future sales denominated in foreign currency, which represent a majority of our sales outside of the United States; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulty in obtaining and enforcing intellectual property rights.. In addition, our business practices in foreign countries must comply with U.S. laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). We have a compliance program in place designed to reduce the likelihood of potential violations of the FCPA and other U.S. and foreign anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. If violations were to occur, they could subject us to fines and other penalties as well as increased compliance costs.. Our exposure to each of these risks may increase our costs and require significant management attention. We cannot assure you that one or more of these factors will not harm our business.. Our quarterly financial results are likely to fluctuate significantly because our sales prospects are uncertain.. Due to current worldwide economic conditions, natural disasters and other factors discussed in this \"Risk Factors\" section which may impact our sales results, our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter or from prior year to current year periods, particularly because our sales prospects are uncertain. These fluctuations may also affect our annual operating results and may cause those results to fluctuate unexpectedly from year to year.. Restrictions in our ability to train surgeons in the use of our products could reduce the market acceptance of our products or result in injuries to patients or other adverse events that could possibly lead to litigation that could harm us or could reduce our revenue.. It is critical to the success of our sales efforts to ensure that there are a sufficient number of surgeons familiar with, trained on and proficient in the use of our products. While we train providers in the safe and effective use of our products, we do not train them to use any of our products specifically to treat Afib unless the product is FDA-approved specifically for the treatment of Afib. Our Isolator Synergy System is approved for the treatment of persistent and long standing persistent forms of Afib concomitant to open heart bypass graft or valve replacement surgery. The procedure using our Isolator Synergy System in this manner is known as the MAZE IV\231 procedure. Following FDA approval, we instituted a program to train all new and existing users of the Isolator Synergy System in the MAZE IV procedure. We also make available training on the safe and effective use of our other products consistent with their FDA approved or cleared indications, but we cannot provide assurance that a sufficient number of surgeons will become aware of training programs.. 13. Table of Contents. Surgeons may not commit enough time to sufficiently learn our products.. In order for surgeons to learn to use our products, they must attend structured training sessions in order to familiarize themselves with the products and they must be committed to learning the technology. Further, surgeons must utilize the technology on a regular basis to ensure they maintain the skill set necessary to use the products. Continued market acceptance could be delayed by lack of surgeon willingness to attend training sessions, by the time required to complete this training or by state or institutional restrictions on our ability to provide training. An inability to train a sufficient number of surgeons to generate adequate demand for our products could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and cash flow.. Our marketing strategy is dependent on collaboration with physician \"thought leaders.\". Our research and development efforts and our marketing strategy depend heavily on obtaining support, physician training assistance and collaboration from highly-regarded physicians at leading commercial and research hospitals, particularly in the U.S. and Europe. If we are unable to gain and/or maintain such support, training services and collaboration, or if the reputation or standing of these physicians is impaired or otherwise adversely affected, our ability to market our products and, as a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow, could be materially and adversely affected.. Unless and until we obtain additional FDA approval for our products, we will not be able to promote many of them to treat Afib or to prevent stroke, and our ability to maintain and grow our business could be harmed.. Although our Isolator Synergy System received FDA approval for the treatment of some forms of Afib in certain procedures, we have not received FDA clearance or approval to promote our other products for the treatment of Afib or the prevention of stroke. See \"Business - Government Regulation.\" Unless and until we obtain FDA clearance or approval for the use of our products to treat Afib or prevent stroke, we, and others acting on our behalf, may not claim in the U.S. that our products are safe and effective for such uses or otherwise promote them for such uses. Similar restrictions exist outside of the U.S. There is no assurance that future clearances or approvals of our products will be granted or that current or future clearances or approvals will not be withdrawn. Failure to obtain a clearance or approval or loss of an existing clearance or approval, could hurt our ability to maintain and grow our business.. In order to obtain additional FDA approvals to promote our products for the treatment of Afib or reduction in stroke risk, we will need to demonstrate in clinical trials that our products are safe and effective for such use. Development of sufficient and appropriate clinical protocols to demonstrate quality, safety and efficacy may be required and we may not adequately develop such protocols to support approval. We cannot assure you that any of our clinical trials will be completed in a timely manner or successfully or that the results obtained will be acceptable to FDA. We, FDA or the IRB may suspend a clinical trial at any time for various reasons, including a belief that the risks to study subjects outweigh the anticipated benefits. In addition, if the results obtained from our clinical trials, any other clinical studies, or clinical or commercial experience indicate that any of our products are not safe or effective, or not as safe or effective as other treatment options, FDA may not approve our products for the treatment of Afib or reduction in stroke risk,  and the adoption of the use of our products may suffer and our business would be harmed.. Our clinical trials are typically time consuming, expensive and the outcome uncertain. Delays in patient enrollment or failure of patients to consent or continue to participate in a clinical trial may cause an increase in costs and delays in the approval and attempted commercialization of our products or result in the failure of the clinical trial. Conducting successful clinical studies may require the enrollment of large numbers of clinical sites and patients, and suitable patients may be difficult to identify and recruit. Patient enrollment in clinical trials and completion of patient participation and follow-up depends on many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the trial protocol, the attractiveness of, or the discomforts and risks associated with, the treatments received by enrolled subjects, the availability of appropriate clinical trial investigators, support staff, and proximity of patients to clinical sites and ability to comply with the eligibility and exclusion criteria for participation in the clinical trial and patient compliance. For example, patients may be discouraged from enrolling in our clinical trials if the trial protocol requires them to undergo extensive post-treatment procedures or follow-up to assess the safety and effectiveness of our products or if they determine that the treatments received under the trial protocols are not attractive or involve unacceptable risks or discomforts. Patients may also not participate in our clinical trials if they choose to participate in contemporaneous clinical trials of competitive products or they can obtain the treatment without participating in our trial.. We may experience unfavorable publicity relating to our business and our industry. This publicity could have a negative impact on our ability to attract and retain customers, our sales, clinical studies involving our products, our reputation and our stock price.. We may experience a negative impact on our business from newspaper articles or other media reports relating to, among other things, our compliance with FDA regulations for medical device reporting and concerns over disclosure of financial relationships between us and certain of our consultants who are involved with clinical studies and the publication of articles concerning our products. We believe that such publicity would potentially have a negative impact on our clinical studies, business, results of operations and financial condition or cause other adverse effects, including a decline in the price of our stock.. 14. Table of Contents. We may be subject to fines, penalties, injunctions and other sanctions if we are deemed to be promoting the use of our products for unapproved, or off-label, uses.. Our business and future growth depend on the continued use of our products for the treatment of Afib or prevention of stroke. Unless the products are approved or cleared by FDA specifically for the treatment of Afib or prevention of stroke, we may not make claims about the safety or effectiveness of our products for such uses.. These limitations present a material risk that FDA or other federal or state law enforcement authorities could determine that the nature and scope of our sales, marketing and/or support activities, though designed to comply with all FDA requirements, constitute the promotion of our products for an unapproved use in violation of the FDCA. We also face the risk that the FDA or other governmental authorities might pursue enforcement based on past activities that we have discontinued or changed, including sales activities, arrangements with institutions and doctors, educational and training programs and other activities. Investigations concerning the promotion of unapproved uses and related issues, are typically expensive, disruptive and burdensome and generate negative publicity. If our promotional activities are found to be in violation of the law, we may face significant fines and penalties and may be required to substantially change our sales, promotion, grant and educational activities. There is also a possibility that we could be enjoined from selling some or all of our products for any unapproved use. In addition, as a result of an enforcement action against us or our executive officers, we could be excluded from participation in government healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid.. The use of products we sell may result in injuries or other adverse events that lead to product liability suits, which could be costly to our business or our customers' businesses.. The use of products we sell may result in a variety of serious complications, including damage to the heart, internal bleeding, death or other adverse events, potentially leading to product liability claims. Serious complications are commonly encountered in connection with surgical procedures. If products we sell are defectively designed, manufactured or labeled, contain inadequate warnings, contain defective components, are misused or are associated with serious injuries or deaths, we may become subject to costly litigation by our customers or their patients. We carry product liability insurance that is limited in scope and amount and may not be adequate to fully protect us against product liability claims. We could be required to pay damages that exceed our insurance coverage. Any product liability claim, with or without merit, could result in an increase in our product insurance rates or our inability to secure coverage on reasonable terms, if at all. Even in the absence of a claim, our insurance rates may rise in the future. Any product liability claim, even a meritless or unsuccessful one, would be time-consuming and expensive to defend and could result in the diversion of our management's attention from our business and result in adverse publicity, withdrawal of clinical trial participants, injury to our reputation and loss of revenue. Any of these events could negatively affect our earnings and financial condition.. Our intellectual property rights may not provide meaningful commercial protection for our products, which could enable third parties to use our technology or methods, or very similar technology or methods, and could reduce our ability to compete.. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our proprietary rights to the technologies used in our products. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. Our patent applications may not issue as patents at all or in a form that will be advantageous to us. Our issued patents and those that may be issued in the future may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing related products. Although we have taken steps to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology, we cannot assure you that third parties will not be able to design around our patents or, if they do infringe upon our technology, that we will be successful in or will have sufficient resources to pursue a claim of infringement against those third parties. We believe that third parties may have developed or are developing products that could infringe upon our patent rights. Any pursuit of an infringement claim by us may involve substantial expense or diversion of management attention. In addition, although we have generally entered into confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants, investigators and advisors, such agreements may be breached, may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements. Additionally, as is common in the medical device industry, some of these individuals were previously employed at other medical equipment or biotechnology companies, including our competitors. Although no claims are currently pending against us, we may be subject to claims that these individuals or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers.. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Foreign countries generally do not allow patents to cover methods for performing surgical procedures. If our intellectual property does not provide significant protection against foreign or domestic competition, our competitors could compete more directly with us, which could result in a decrease in our market share. All of these factors may harm our competitive position.. 15. Table of Contents. The medical device industry is characterized by extensive litigation and administrative proceedings over patent and other intellectual property rights and any litigation or claim against us may cause us to incur substantial costs, could place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of management from our business and harm our reputation.. Despite measures taken to protect our intellectual property, unauthorized parties might copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary.  Whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. Any patent dispute, even one without merit or an unsuccessful one, would be time-consuming and expensive to defend and could result in the diversion of our management's attention from our business and result in adverse publicity, the disruption of development and marketing efforts, injury to our reputation and loss of revenue. Litigation also puts our patent applications at risk of being rejected and our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly, and may provoke third parties to assert claims against us. Any of these events could negatively affect our earnings and financial condition.. In the event of a patent dispute, if a third party's patents were upheld as valid and enforceable and we were found to be infringing, or found to be inducing infringement by others, we could be prevented from selling our products unless we were able to obtain a license to use technology or ideas covered by such patent or are able to redesign our system to avoid infringement, or we may be ordered to pay substantial damages to the patent holders. A license may not be available at all or on terms acceptable to us, and we may not be able to redesign our products to avoid any infringement. Modification of our products or development of new products could require us to conduct additional clinical trials and to revise our filings with the FDA and other regulatory bodies, which would be time-consuming and expensive. If we are not successful in obtaining a license or redesigning our products, we may be unable to sell our products and our business could suffer.. The increase in cost of medical malpractice premiums to doctors and hospitals or the lack of malpractice insurance coverage due to the use of our products by doctors for an off-label indication may cause certain doctors or hospitals to decide not to use our products and may damage our ability to grow and maintain the market for our products.. Insurance carriers have been raising premiums charged for medical malpractice insurance due, at least in part, to increased risks associated with off-label procedures, including higher damage awards for successful plaintiffs. Insurance carriers may continue to raise premiums or they may deny malpractice coverage for procedures performed using products such as ours on an off-label basis. If this trend continues or worsens, our revenue may fall as doctors or hospitals decide against purchasing our products due to the cost or unavailability of insurance coverage.. We have a history of net losses and we may never become profitable.. We have incurred net losses each year since our inception, including, most recently, net losses of $26,892 in 2017, $33,338 in 2016 and $27,212 in 2015. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $225,866.. Our net losses have resulted principally from costs and expenses relating to sales, training and promotional efforts, research and development, seeking regulatory clearances and approvals and general operating expenses. We expect to continue to incur substantial expenditures and to potentially incur additional operating losses in the future as we further develop and commercialize our products, including completing clinical trials and seeking regulatory clearances and approvals. If sales of our products do not continue to grow as we anticipate, we will not be able to achieve profitability. Our expansion efforts may prove to be more expensive than we currently anticipate, and we may not succeed in increasing our revenue sufficiently to offset these higher expenses. Our losses have had, and are expected to continue to have, an adverse impact on our working capital, total assets and accumulated deficit.. Our capital needs after the next twelve months are uncertain and we may need to raise additional funds in the future and such funds may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all.. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and investments, along with the cash we expect to generate or use for operations or access via our term loan and revolving line of credit will be sufficient to meet our projected capital requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our Loan and Security Agreement with Silicon Valley Bank (SVB), as amended and restated effective February 23, 2018, provides for a $40,000 term loan and $20,000 revolving line of credit, with an option to increase the revolving line of credit by an additional $20,000. The term loan and revolving credit facility both mature in February 2023. According to the Loan and Security Agreement, principal payments on the term loan are to be made ratably commencing eighteen months after the inception of the loan through the loan's maturity date. If we meet certain conditions, as specified by the agreement, the commencement of term loan principal payments may be deferred by an additional six months. The term loan accrues interest at the greater of the Prime Rate plus 3.75% or 8.25% and is subject to an additional 3.50% fee on the original $40,000 term loan principal amount at maturity. Borrowing availability under the revolving credit facility is based on the lesser of $20,000 or a borrowing base calculation as defined by the Loan and Security Agreement. The applicable borrowing rate on advances outstanding under the revolving credit facility is the greater of the Prime Rate and 4.50%. The Loan and Security Agreement also provides for certain prepayment and early termination fees, as well as establishes a covenant related to sales growth and includes other customary terms and conditions. As of December 31, 2017, we had no borrowings under the revolving credit facility, and we had borrowing availability of $15,000.. The nContact acquisition provided for contingent consideration to be paid upon attaining specified regulatory approvals and clinical and revenue milestones over the next three years. Subject to the terms and conditions of the nContact merger agreement, such. 16. Table of Contents. contingent consideration is paid in AtriCure common stock and cash, with a requirement to make payments in AtriCure common stock first, up to a specified maximum number of shares. Over the next twelve months, we do not expect our cash requirements to include significant payments of contingent consideration based on terms of the acquisition agreement and related milestones. However, we do expect to issue shares in the amount of $7,500 as payment of contingent consideration related to the completion of the trial enrollment milestone in 2018. Significant changes to the estimated consideration to be paid could result in a substantial increase in liabilities for contingent consideration and our accumulated deficit, and reduce our net income or increase our net loss for the year in which the changes occur, which could contribute to difficulty in raising additional funds. The issuance of our stock to nContact shareholders to settle contingent consideration obligations would dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders.. We believe we have adhered to the nContact contract provisions that provide for contingent consideration if the conditions described above are met. It is possible that nContact representatives may dispute our adherence to the contract and pursue a claim for non-adherence which could involve complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. Any such claim, even one without merit or an unsuccessful one, would be time-consuming and expensive to defend and could result in the diversion of our management's attention from our business and result in adverse publicity, the disruption of development and marketing efforts, injury to our reputation and loss of revenue.. If we need to raise additional funds, we cannot be certain that such funds will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Furthermore, if we issue equity securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders will experience dilution, and if we issue equity or debt securities, such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. In addition, if we raise additional funds through collaboration, licensing or other similar arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our future products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to expand our operations, develop new products, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated customer requirements.. We may be unable to comply with the covenants of our Loan Agreement.. Our Loan Agreement with SVB contains a  covenant related to sales growth and other customary terms and conditions. The occurrence of an event of default could result in an increase to the applicable interest rate by 3.0%, an acceleration of all obligations, an obligation to repay all obligations in full and a right by SVB to exercise all remedies available to them. If we are unable to pay those amounts, SVB could proceed against the collateral granted to it pursuant to the Loan Agreement, and we may in turn lose access to our current source of borrowing availability.. Our federal tax net operating loss (NOL) and general business credit carryforwards generated or acquired may expire or will be limited because we experienced an ownership change of more than 50 percent, which could result in greater future income tax expense and adversely impact future cash flows.. On June 30, 2001, we experienced an ownership change as defined by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. Section 382 imposes limitations (Section 382 limitation) on a company's ability to use net operating loss and general business credit carryforwards if a company experiences a more-than-50-percent ownership change over a three-year testing period. Additionally, in connection with acquisitions, additional acquired NOLs are also subject to Section 382 limitation. The Section 382 limitations could limit the availability of our net operating loss and general business credit carryforwards to offset any future taxable income, which may increase our future income tax expense and adversely impact future cash flows. Net operating losses generated prior to 2018 are also subject to expiration under current IRS regulations. We have total federal income tax net operating loss and research and development credit carryforwards that, if not used to reduce our taxable income, will begin to expire in 2021. We have generated or acquired available net operating loss and research and development credit carryforwards of $240,286 and $6,392.. We rely upon single and limited source third-party suppliers and third-party logistics providers, making us vulnerable to supply problems and price fluctuations which could harm our business.. We rely on single and limited source third-party vendors for the manufacture of components used in our products. For example, we rely on one vendor to manufacture several of our RF generators, as well as separate vendors to manufacture our COBRA Fusion Surgical Ablation Systems, EPi-Sense Guided Coagulation System with VisiTrax technology, nContact RF generator and ORLab\231 System. It would be a time consuming and lengthy process to secure these products from an alternative supplier. In addition, in some cases there are relatively few alternative sources of supply for certain other components that are critical to our products. We also rely on a third party to handle our warehousing and logistics functions for European and Middle Eastern markets on our behalf.. Our reliance on outside manufacturers and suppliers also subjects us to risks that could harm our business, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may not be able to obtain adequate supply in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may have difficulty timely locating and qualifying alternative suppliers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tswitching components may require product redesign and new submissions to FDA which could significantly delay production or, if FDA refuses to approve the changes, completely eliminate our ability to manufacture or sell our products;. 17. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour suppliers manufacture products for a range of customers, and fluctuations in demand for the products those suppliers manufacture for others may affect their ability to deliver components to us in a timely manner; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour suppliers may encounter financial hardships unrelated to our demand for components, which could inhibit their ability to fulfill our orders and meet our requirements.. Identifying and qualifying additional or replacement suppliers for any of the components used in our products or a replacement warehousing and logistics provider, if required, may not be accomplished quickly and could involve significant additional costs. Any interruption or delay in the supply of components, materials or warehousing and logistics, or our inability to obtain components or materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers and cause them to cancel orders or switch to competitive products and could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If our goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, it could materially reduce the value of our assets and increase our net loss for the year in which the impairment occurs.. As of December 31, 2017,  we had $105,257 in goodwill related to acquisitions, which represents the purchase price we paid in excess of the fair value of the net assets we acquired. The Financial Accounting Standards Board's (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 350, \"Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets\" requires that goodwill be tested for impairment at least annually (absent any impairment indicators). The testing includes comparing the fair value of each reporting unit with its carrying value. We estimate fair value using several valuation methods, including discounted cash flows, market multiples and market capitalization. Impairment adjustments, if any, are required to be recognized as operating expenses. We may have future impairment adjustments to our recorded goodwill. Any finding that the value of our goodwill has been impaired would require us to record an impairment charge which could materially reduce the value of our assets and reduce our net income or increase our net loss for the year in which the write off occurs and increase our accumulated deficit, which could contribute to difficulty in raising additional funds.. In Process Research and Development (IPR&D) valued at $44,021 was recorded as an intangible asset in connection with the nContact acquisition. If we do not obtain the regulatory approvals that would confirm the technological feasibility of the IPR&D project, or if the IPR&D project is abandoned for any other reason, we would have an impairment adjustment to this asset that would require us to write it off. Additionally, and similar to goodwill, if the IPR&D asset is deemed to be impaired (as a result of the estimated fair value being less than carrying value), we would be required to write off the impaired portion of the IPR&D asset. This would materially reduce the value of our assets and reduce our net income or increase our net loss for the year in which the write off occurs and increase our accumulated deficit, which could contribute to difficulty in raising additional funds.. An inability to forecast future revenue or estimate life cycles of products may result in inventory-related charges that would negatively affect our gross margins and results of operations.. To mitigate the risk of supply interruptions, we may choose to maintain excess inventory of our products or component parts. Managing our inventory levels is important to our cash position and results of operations and is challenging in the current economic environment. As we grow and expand our product offerings, managing our inventory levels becomes more difficult, particularly as we expand into new product areas and bring product enhancements to market. While we rely on our personnel and information technology systems for inventory management to effectively manage accounting and financial functions, our personnel and information technology systems may fail to adequately perform these functions or may experience an interruption. An excessive amount of inventory reduces our cash available for operations and may result in excess or obsolete materials. Conversely, inadequate inventory levels may make it difficult for us to meet customer product demand, resulting in decreased revenue. An inability to forecast future revenue or estimated life cycles of products may result in inventory-related charges that would negatively affect our gross margins and results of operations and increase our accumulated deficit, any of which could contribute to difficulty in raising additional funds.. If we or our third-party vendors fail to comply with extensive FDA regulations relating to the manufacturing of our products or any component part, we may be subject to fines, injunctions and penalties, and our ability to commercially distribute and sell our products may be hurt.. Our manufacturing facility and the manufacturing facility of any of our third-party component manufacturers, critical suppliers or third-party sterilization facility are required to comply with FDA's Quality System Regulation (QSR) which sets forth minimum standards for the procedures, execution and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of the products we sell. FDA may evaluate our compliance with the QSR, among other ways, through periodic announced or unannounced inspections which could disrupt our operations and interrupt our manufacturing. If in conducting an inspection of our manufacturing facility or the manufacturing facility of any of our third-party component manufacturers, critical suppliers or third-party sterilization facility, an FDA investigator observes conditions or practices believed to violate the QSR, the investigator may document their observations on a Form FDA-483 that is issued at the conclusion of the inspection. A manufacturer that receives an FDA-483 may respond in writing and explain any corrective actions taken in response to the inspectional observations. FDA will typically review the facility's written response and may re-inspect to determine the facility's compliance with the QSR and other applicable regulatory requirements. Failure to take adequate and timely corrective actions to. 18. Table of Contents. remedy objectionable conditions listed on an FDA-483 could result in FDA taking administrative or enforcement actions. Among these may be FDA's issuance of a Warning Letter to a manufacturer, which informs it that FDA considers the observed violations to be of \"regulatory significance\" that, if not corrected, could result in further enforcement action. FDA enforcement actions, which include seizure, injunction and criminal prosecution, could result in total or partial suspension of a facility's production and/or distribution, product recalls, fines, suspension of FDA's review of product applications and FDA's issuance of adverse publicity. Thus, an adverse inspection could force a shutdown of our manufacturing operations or a recall of our products. Adverse inspections could also delay FDA approval of our products and could have an adverse effect on our production, sales and profitability.. We and any of our third-party vendors may also encounter other problems during manufacturing including failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, equipment malfunction and environmental factors, any of which could delay or impede our ability to meet demand. The manufacture of our product also subjects us to risks that could harm our business, including problems relating to the sterilization of our products or facilities and errors in manufacturing components that could negatively affect the efficacy or safety of our products or cause delays in shipment of our products. Any interruption or delay in the manufacture of the product or any of its components could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers and cause them to cancel orders or switch to competitive products and could, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we fail to comply with the extensive FDA regulations relating to our business, we may be subject to fines, injunctions and penalties, and our ability to commercially distribute and promote our products may be hurt.. Our products are classified by FDA as medical devices and, as such, are subject to extensive regulation in the United States by FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. FDA regulations, guidance, notices and other issuances specific to medical devices are broad and regulate numerous aspects of our business.. Compliance with FDA, state and other regulations can be complex, expensive and time-consuming. FDA and other authorities have broad enforcement powers. Furthermore, changes in the applicable governmental regulations could prevent further commercialization of our products and technologies and could materially harm our business.. If a serious failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements was determined, it could result in enforcement action by FDA or other state or federal agencies, including the DOJ, which may include any of the following sanctions, among others:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twarning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trepair, replacement, refunds, recall or seizure of our products;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\toperating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsuspension or termination of our clinical trials;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trefusing or delaying our pending requests for 510(k) clearance or PMAs, new intended uses or modifications to existing products;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twithdrawing 510(k) clearance or PMAs that have already been granted; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcriminal prosecution.. If any of these events were to occur, we could lose customers and our production, product sales, business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed.. We are also subject to medical device reporting regulations that require us to file reports with FDA if our products may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or, in the event of product malfunction, that if such malfunction were to recur, would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. There have been incidents, including patient deaths, which have occurred during or following procedures using our products that we have not, and believe were not required to be, reported to FDA because we determined that our products did not cause or contribute to the outcomes in these incidents. If FDA disagrees with us, however, and determines that we should have submitted reports for these adverse events, we could be subject to significant regulatory fines or other penalties. In addition, the number of medical device reports we make, or the magnitude of the problems reported, could cause FDA or us to terminate or modify our clinical trials or recall or cease the sale of our products, and could hurt commercial acceptance of our products and harm our reputation with customers.. Modifications to our products may require new clearances or approvals or may require us to cease promoting or to recall the modified products until such clearances or approvals are obtained and FDA may not agree with our conclusions regarding whether new clearances or approvals were required.. Any modification to a 510(k)-cleared device that would constitute a change in its intended use, design or manufacture could require a new or supplemental 510(k) clearance or, possibly, submission and FDA approval of a PMA. FDA requires every medical device company to make the determination as to whether a 510(k) must be filed, but FDA may review any medical device company's decision. We have made modifications to our products and concluded that such modifications did not require us to submit a 510(k). FDA may not agree with our decisions regarding whether submissions were required.. 19. Table of Contents. If FDA were to disagree with us and require us to submit a 510(k),  PMA or a PMA supplement for then-existing modifications, we could be required to cease promoting or to recall the modified product until we obtain clearance or approval. In addition, we could be subject to significant regulatory fines or other penalties. Furthermore, our products could be subject to recall if FDA determines, for any reason, that our products are not safe or effective or that appropriate regulatory submissions were not made. Delays in receipt or failure to receive clearances or approvals, the loss of previously received clearances or approvals or the failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could reduce our sales, profitability and future growth prospects.. We spend considerable time and money complying with federal, state and foreign regulations in addition to FDA regulations, and, if we are unable to fully comply with such regulations, we could face substantial penalties.. We are subject to extensive regulation by the federal government and foreign countries in which we conduct business. The laws that affect our ability to operate our business in addition to the FDCA and FDA regulations include, but are not limited to, the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tstate consumer protection, fraud and business practice laws;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce either the referral of an individual, or furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid Programs;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe Federal False Claims Act, which prohibits submitting a false claim or causing of the submission of a false claim to the government;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tMedicare laws and regulations that prescribe the requirements for coverage and payment, including the amount of such payment, and laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement under Medicare and Medicaid;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tstate laws that prohibit the practice of medicine by non-doctors and by doctors not licensed in a particular state, and fee-splitting arrangements between doctors and non-doctors, as well as state law equivalents to the Anti-Kickback Statute and the Stark Law, which may not be limited to government-reimbursed items;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfederal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws or laws protecting the privacy of patient medical information, including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) which protects medical records and other personal health information by limiting their use and disclosure, giving individuals the right to access, amend and seek accounting reasonably necessary to accomplish the intended purpose;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe Federal Trade Commission Act and similar laws regulating advertising and consumer protection; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsimilar and other regulations outside the United States.. Healthcare fraud and abuse regulations are complex, and even minor, inadvertent irregularities can potentially give rise to claims that a law has been violated. Any violations of these laws could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, if we were found to be in violation of the Federal False Claims Act, we would likely face significant fines and penalties and would likely be required to change substantially our sales, promotion, grant and educational activities. There is also a possibility that we could face an injunction that would prohibit in whole or in part our current business activities, and, as a result of enforcement actions against us or our senior officers, we could be excluded from participation in government healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. If there is a change in law, regulation or administrative or judicial interpretations, we may have to change our business practices or our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or the other governmental regulations to which we, our distributors or our customers are subject, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other government programs and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. If we are required to obtain permits or licensure under these laws that we do not already possess, we may become subject to substantial additional regulation or incur significant expense. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations would adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully or clearly interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are subject to a variety of interpretations and additional legal or regulatory change. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management's attention from the operation of our business and damage our reputation.. Adverse changes in payors' policies toward coverage and reimbursement for surgical procedures would harm our ability to promote and sell our products.. Third-party payors are increasingly exerting pressure on medical device companies to reduce their prices. Even to the extent that the use of our products is reimbursed by private payors and governmental payors, adverse changes in payors' policies toward coverage and reimbursement for surgical procedures would also harm our ability to promote and sell our products. Payors continue to review their policies and can, without notice, deny coverage for treatments that include the use of our products. Because each third-party. 20. Table of Contents. payor individually approves coverage and reimbursement, obtaining these approvals may be time-consuming and costly. In addition, third-party payors may require us to provide scientific and clinical support for the use of our products. Adverse changes in coverage and reimbursement for surgical procedures could harm our business and reduce our revenue.. FDA does not regulate the practice of medicine. Physicians may use our products in circumstances where they deem it medically appropriate, such as for the treatment of Afib or the reduction in stroke risk, even though FDA may not have approved or cleared our products to be marketed specifically for those indications. Some payors may deem the use of our products for indications not specifically approved or cleared by FDA to be experimental and, as such, may deny coverage or payment. Often times, these denials can be overcome through an appeals process, but there is no guarantee of success in these cases.. We have traditionally had limited long-term clinical data regarding the safety and efficacy of our products. Any long-term data that is generated may not be positive or consistent with our limited short-term data, which would affect the rate at which our products are adopted by the medical community.. Important factors upon which the efficacy of our products will be measured include long-term data on the number of patients that experience Afib or stroke following treatment with our products and the number of patients that have serious complications resulting from ablations or LAA occlusion using our products. While we believe we are now well-positioned to provide sufficient long-term data regarding the safety and efficacy of our products, such data could identify unexpected safety issues. We cannot provide any assurance that the data collected during our clinical trials will be compelling to the medical community because it may not be scientifically meaningful and may not demonstrate that procedures utilizing our products are an attractive option when compared against data from alternative procedures and products. Negative long-term data would affect the use of our products and harm our business and prospects.. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in declines in our reported sales and results of operations.. Because some of our international sales are denominated in local currencies and not in U.S. Dollars, our reported sales and earnings are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily the Euro and British Pound. We translate results of transactions denominated in local currencies into U.S. Dollars using market conversion rates applicable to the period in which the transaction is reported. As a result, changes in exchange rates during a period can unpredictably and adversely affect our consolidated operating results and our asset and liability balances, even if the underlying value of the item in its original currency has not changed. At present, we do not hedge our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. As a result, sales and expenses occurring in the future that are denominated in foreign currencies may be translated into U.S. Dollars at less favorable rates, resulting in reduced revenues and earnings.. Our manufacturing operations are primarily conducted at a single location, and any disruption at our manufacturing facility could increase our expenses and decrease our revenue.. Our manufacturing operations are conducted at a single location in Ohio. While we take precautions at this location, we do not maintain a backup manufacturing facility, making us dependent on our current facility for the continued operation of our business. A natural or other disaster could damage or destroy our manufacturing equipment and cause substantial delays in our manufacturing operations, which could lead to additional expense and decreased revenue due to lack of supply. The insurance we maintain may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case. With or without insurance, damage to our facility or our other property due to a natural disaster or casualty event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on independent distributors to market and sell our products in certain markets outside of the United States, and a failure of our independent distributors to successfully market our products or any disruption in their ability to do so may adversely impact our sales.. We depend on third-party distributors to sell our products in certain markets outside of the United States, and if these distributors do not perform, we may be unable to maintain or increase our level of international revenue. Over the long term, we intend to continue to grow our business outside of the United States. To do so we will need to attract additional distributors or hire direct sales personnel to expand the territories in which we sell our products. Independent distributors may terminate their relationship with us or devote insufficient sales efforts to our products. We are not able to control our independent distributors, and they may not be successful in implementing our marketing plans. In addition, many of our independent distributors outside of the United States initially obtain and maintain foreign regulatory approval for sale of our products in their respective countries. Our failure to maintain our relationships with our independent distributors outside of the United States, or our failure to recruit and retain additional skilled independent distributors in these locations, could have an adverse effect on our operations. Turnover among our independent distributors, even if replaced, may adversely affect our short-term financial results while we transition to new independent distributors or direct sales personnel. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates including any strengthening of the U.S. dollar may cause our independent sales distributors to seek longer payment terms to offset the higher prices they are paying in local currency for our products. The ability of these third-party distributors to market and sell our products could also be adversely affected by unexpected events, including, but not limited to, power failures, nuclear events, natural or other disasters and war or terrorist activities. In addition, in light of the worldwide economic crisis, the ability of our distributors to borrow money from their existing lenders or to obtain credit from other sources to purchase our products may be impaired or our distributors could experience a significant change in. 21. Table of Contents. their liquidity or financial condition, all of which could impair their ability to distribute our products and eventually lead to distributor turnover.. If coverage and adequate levels of reimbursement from governmental and third-party payors outside of the United States are not obtained and maintained, sales of our products outside of the United States may decrease and we may fail to achieve or maintain significant sales outside of the United States.. Our revenue generated from sales outside of the United States is also dependent upon the availability of coverage and reimbursement within prevailing foreign healthcare payment systems. Foreign healthcare payors generally do not provide the same level of reimbursement for sole-therapy minimally invasive procedures utilizing ablation devices and related products as payors in the United States. In addition, healthcare cost containment efforts similar to those we face in the United States are prevalent in many of the other countries in which we sell our products, and these efforts are expected to continue. To the extent that the use of ablation devices such as our Isolator Synergy system has historically received reimbursement under a foreign healthcare payment system, such reimbursement, if any, has typically been significantly less than the reimbursement provided in the United States. If coverage and adequate levels of reimbursement from governmental and third-party payors outside of the United States are not obtained and maintained, sales of our products outside of the United States may decrease and we may fail to achieve or maintain significant sales outside of the United States.. If we fail to properly manage our anticipated growth, our business could suffer.. We may experience periods of rapid growth and expansion, which could place a significant strain on our personnel, information technology systems and other resources. In particular, the increase in our direct sales force requires significant management and other supporting resources. Any failure by us to manage our growth effectively could have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve our development and commercialization goals.. To achieve our revenue goals, we must successfully increase production output as required by customer demand. In the future, we may experience difficulties in increasing production, including problems with production yields and quality control, component supply and shortages of qualified personnel. These problems could result in delays in product availability and increases in expenses. Any such delay or increased expense could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues.. Future growth will also impose significant added responsibilities on management, including the need to identify, recruit, train and integrate additional employees. In addition, rapid and significant growth will place a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure.. In order to manage our operations and growth, we will need to continue to improve our operational and management controls, reporting and information technology systems and financial internal control procedures. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, it may be difficult for us to execute our business strategy and our operating results and business could suffer.. We depend on our officers and other skilled and experienced personnel to operate our business effectively. If we are not able to retain our current employees or recruit additional qualified personnel, our business will suffer and our future revenue and profitability will be impaired.. We are highly dependent on the skills and experience of our President and Chief Executive Officer, Michael H. Carrel, and certain other officers and key employees. We do not have any insurance in the event of the death or disability of our key personnel. Our officers and key employees, with the exception of our President and Chief Executive Officer and Senior Vice President, Operations, do not have employment agreements and they may terminate their employment and work elsewhere without notice and without cause or good reason. Currently we have non-compete agreements with our officers and other employees. Due to the specialized knowledge of each of our officers with respect to our products and our operations and the limited pool of people with relevant experience in the medical device field, the loss of service of one or more of these individuals could significantly affect our ability to operate and manage our business. The announcement of the loss of one or more of our key personnel could negatively affect our stock price.. We depend on our scientific and technical personnel for successful product development and innovation, which are critical to the success of our business. In addition, to succeed in the implementation of our business strategy, our management team must rapidly execute our sales strategy, obtain expanded FDA clearances and approvals, achieve market acceptance for our products and further develop products, while managing anticipated growth by implementing effective planning, manufacturing and operating processes. Managing this growth will require us to attract and retain additional management and technical personnel. We rely primarily on direct sales employees to sell our products in the United States and failure to adequately train them in the use and benefits of our products will prevent us from achieving our market share and revenue growth goals. We have key relationships with physicians that involve procedure, product, market and clinical development. If any of these physicians end their relationship with us, our business could be negatively impacted. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain the personnel and physician relationships necessary to grow and expand our business and operations. If we fail to identify, attract, retain and motivate these highly skilled personnel and physicians, we may be unable to continue our development and sales activities.. 22. Table of Contents. Our business growth strategy involves the potential for significant acquisitions, which involve risks and difficulties in integrating potential acquisitions and may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. All acquisitions involve inherent uncertainties, which may include, among other things, our ability to:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsuccessfully identify targets for acquisition;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnegotiate reasonable terms;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tproperly perform due diligence and determine all the significant risks associated with a particular acquisition;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tproperly evaluate target company management capabilities; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsuccessfully transition and integrate the acquired company into our business and achieve the desired performance.. We may acquire businesses with unknown liabilities, contingent liabilities or internal control deficiencies. We have plans and procedures in place to conduct reviews of potential acquisition candidates for compliance with applicable regulations and laws prior to acquisition. Despite these efforts, realization of any of these liabilities or deficiencies may increase our expenses, adversely affect our financial position through the initiation, pendency or outcome of litigation or otherwise, or cause us to fail to meet our public financial reporting obligations.. We have consummated two significant acquisitions in the past five years and in the future may continue to invest a substantial amount of capital in acquisitions. We continue to evaluate potential acquisition opportunities to support, strengthen and grow our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to locate suitable acquisition candidates, acquire possible acquisition candidates, acquire such candidates on commercially reasonable terms, or integrate acquired businesses successfully in the future. In addition, any governmental review or investigation of our proposed acquisitions, such as by the Federal Trade Commission, may impede, limit or prevent us from proceeding with an acquisition. Future acquisitions may require us to incur additional debt and contingent liabilities, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The process of integrating acquired businesses into our existing operations may result in operating, contract and supply chain difficulties, such as the failure to retain customers or management personnel. Such difficulties may divert significant financial, operational and managerial resources from our existing operations and make it more difficult to achieve our operating and strategic objectives.. Disruptions of critical information systems or material breaches in the security of our systems could harm our business, customer relations and financial condition.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees in our data centers and on our networks. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, regulatory penalties, disrupt our operations and the services we provide to customers, and damage our reputation and cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, which could adversely affect our business, operating margins, revenues and competitive position.. We also rely in part on information technology to store information, interface with customers, maintain financial accuracy, secure our data and accurately produce our financial statements. If our information technology systems do not effectively and securely collect, store, process and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies, human error or cyber incident, our ability to effectively plan, forecast and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations would be materially impaired. Any such impairment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and the timeliness with which we report our operating results.. We are subject to credit risk from our accounts receivable related to our product sales, which include sales to countries outside the United States that may experience economic turmoil.. The majority of our accounts receivable arise from product sales in the United States. However, we also have significant receivable balances from customers within the European Union, Asia and other regions. Our accounts receivable in the United States are primarily due from public and private hospitals. Our accounts receivable outside the United States are primarily due from public and private hospitals and from independent distributors. Our historical write-offs of accounts receivable have not been significant. We monitor the financial performance and credit worthiness of our customers so that we can properly assess and respond to changes in their credit profile. Our independent distributors and sub-dealers operate in certain countries where economic conditions continue to present challenges to their businesses, and, thus, could place in risk the amounts due to us from them. These distributors are owed amounts from public hospitals that are funded by their governments. Adverse financial conditions in these countries may negatively affect the length of time that it will take us to collect associated accounts receivable or impact the likelihood of ultimate collection.. 23. Table of Contents. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations could subject us to significant liability.. Our manufacturing operations and research and development activities involve the use of biological materials and hazardous substances and are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations relating to the storage, use, discharge, disposal, remediation of and human exposure to hazardous substances. Our research and development and manufacturing operations may produce biological waste materials, such as animal tissues and certain chemical waste. These operations are permitted by regulatory authorities, and the resultant waste materials are disposed of in compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Compliance with these laws and regulations may be expensive, and non-compliance could result in substantial liabilities. In addition, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury to third parties from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could exceed any applicable insurance coverage we may have. Our manufacturing operations may result in the release, discharge, emission or disposal of hazardous substances that could cause us to incur substantial liabilities, including costs for investigation and remediation. We believe we are in compliance with such laws and regulations.. The results of the United Kingdom's referendum on withdrawal from the European Union may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business.. In June 2016, a majority of voters in the United Kingdom elected to withdraw from the European Union, or the EU, in a national referendum. The referendum was advisory, and the terms of any withdrawal are subject to a negotiation period that could last at least two years after the government of the United Kingdom formally initiates a withdrawal process. Nevertheless, the referendum has created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the EU, including with respect to the laws and regulations that will apply as the United Kingdom determines which EU laws to replace or replicate in the event of a withdrawal. The referendum has also given rise to calls for the governments of other EU member states to consider withdrawal. These developments, or the perception that any of them could occur, have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets, and may significantly reduce global market liquidity and restrict the ability of key market participants to operate in certain financial markets. Any of these factors could depress economic activity and restrict our access to capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and reduce the price of our common stock.. Our effective income tax rate may fluctuate, which may adversely affect our operations, earnings and earnings per share.. Our effective income tax rate is influenced by our projected profitability in the various taxing jurisdictions in which we operate. The global nature of our business increases our tax risks. In addition, revenue authorities in many of the jurisdictions in which we operate are known to have become more active in their tax collection activities. Changes in the distribution of profits and losses among taxing jurisdictions may have a significant impact on our effective income tax rate, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our net income and earnings per share. The application of tax laws in various taxing jurisdictions, including the United States, is subject to interpretation, and tax authorities in various jurisdictions may have diverging and sometimes conflicting interpretations of the application of tax laws. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings, in the United States or other tax jurisdictions in which we operate, could materially impact our effective tax rate.. Factors that may affect our effective income tax rate include, but are not limited to:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe requirement to exclude from our quarterly worldwide effective income tax calculations losses in jurisdictions where no income tax benefit can be recognized;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactual and projected full year pre-tax income, including differences between actual and anticipated income before taxes in various jurisdictions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in tax laws, or in the interpretation or application of tax laws, in various taxing jurisdictions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in the relative mix and staffing levels in various tax jurisdictions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\taudits or other challenges by taxing authorities; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe establishment of valuation allowances against a portion or all of certain deferred income tax assets if we determined that it is more likely than not that future income tax benefits will not be realized.. These changes may cause fluctuations in our effective income tax rate that could adversely affect our results of operations and cause fluctuations in our earnings and earnings per share.. Governmental authorities may question our intercompany transfer pricing policies or change their laws in a manner that could increase our effective tax rate or otherwise harm our business.. As a U.S. company doing business in international markets through subsidiaries, we are subject to foreign tax and intercompany pricing laws, including those relating to the flow of funds between the parent and subsidiaries. Tax authorities in the United States and. 24. Table of Contents. in foreign markets closely monitor our corporate structure and how we account for intercompany fund transfers. If tax authorities challenge our corporate structure, transfer pricing mechanisms or intercompany transfers, our operations may be negatively impacted and our effective tax rate may increase. Tax rates vary from country to country and if regulators determine that our profits in one jurisdiction should be increased, we might not be able to fully utilize all foreign tax credits that are generated, which would increase our effective tax rate. Additionally, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, has issued certain proposed guidelines regarding base erosion and profit sharing. Once these guidelines are formally adopted by the OECD, it is possible that separate taxing jurisdictions may also adopt some form of these guidelines. In such case, we may need to change our approach to intercompany transfer pricing in order to maintain compliance under the new rules. Our effective tax rate may increase or decrease depending on the current location of global operations at the time of the change. Finally, we might not always be in compliance with all applicable customs, exchange control, Value Added Tax and transfer pricing laws despite our efforts to be aware of and to comply with such laws. In such case, we may need to adjust our operating procedures and our business could be adversely affected.. Due to the global nature of our business, we may be exposed to liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and various other anti-corruption laws, and any allegation or determination that we violated these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are required to comply with the FCPA, UK Bribery Act of 2010 and other U.S. and foreign anti-corruption laws, which prohibit companies from engaging in bribery including corruptly or improperly offering, promising, or providing money or anything else of value to foreign officials and certain other recipients. In addition, the FCPA imposes certain books, records and accounting control obligations on public companies and other issuers. We operate in parts of the world in which corruption can be common and compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Our global operations face the risk of unauthorized payments or offers being made by employees, consultants, sales agents and other business partners outside of our control or without our authorization. It is our policy to implement safeguards (including mandatory training) to prohibit these practices by our employees and business partners with respect to our operations. However, irrespective of these safeguards, or as a result of monitoring compliance with such safeguards, it is possible that we or certain other parties may discover or receive information at some point that certain employees, consultants, sales agents, or other business partners may have engaged in corrupt conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA or other foreign anti-corruption laws may result in restatements of, or irregularities in, our financial statements as well as severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In some cases, companies that violate the FCPA may be debarred by the U.S. government and/or lose their U.S. export privileges. Changes in anti-corruption laws or enforcement priorities could also result in increased compliance requirements and related costs which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the U.S. or other governments may seek to hold us liable for successor liability FCPA violations or violations of other anti-corruption laws committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquired or will acquire.. Our insurance may not cover all of our indemnification obligations and other liabilities associated with our operations.. We maintain insurance designed to provide coverage for ordinary risks associated with our operations and our ordinary indemnification obligations, which we believe to be customary for our industry. The coverage provided by such insurance may not be adequate for all claims we may make or may be contested by our insurance carriers. If our insurance is not adequate or available to pay liabilities associated with our operations, or if we are unable to purchase adequate insurance at reasonable rates in the future, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may be materially adversely impacted.. Risks Relating To Our Common Stock. The price and trading volume of our common stock may experience extreme fluctuations and our stockholders could lose some or all of their investment.. Because we operate within the medical device segment of the healthcare industry, our stock price is likely to be volatile. The market price of our common stock may have and has had a history of substantial fluctuation due to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tvariations in our quarterly financial and operating results;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tphysician and patient acceptance of the surgical treatment of Afib or exclusion of the LAA using our products;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadverse regulatory developments with respect to our products, such as recalls, new regulatory requirements, changes in regulatory requirements or guidance and timing of regulatory clearances and approvals for new products;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcoverage and reimbursement determinations for our products and the related procedures;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe timing of orders received;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdelays or interruptions in manufacturing or shipping of our products;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpricing of our products;. 25. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmedia reports, publications or announcements about products or new innovations that could compete with our products or about the medical device product segment in general;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinvestigations, claims or allegations by regulatory agencies, such as the Department of Justice and Financial Industry Regulatory Authority;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmarket conditions or trends related to the medical device and healthcare industries or the market in general;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadditions to or departures of our key personnel;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdisputes, litigation or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in financial estimates, investors' perceptions or recommendations by securities analysts;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfailure to achieve or maintain an effective healthcare compliance environment;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in accounting principles; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfailure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment.. These factors, some of which are not within our control, may cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially. If our quarterly or annual operating results fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could drop suddenly and significantly. We believe the quarterly and annual comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance.. The market prices of the securities of medical device companies, particularly companies like ours without consistent product revenue and earnings, have been highly volatile and are likely to remain highly volatile in the future. This volatility has often been unrelated to the operating performance of these particular companies. In the past, companies that experience volatility in the market price of their securities have often faced securities class action litigation. Whether or not meritorious, litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs, divert our management's attention and resources and harm our ability to grow our business.. We may be obligated to issue additional shares of our common stock to the former stockholders of nContact as a result of our satisfaction of certain milestones set forth in the merger agreement with nContact and the other parties thereto, resulting in stock ownership dilution.. Under the terms of the merger agreement with nContact and the other parties thereto, we agreed to issue additional shares of our common stock, or make payments in cash, to the former stockholders of nContact as contingent consideration upon our satisfaction of milestones described in the merger agreement. Issuing additional shares of our common stock to the former stockholders of nContact in satisfaction of contingent consideration dilutes the ownership interests of holders of our common stock on the dates of such issuances. If we are unable to realize the strategic, operational and financial benefits anticipated from our acquisition of nContact, our stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interests in our company upon any such future issuances of shares of our common stock without receiving any commensurate benefit.. The sale of material amounts of common stock could encourage short sales by third parties and depress the price of our common stock. As a result, our stockholders may lose all or part of their investment.. The downward pressure on our stock price caused by the sale of a significant number of shares of our common stock or the perception that such sales could occur by any of our significant stockholders could cause our stock price to decline, thus allowing short sellers of our stock an opportunity to take advantage of any decrease in the value of our stock. The presence of short sellers in our common stock may further depress the price of our common stock.. Sales of common stock by us in a capital raising transaction may dilute stockholder ownership of common stock and cause a decline in the market price of our common stock.. We may need to raise capital in the future to fund our operations or new initiatives or reduce or pay in full our indebtedness. If we raise funds by issuing equity securities, our stock price may decline and our existing stockholders may experience significant dilution. Furthermore, we may enter into capital raising transactions at prices that represent a substantial discount to market price. A negative reaction by investors and securities analysts to any sale of our equity securities could result in a decline in the trading price of our common stock.. Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and under Delaware law could inhibit a change in control or a change in management that stockholders consider favorable.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could delay or prevent a change of control or change in management that would provide a premium to the market price of common stock. These provisions include those:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tauthorizing the issuance without further approval of \"blank check\" preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt;. 26. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimiting the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of stockholders; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\testablishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings.. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law limits business combination transactions with 15% stockholders that have not been approved by our board of directors. These provisions and others could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, or for members of our board of directors to be replaced, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. Because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could, in turn, affect any attempt to replace the current management team. If a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, stockholders may lose an opportunity to realize a premium on shares of common stock or the market price of our common stock could decline.. We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, stockholders must rely on stock appreciation for any return on investment.. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends will also depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and other factors and will be at the discretion of our board of directors. Accordingly, stockholders will have to rely on capital appreciation, if any, to earn a return on investment in our common stock. Furthermore, pursuant to our credit facility, we are currently subject to restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and we may in the future become subject to other contractual restrictions on, or prohibitions against, the payment of dividends.. Securities analysts may not continue, or additional securities analysts may not initiate, coverage for our common stock or may issue negative reports. This may have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock.. Several securities analysts provide research coverage of our common stock. Some analysts have already published statements that do not portray our technology, products or procedures using our products in a positive light and others may do so in the future. If we are unable to educate those who publicize such reports about the benefits we believe our business provides, or if one or more of the analysts who elects to cover us downgrades our stock, our stock price would likely decline rapidly. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. The trading market for our common stock may be affected in part by the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. If sufficient securities analysts do not cover our common stock, the lack of research coverage may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. It may be difficult for companies such as ours, with smaller market capitalizations, to attract and maintain sufficient independent financial analysts that will cover our common stock. This could have a negative effect on the market price of our stock.. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and distract management.. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley Act).  We are also subject to certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (Dodd-Frank Act). The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight is required. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the SEC to adopt certain rules and regulations relating to our public disclosures, corporate governance and executive compensation, among other things, and such rules and regulations require significant attention from management. Compliance with all of these laws, rules and regulations may from time to time divert management's attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The SEC has adopted rules regarding the disclosure of the use of conflict minerals (commonly referred to as tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold) which are mined from the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and neighboring countries. Under the rules, we are required to disclose the procedures we employ to determine the sourcing of such minerals and metals produced from those minerals. The requirements require due diligence efforts and could affect the sourcing of components used in our products. If the conflict minerals included in our products are found to be sourced from the DRC or surrounding countries, we may take actions to change materials or product designs to reduce the possibility that our purchase of conflict minerals may fund armed groups in the region. These actions could add engineering and other costs to the manufacture of our products. We expect to continue to incur costs in the investigation of the origin of the conflict minerals used in our products and in the reporting of the findings of our investigation.. 27. Table of Contents. Our reputation may suffer if we have included conflict minerals in our products that are found to have funded armed groups in the DRC region.. <U+FEFF>"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
