[1] "ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risks, together with other matters described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated herein by reference in evaluating our business and prospects. If any of the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition and/or operating results could be harmed. In such case, the trading price of our securities could decline, in some cases significantly. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations.. Risks Related to the Growth of Our Business. The Company must continually offer new products and services. We sell our products and services in industries that are characterized by rapid and significant technological changes, frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements, and evolving industry standards. Our success depends in large part on continuous, timely and cost-effective development and introduction of new products and services as well as improvements to our existing products and services, which address these evolving market requirements and are attractive to customers. For example, if the Company does not appropriately innovate and invest in new technologies, then our technologies will become dated and our customers could move to new technologies offered by our competitors and we could lose our competitive position in the markets that we serve.. These facts require us to make appropriate investments in the development and identification of new technologies and products and services. As a result, we are continually looking to develop, license and acquire new technologies and products and services to further broaden and deepen our already broad product and service line. Once we have developed or obtained a new technology, to the extent that we fail to introduce new and innovative products and services that are accepted by our markets, we may not obtain an adequate return on our research and development, licensing and acquisition investments and could lose revenue opportunities to our competitors, which would be difficult to regain and could seriously damage our business. Some of the factors affecting customer acceptance of our products and services include:. <U+0095>    availability, quality and price as compared to competitive products and services;. <U+0095>    the functionality of new and existing products and services, and their conformity to industry standards and regulatory standards that may be applicable to our customers;. <U+0095>    the timing of introduction of our products and services as compared to competitive products and services;. <U+0095>    scientists' and customers' opinions of the product's or services' utility and our ability to incorporate their feedback into future products and services;. <U+0095>    reimbursement for molecular diagnostic products and lab-developed tests;. <U+0095>    the extent to which new products and services are within the scope of our proven expertise;. 11. Table of Contents. <U+0095>    citation of the products and services in published research; and. <U+0095>    general trends in life sciences research and life science informatics software development.. The Company's future growth depends in part on our ability to acquire new products, services, and technologies through additional acquisitions, which may absorb significant resources and may not be successful. As part of the Company's strategy to develop and identify new products, services, and technologies, we have made, and continue to make, acquisitions and investments. Acquiring and integrating the operations of such businesses requires significant efforts, the initial outlay of capital and resources as well as the coordination of information technologies, research and development, sales and marketing, operations, manufacturing and finance. These efforts result in additional expenses and divert management's time from other projects. Our failure to manage successfully the growth of the acquired company could also have an adverse impact on our business. In addition, there is no guarantee that some of the businesses we acquire will become profitable or remain so. If our acquisitions do not reach our initial expectations, we may record unexpected impairment charges. Our acquisitions involve a number of risks and financial, managerial and operational challenges, including the following, any of which could cause significant operating inefficiencies and adversely affect our growth and profitability:. <U+0095>    any acquired business, technology, service or product could under-perform relative to our expectations and the price that the Company paid for it;. <U+0095>    the Company could experience difficulty in integrating personnel, operations and financial and other systems;. <U+0095>    the Company could have difficulty in retaining key managers and other employees of the acquired company;. <U+0095>    acquisition-related earnings charges could adversely impact operating results;. <U+0095>    acquisitions could place unanticipated demands on the Company's management, operational resources and financial and internal control systems;. <U+0095>    the Company may be unable to achieve cost savings anticipated in connection with the integration of an acquired business;. <U+0095>    in an acquisition, the Company may assume contingent liabilities that prove greater than anticipated, or deficiencies in internal controls, and the realization of any of these liabilities or deficiencies may increase our expenses and adversely affect the Company's financial position; and. <U+0095>    the Company may have disagreements or disputes with the prior owners of an acquired business, technology, service or product that may result in litigation and/or resolution expenses and a distraction of our management's attention.. In addition, we face additional risks related to international acquisitions, including risks related to cultural and language differences and particular economic, currency, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. If an acquired business fails to operate as anticipated or cannot be successfully integrated with our existing businesses, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. The Company may not successfully manage its current and future divestitures, and, as a result, may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of such divestitures. We continually evaluate the performance and strategic fit of our businesses and may decide to sell a business, product line or technology based on such an evaluation. Divestitures could involve additional risks, including the following:. <U+0095>    difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel;. <U+0095>    the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns;. 12. Table of Contents. <U+0095>    the need to agree to retain or assume certain current or future liabilities in order to complete the divestiture;. <U+0095>    the disruption of our business; and. <U+0095>    the potential loss of key employees.. Any divestitures may result in significant write-offs, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies at acceptable prices and terms and in a timely manner. We may not be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that we encounter in divesting a business or product line, and, as a result, may not achieve the expected benefits of the divestiture.. The Company faces significant competition. The markets for our products and services are very competitive and price sensitive. Our competitors, which could include some of our customers (such as large pharmaceutical companies) have significant financial, operational, sales and marketing resources, and experience in research and development. Our competitors could develop new technologies that compete with our products and services or even render our products and services obsolete. If a competitor develops superior technology or cost-effective alternatives to our products and services, our business could be seriously harmed.. The markets for some of our products are also subject to specific competitive risks. These markets are highly price competitive. Our competitors have competed in the past by lowering prices on certain products. If they do so again, we may be forced to respond by lowering our prices and thereby reducing our revenues and profits. Failure to anticipate and respond to price competition may hurt our competitive position.. The Company believes that customers in our markets display a significant amount of loyalty to their initial supplier of a particular product. Therefore, it may be difficult to generate sales to potential customers who have purchased products from competitors. Additionally, there are numerous scientists making materials themselves instead of using kits or reagents that we supply. To the extent we are unable to be the first to develop and supply new products, customers may buy from our competitors or make materials themselves, causing our competitive position to suffer.. Consolidation trends in both our market and that of our customers have increased competition. There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for the past several years. We expect this trend toward industry consolidation to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. We believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. This could lead to more variability in operating results and could harm our business.. Additionally, there has been a trend toward consolidation among our customers, notably, in the pharmaceutical industry. Consolidation in our customer markets results in increased competition for important market segments and fewer available accounts. Larger consolidated customers may be able to exert increased pricing pressure on us.. Adverse conditions in the global economy and disruption of financial markets may significantly harm our revenue, profitability and results of operations. The global economy has experienced a period of significant economic downturn. Continued or worsening economic conditions in the businesses or geographic areas where we sell our products and/or services could reduce demand for our products and/or services and result in a decrease in sales volume that could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Global credit and capital markets have experienced unprecedented volatility and disruption. Business credit and liquidity have tightened in much of the world. Volatility and disruption of financial markets could limit our customers' ability to obtain adequate financing or credit to purchase and pay for our products and/or services in a timely manner, or to maintain operations, which may. 13. Table of Contents. result in a decrease in sales volume that could harm our results of operations. General concerns about the fundamental soundness of domestic and international economies may also cause our customers to reduce their purchases. Changes in governmental banking, monetary and fiscal policies to address liquidity and increase credit availability may not be effective. In addition, a significant reduction of government funding for research or significant government investment and allocation of resources to assist the economic recovery of sectors that do not include our customers may reduce the resources available for government grants and related funding for life sciences research and development. Economic conditions and market turbulence may also impact our suppliers' ability to supply us with sufficient quantities of product components in a timely manner, which could impair our ability to manufacture our products. It is difficult to determine the extent of the economic and financial market problems and the many ways that they may affect our suppliers, customers and our business in general. Continuation or further deterioration of these financial and macroeconomic conditions could significantly harm our sales, profitability and results of operations.. A significant portion of our sales are dependent upon our customers' capital spending policies and research and development budgets, and government funding of research and development programs at universities and other organizations, which are each subject to significant changes. Our customers include pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, government laboratories, and private foundations. Fluctuations in the research and development budgets at these organizations could have a significant effect on the demand for our products and services. Research and development budgets fluctuate due to changes in available resources, mergers of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, spending priorities, general economic conditions, and institutional and governmental budgetary policies. In addition, a significant portion of our instrument product sales are capital purchases by our customers, and these policies fluctuate due to similar factors. Our business could be seriously damaged by any significant decrease in capital equipment purchases or life sciences research and development expenditures by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, government laboratories, or private foundations.. The timing and amount of revenues from customers that rely on government funding of research may vary significantly due to factors that can be difficult to forecast. Research funding for life science research has increased more slowly during the past several years compared to the previous years and has declined in some countries, including a slight decrease in 2012 in United States government funding for the NIH. Some grants have been frozen for extended periods of time or otherwise become unavailable to various institutions, sometimes without advance notice. Government funding of research and development is subject to the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. In the United States for example, the Budget Control Act of 2011 created a Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, which was tasked with recommending proposals to reduce spending. Since that Joint Committee was unable to achieve a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, absent further action by the United States government, an automatic reduction in federal spending, or \"sequestration\" is to be triggered, which, combined with the expiration of certain tax cuts on December 31, 2012, has typically been known as the \"Fiscal Cliff.\" While the United States government did agree to a package of tax and federal spending proposals on January 1, 2013, these did not eliminate \"sequestration\" threat, but moved it back to March 1, 2013. In addition, other programs, such as homeland security or defense, or general efforts to stimulate the economy could be viewed by the United States government as a higher priority. These budgetary pressures may result in reduced allocations to government agencies that fund research and development activities. Past proposals to reduce budget deficits, for instance, have included reduced NIH and other research and development allocations. Any shift away from the funding of life sciences research and development or delays surrounding the approval of government budget proposals may cause our customers to delay or forego purchases of our products, which could seriously damage our business.. Our United States customers generally receive funds from approved grants at particular times of the year, as determined by the United States federal government. In the past, such grants have been frozen for extended periods or have otherwise become unavailable to various institutions without advance notice. The timing of the receipt of grant funds affects the timing of purchase decisions by our customers and, as a result, can cause fluctuations in our sales and operating results.. 14. Table of Contents. We may need additional financing in the future to meet our capital needs or to make opportunistic acquisitions and such financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all, and may be dilutive to existing stockholders. We intend to continue to invest in our business, including investing in research and development activities, expanding our sales and marketing activities, and continuing to make acquisitions. Our ability to take these and other actions may be limited by our available liquidity. As a consequence, in the future, we may need to seek additional financing. We may be unable to obtain any desired additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain funds for such matters on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund our expansion, successfully develop or enhance products or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could negatively affect our business. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, our stockholders will experience dilution of their ownership interest. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to limitations on our operations due to restrictive covenants.. Additionally, our ability to make scheduled payments or refinance our obligations will depend on our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors beyond our control. Recent disruptions in the financial markets, including the bankruptcy or restructuring of a number of financial institutions and reduced lending activity, may adversely affect the availability, terms and cost of credit in the future. We cannot be sure that recent government initiatives in response to the disruptions in the financial markets will stabilize the markets in general or increase liquidity and the availability of credit to us.. Some of our customers are requiring us to change our sales arrangements to lower their costs, which may limit our pricing flexibility and harm our business. Some of our customers have developed purchasing initiatives to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase to lower their supply costs. In some cases, these accounts have established agreements with large distributors, including discounts and the distributors' direct involvement with the purchasing process. These activities may force us to supply the large distributors with our products at a discount to reach those customers. For similar reasons, many larger customers, including the United States government, have requested and may in the future request, special pricing arrangements, including blanket purchase agreements.. These agreements may limit our pricing flexibility, which could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. For a limited number of customers, we have, at the customer's request, made sales through third-party online intermediaries, to whom we are required to pay commissions. If such intermediary sales grow, it could have a negative impact on our gross margins.. Risks Related to the Development and Manufacturing of Our Products. Our business depends on our ability to license new technologies from and to third parties. We believe our ability to in-license new technologies from third-parties is, and will continue to be, critical to our ability to offer new products to our customers. A significant portion of our current revenue is from products manufactured or sold under licenses from third parties. Our ability to gain access to technologies that we need for new products and services depends  -  in part  -  on our ability to convince inventors and technology holders that we can successfully commercialize their inventions. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to identify new external technologies of interest to our customers. Even if we are able to identify new technologies of interest, we may not be able to negotiate license agreements with external technology sources on acceptable terms, or at all.. In addition, several of our in-licenses, have finite terms and we may not be able to renew these existing in-licenses on favorable terms, or at all. If we lose the rights to a biological material or a patented technology, we may need to stop selling products and/or services containing those technologies and possibly other products and services, redesign our products, and/or lose a competitive advantage. While some of our in-licenses are exclusive to us in certain markets, potential competitors could also in-license technologies that we fail to in-license exclusively and potentially erode our competitive position for these and other products and services. Our in-. 15. Table of Contents. licenses also typically subject us to various economic and commercialization obligations. If we fail to comply with these obligations, we could lose important rights under an in-license, such as exclusivity. In some cases, we could lose all rights under an in-license. In other instances, the licensor could lose patent protection for a number of reasons, including invalidity of the licensed patent, or a third party could obtain a patent that curtails our freedom to operate under one or more licenses. Changes in patent law could affect the value of the licensed technology. We may also receive third-party claims of intellectual property infringement that we may not be indemnified by the licensor for. Loss of such rights could, in some cases, harm our business.. In the ordinary course of our business, we may determine to grant third parties the right to use certain of our patented technologies through out-licensing technology we have developed or acquired to a third-party licensee. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in identifying appropriate third-party licensees, or that we will be successful in negotiating acceptable commercial license terms. In addition, any third-party licensee may not be successful in developing and commercializing the licensed technology, or may default on the payment or other commercial terms of the license. As a result, we may not recognize the benefits of any out-licensed arrangements, which could harm our ability to expand our business.. The Company must be able to manufacture new and improved products to meet customer demand on a timely and cost-effective basis. The Company must be able to resolve in a timely manner manufacturing issues that may arise from time to time as it commences production of its complex products. Unanticipated difficulties or delays in manufacturing of new and improved products in sufficient quantities to meet customer demand could diminish future demand for such products and harm the Company's business.. The Company relies on other companies to manufacture some of its products and supply certain components of the products it manufactures on its own which may hinder its ability to satisfy customer demand. Although the Company has contracts with most of its manufacturers and suppliers, their operations could be disrupted. These disruptions could be caused by conditions unrelated to our business or operations, including a global economic downturn. Although we have our own manufacturing facilities, it could take considerable time and resources for us replace the capacity of such vendors. Accordingly, if these other manufacturers or suppliers are unable or fail to fulfill their obligations to us, we might not be able to satisfy customer demand in a timely manner, and our business could be harmed.. Violation of government regulations or quality programs could harm demand for our products or services. Some of our products and tests are regulated by the Food & Drug Administration (FDA) and comparable agencies in other countries. As applicable, we must comply with medical device and other FDA-related and comparable agency laws and regulations. In addition, the Company now owns and operates a clinical laboratory and as such we are subject to the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (\"CLIA\") and required to hold certain federal, state and local licenses, certifications and permits to conduct our business. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations can lead to sanctions by these agencies, including warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, consent decrees and civil and criminal sanctions. In addition, failure to comply with laws and regulations, could lead to disqualification of test data submitted in product applications. If the FDA were to take such actions, the FDA's sanctions would be available to the public. Such publicity could harm our ability to sell these regulated products globally. In addition, we may not be able to obtain regulatory clearance or approval for our products in the United States and/or may incur significant costs in obtaining or maintaining such regulatory clearances or approvals in the United States. Additionally, any changes in FDA laws, regulations, and interpretations could adversely affect us and our customers, have an adverse impact on revenues, and result in government sanctions.. Medical device laws and regulations are also in effect in many countries, ranging from comprehensive device approval requirements to requests for product data or certifications. The number and scope of these requirements is increasing. We may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals in such countries and/or may incur significant costs in obtaining or maintaining our foreign regulatory approvals. In addition, our exports of certain. 16. Table of Contents. of our products that have not yet been cleared or approved for United States commercial distribution may be subject to FDA, other export restrictions abroad, as well as import regulations in many countries.. Additionally, some of our customers use our products in the manufacturing or testing processes for their drug and medical device products, and such end-products or services may be regulated by the FDA under pharmaceutical Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for drugs and Quality System Regulations (QSR) for medical devices or by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) regulations. The customer is ultimately responsible for QSR, CLIA and other compliance requirements for their products; however, we may agree to comply with certain requirements, and, if we fail to do so, we could lose sales and customers and be exposed to product liability claims.. Our facilities in Benecia, California; Brown Deer, Wisconsin; Frederick, Maryland; Grand Island, New York; Australia; Inchinnan, Scotland; New Zealand; Oslo, Norway; and Singapore manufacture certain products in compliance with FDA QSR 21 CFR Part 820 and are certified to ISO 13485 and ISO 9001, internationally-recognized standards. The ISO standards are voluntary quality management system standards that may be used in the design, development, production, and installation and servicing of medical devices similar to the QSR. Our facilities in Austin, Texas; Benicia and Pleasanton, California; Brown Deer, Wisconsin; Framingham, Massachusetts; Frederick, Maryland; Grand Island, New York; Inchinnan, Scotland; Oslo, Norway; Singapore; and Warrington, United Kingdom are each certified for compliance with ISO 13485. Our facilities in Carlsbad and Foster City, California; Eugene, Oregon; Grand Island; New York; Madison, Wisconsin; Newcastle, Australia; Beijing, China; Burlington, Canada; Lohne, Germany; Auckland, New Zealand; Israel; and Oslo, Norway are each certified for compliance with ISO 9001. Our facility in Austin, Texas has a USDA License. Failure to comply with ISO standards can lead to observations of non-compliance or even suspension of ISO certification or EC Declarations of Conformity Certificates by the registrar. If we were to lose ISO certification or EC Declarations of Conformity, some customers might purchase products from other suppliers as a result.. If the Company violates a government-mandated or voluntary quality program, we may incur additional expense to come back into compliance with the government mandated or voluntary standards. That expense may be material and we may not have anticipated that expense in our financial forecasts. Our financial results could suffer as a result of such increased expenses.. The regulatory clearance or approval process is expensive, time consuming and uncertain, and the failure to obtain and maintain required clearances or approvals may constrain the commercialization of submitted products. Our diagnostic products are subject to 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval by the FDA prior to their marketing for commercial use in the United States, and to any approvals required by foreign governmental entities prior to their marketing outside the United States. In addition, any changes or modifications to a device that has received regulatory clearance or approval that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or would constitute a major change in its intended use, may require the submission of a new application for 510(k) clearance, pre-market approval or foreign regulatory approvals.. The 510(k) clearance and pre-market approval processes, as well as the process of obtaining foreign approvals, can be expensive, time consuming and uncertain. It generally takes from four to twelve months from submission to obtain 510(k) clearance, and from one to three years from submission to obtain pre-market approval; however, it may take longer, and 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval may never be obtained. Delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, clearances or approvals for future products, including tests that are currently in design or development, would result in delayed or no realization of revenues from such products and in substantial additional costs that could decrease our profitability.. In addition, we are required to continue to comply with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements once we have obtained clearance or approval for a product. There can be no assurance that we will obtain or maintain any required clearance or approval on a timely basis, or at all. Any failure to obtain or any material delay in obtaining FDA clearance or any failure to maintain compliance with FDA regulatory requirements could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 17. Table of Contents. Regulatory or legislative healthcare reforms may make it more difficult and costly for us to obtain regulatory clearance or approval of our products and to produce, market and distribute our products after clearance or approval is obtained. From time to time, legislation is drafted and introduced in Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the regulatory clearance or approval, manufacture and marketing of regulated products or the reimbursement thereof. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the FDA in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. Any new regulations or revisions or reinterpretations of existing regulations may impose additional costs or lengthen review times of our products. Delays in receipt of or failure to receive regulatory clearances or approvals for our new products would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the life sciences industry to significant changes. We cannot predict with certainty which initiatives affecting the life sciences industry, if any, will be implemented at the state or federal level, or what affect any future legislation, regulation or governmental policy may have on the Company or our customers' purchasing decisions regarding our products and services. However, the implementation of new legislation, regulation and policies may adversely affect our business.. New regulations related to \"conflict minerals\" may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products. On August 22, 2012, the SEC adopted a new rule requiring disclosures of specified minerals, known as conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured by public companies. The new rule, which is effective for calendar 2013 and requires a disclosure report to be filed by May 31, 2014, will require companies to diligence, disclose and report whether or not such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo or an adjoining country. The new rule could affect sourcing at competitive prices and availability in sufficient quantities of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products, including tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten. The number of suppliers who provide conflict-free minerals may be limited. In addition, there may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as costs of possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. Since our supply chain is complex, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the relevant minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our reputation. In addition, we may encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict-free, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage if we are unable to do so.. Risks Related to Our Operations. Loss of key personnel may adversely affect our business. Our products and services are highly technical in nature. In general, only highly qualified and trained scientists have the necessary skills to develop and market our products and provide our services. In addition, some of our manufacturing positions are highly technical as well. We face intense competition for these professionals from our competitors, customers, marketing partners, and other companies throughout our industry. As is customary in the United States, we do not generally enter into employment agreements requiring these employees to continue in our employment for any period of time. Any failure on our part to hire, train, and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could seriously damage our business. Additionally, integration of acquired companies and businesses can be disruptive and may lead to the departure of key employees. Further, we use or may use stock options, restricted stock units/awards, performance-based units, and performance-based cash to provide incentives to these individuals to remain with us and to build their long-term stockholder value to align their interests with those of the Company. If our stock price decreases, this reduces the value of certain of those awards that are equity-related and therefore a key employee's incentive to stay. If we were to lose a sufficient number of our key employees and were unable to replace them, these losses could seriously damage our business.. 18. Table of Contents. We have substantial indebtedness, which could adversely affect our cash flows, business and financial condition. As of December 31, 2012, the carrying value of our outstanding indebtedness was approximately $2,414.1 million, including $100.0 million drawn on our revolving credit facility. As of December 31, 2012, we had availability of $639.9 million (net of standby letters of credit of $10.1 million) under our revolving credit facility.. Our substantial level of debt could, among other things:. <U+0095>    require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the servicing and repayment of our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes;. <U+0095>    increase our vulnerability to, and limit our flexibility in planning for, adverse economic and industry conditions;. <U+0095>    adversely affect our credit rating, with the result that the cost of new indebtedness might increase;. <U+0095>    limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, additional acquisitions and other general corporate requirements;. <U+0095>    create competitive disadvantages compared to other companies with less indebtedness;. <U+0095>    adversely affect our stock price;. <U+0095>    limit our ability to apply proceeds from an offering, debt incurrence or asset sale to purposes other than the servicing and repayment of our debt; and. <U+0095>    limit our ability to pay dividends and repurchase stock.. Our credit facility contains restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. Our credit facility may contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants may limit our and our subsidiaries' ability to, among other things:. <U+0095>    incur additional indebtedness (including guarantees or other contingent obligations);. <U+0095>    pay dividends on, repurchase, or make distributions in respect to our common stock or make other restricted payments;. <U+0095>    make specified investments (including loans and advances);. <U+0095>    sell or transfer assets;. <U+0095>    create liens;. <U+0095>    consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and. <U+0095>    enter into certain transactions with our affiliates.. In addition, under our credit facility, we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios and other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot be assured that we will meet those ratios and tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit facility. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our credit facility, our lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our credit facility to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our credit facility could proceed to collect against all United States subsidiaries, as guarantors of the facility.. The Company could incur more indebtedness, which may increase the risks associated with our substantial leverage, including our ability to service our indebtedness. The indentures governing our senior unsecured notes and our credit facility permit us, under some circumstances, to incur certain amounts of additional indebtedness. If we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our leverage, including our ability to service our debt, would increase. This, in turn, could negatively affect the market price of our common stock.. 19. Table of Contents. Our federal, state and local income tax returns may, from time to time, be selected for audit by the taxing authorities or affected by a change in interpretation of legislation, either of which may result in tax assessments, penalties, or other results. The Company is subject to federal, state and local taxes in the United States and abroad. Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for taxes. Although the Company believes its tax expense is calculated correctly, if the IRS or other taxing authority disagrees with the positions taken by the Company on its tax returns, the Company could incur additional tax liabilities, plus related interest and penalties. If potential assessments differ significantly from previously recorded reserves, payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position.. In addition, United States' federal, state and local, as well as international, tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations, and a change in interpretation could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position.. Tax legislation initiatives could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are a large multinational corporation subject to the tax laws and regulations of the United States federal, state and local governments, and of many international jurisdictions. From time to time, new tax legislation may be proposed, that could adversely affect our current or future tax filings and/or negatively impact our effective tax rate and increase future tax payments.. Cyber security risks and the failure to maintain the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of our computer hardware, software, and Internet applications and related tools and functions could result in damage to our reputation and/or subject us to costs, fines or lawsuits. The Company's business requires manipulating and analyzing large amounts of data, and communicating the results of the analysis to our internal research personnel and to our customers via the Internet. In addition, we rely on a global enterprise software system to operate and manage our business. We also maintain personally identifiable information about our employees. Our business therefore depends on the continuous, effective, reliable, and secure operation of our computer hardware, software, networks, Internet servers, and related infrastructure. To the extent that our hardware or software malfunctions or access to our data by internal research personnel or customers through the Internet is interrupted, our business could suffer.. The integrity and protection of our customer, employee and Company data is critical to our business and our customers and employees have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. The regulatory environment, as well as the requirements imposed on us by the credit card industry, governing information, security and privacy laws is increasingly demanding and continues to evolve. Maintaining compliance with applicable security and privacy regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to market our products and services to our customers. Although our computer and communications hardware is protected through physical and software safeguards, it is still vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss, earthquakes, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins, software viruses, and similar events. These events could lead to the unauthorized access, disclosure and use of non-public information, including credit card data. The techniques used by criminal elements to attack computer systems are sophisticated, change frequently and may originate from less regulated and remote areas of the world. As a result, we may not be able to address these techniques proactively or implement adequate preventative measures. If our computer systems are compromised, we could be subject to fines, damages, litigation and enforcement actions, customers could curtail or cease using our applications, and we could lose trade secrets, the occurrence of which could harm our business.. In addition, our online products and services are complex and sophisticated, and as such, could contain data, design, or software errors that could be difficult to detect and correct. Software defects could be found in current or future products. If we fail to maintain and further develop the necessary computer capacity and data to support our computational needs and our customers' access to information-based product and service offerings, we could experience a loss of or delay in revenues or market acceptance. In addition, any sustained disruption in internet access provided by other companies could harm our business.. 20. Table of Contents. Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. The Company's worldwide operations could be subject to earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics and other natural or manmade disasters or business interruptions, for which we are predominantly self-insured. The occurrence of any of these business disruptions could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our corporate headquarters, and a portion of our principal research and development, manufacturing and administrative facilities, are located in California, and other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in California, Japan, Singapore and other parts of Asia, near major earthquake faults and fire zones. The ultimate impact of being located near major earthquake faults, fire zones and being consolidated in certain geographical areas on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure is unknown, but our revenue, profitability and financial condition could suffer in the event of a major earthquake, fire or other natural disaster.. Risks Related to Our International Operations. We are subject to risks associated with doing business outside the United States. The Company's products are currently marketed in approximately 180 countries throughout the world. Our international revenues, which include revenues from our foreign subsidiaries and export sales from the United States, represented 63% of our product revenues in 2012, 62% of our product revenues in 2011 and 60% of our product revenues in 2010. We intend to continue to pursue acquisition and growth opportunities in international markets, and we expect that international revenues will continue to account for a significant percentage of our revenues for the foreseeable future. There are a number of risks arising from our international business, including those related to:. <U+0095>    foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, potentially reducing the United States dollars we receive for sales denominated in foreign currency;. <U+0095>    the possibility that unfriendly nations or groups could boycott our products;. <U+0095>    general economic and political conditions in the markets we operate in;. <U+0095>    potential increased costs associated with overlapping tax structures;. <U+0095>    potential trade restrictions and exchange controls;. <U+0095>    more limited protection for intellectual property rights in some countries;. <U+0095>    difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations;. <U+0095>    unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;. <U+0095>    the difficulties of compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations;. <U+0095>    longer accounts receivable cycles in certain foreign countries, whether due to cultural differences, exchange rate fluctuation or other factors;. <U+0095>    import and export licensing requirements; and. <U+0095>    changes to our distribution networks.. These risks, individually or in the aggregate, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For example, we are subject to compliance with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. While our employees and agents are required to comply with these laws, we cannot be sure that our internal policies and procedures will always protect us from violations of these laws, despite our commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics. The occurrence or allegation of these types of risks may adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations.. We are subject to foreign exchange risk. A significant portion of the Company's revenues are received in currencies other than the United States dollar, which is our reporting currency. Most of our costs, however, are incurred in United States dollars. While we have at times attempted to hedge our net cash flows in currencies other than the United States dollar, our hedging program relies in part on forecasts of these cash flows. As a result, we cannot guarantee this program will adequately protect. 21. Table of Contents. our cash flows from the full risks and effects of exchange rate fluctuations. We also continually evaluate the costs and benefits of our hedging program and cannot guarantee that we will continue to conduct hedging activities. At the current time, we are not hedging net cash flow exposures on foreign currency revenue. As a result, fluctuations in exchange rates for the currencies in which we do business have caused, and will continue to cause, fluctuations in the United States dollar value of our financial results. We cannot definitively predict the effects of currency exchange rate fluctuations upon our future financial results because of the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposures and the volatility of currency exchange rates.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. The Company may not be able to effectively and efficiently protect and enforce intellectual property covering our proprietary technology. The Company's success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to develop proprietary products and technologies. When we develop such technologies, we routinely seek patent protection in the United States and abroad. However, the intellectual property rights of biotechnology companies, including us, involve complex factual, scientific, and legal questions. We cannot assure that patents will be granted on any of our patent applications or that the scope of any of our issued patents will be sufficiently broad to offer meaningful protection. Even if we receive a patent that we believe is valid for a particular technology, we may not be able to realize the expected value to us from that technology due to several factors, including, without limitation, the following:. <U+0095>    Although we have licensing programs to provide industry access to some of our patent rights, some other companies have in the past refused to participate in these licensing programs and some companies may refuse to participate in them in the future. In addition, our licenses typically provide our customers with access for limited use of our technology, such as for certain fields of use or to provide certain kinds of products and services. The validity of the restrictions contained in these licenses could be contested, and we cannot provide assurances that we would either be aware of an unauthorized use or be able to enforce the restrictions in an effective manner;. <U+0095>    Legal actions to enforce patent rights can be expensive and may involve the diversion of significant management time. Our enforcement actions may not be successful, and furthermore they could give risk to legal claims against us and could result in the invalidation of some of our intellectual property rights or legal determinations that they are not enforceable;. <U+0095>    The Company only seeks to have patents issued in selected countries. Third-parties can make, use and sell products covered by our patents in any country in which we do not seek patent protection, unless such activity is covered by our other intellectual property;. <U+0095>    The Company's issued patents or patents we exclusively license from others could be successfully challenged through legal actions or other proceedings, such as by challenging the validity and scope of a patent with the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, foreign patent offices, Federal Courts, or the International Trade Commission. These actions or proceedings could result in amendments to or rejection of certain patent claims; and. <U+0095>    Judicial decisions in third-party litigation and legislative changes could harm the value of our patents, or could impact our exclusive licenses or the effectiveness of our label licenses associated with our products, which, in turn, could have an impact on our business and/or revenue.. The Company is currently, and could in the future be, subject to lawsuits, arbitrations, investigations, and other legal actions with private parties and governmental entities, particularly involving claims for infringement of patents and other intellectual property rights, and we may need to obtain licenses to intellectual property from others. Our products are based on complex, rapidly developing technologies. These products could be developed without knowledge of previously filed patent applications that mature into patents that cover some aspect of these technologies. In addition, we may seek to protect and commercialize a technology even though we are aware that patents have been applied for and, in some cases, issued to others claiming technologies that are closely related to ours. Because patent litigation is complex and the outcome inherently uncertain, our belief that our products do. 22. Table of Contents. not infringe on valid and enforceable patents owned by others could be successfully challenged. We have from time to time been notified that we may be infringing on the patents and other intellectual property rights of others. In addition, in the course of our business, we may from time to time have access to confidential or proprietary information of others, and they could bring a claim against us asserting that we had misappropriated their technologies, that, though not patented, are protected as trade secrets, and had improperly incorporated those technologies into our products. The outcome of legal actions is inherently uncertain, and we cannot be sure that we will prevail in any of these actions. An adverse determination in some of our current legal actions could harm our business and financial condition.. Due to these factors, litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights is extensive in the biotechnology industry, and there remains a constant risk of intellectual property litigation and other legal actions affecting us, which could include antitrust claims. From time to time, we have been made a party to litigation and have been subject to other legal actions regarding intellectual property matters, which have included claims of violations of antitrust laws. Some of these actions, if determined adversely, could harm our business and financial condition. To avoid or settle legal claims, it may be necessary or desirable in the future to obtain licenses relating to one or more products or relating to current or future technologies. We may not be able to obtain these licenses or other rights on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and there is a risk that we may need to discontinue an important product or product line or alter our products and processes. In some situations, settlement of claims may require an agreement to cease allegedly infringing activities.. The Company is involved in several legal actions that could affect our intellectual property rights and our products and services. The cost of litigation and the amount of management time associated with these cases has been, and is expected to continue to be, significant. These matters might not be resolved favorably. If they are not resolved favorably, we could be enjoined from selling the products or services in question or other, related products or services, and monetary or other damages could be assessed against us. The damages assessed against us could include damages for past infringement, which, in some cases, can be trebled by the court. Such possible outcomes could harm our business or financial condition.. Disclosure of trade secrets could cause harm to our business. The Company attempts to protect our trade secrets by, among other things, entering into confidentiality agreements with third-parties, our employees, and our consultants. However, these agreements can be breached and, if they are, there may not be an adequate remedy available to us. If our trade secrets become publicly known, we may lose our competitive position.. Some of the intellectual property that is important to our business is owned by other companies or institutions and licensed to us, and legal actions against them could harm our business. Even if we are not a party to these legal actions, an adverse outcome could harm our business because it might prevent these other companies or institutions from continuing to license intellectual property that we may need for our business. Furthermore, an adverse outcome could result in infringement or other legal actions being brought directly against us.. Risks Related to Environmental, Product Liability and Litigation Issues. Risks related to handling of hazardous materials and other regulations governing environmental and workplace safety. The Company's research and development and manufacturing activities involve the use of potentially hazardous materials, including biological materials, chemicals, and various radioactive compounds. In addition, some of our products are hazardous materials or include hazardous materials. Our operations also involve the generation, transportation and storage of waste. These activities are subject to complex and stringent federal, state, local, and foreign environmental, health, safety and other governmental laws, regulations, and permits governing the use, storage, handling, transport, and disposal of hazardous materials and specified waste products, as well as the shipment and labeling of materials and products containing hazardous materials. Public officials and private individuals or organizations may seek to enforce these legal requirements against us. While we. 23. Table of Contents. believe we are in material compliance with these laws, regulations, and permits, we could discover that we are not in material compliance. Under some laws and regulations, a party can be subject to \"strict liability\" for damages caused by some hazardous materials, which means that a party can be liable without regard to fault or negligence. Existing laws and regulations may also be revised or reinterpreted, or new laws and regulations may become applicable to us, whether retroactively or prospectively, that may have a negative effect on our business and results of operations. It is therefore impossible to eliminate completely the risk of contamination or injury from the hazardous and other materials that we use in our business and products. If we fail to comply with any of these laws, regulations, or permits, or if we are held strictly liable under any of these laws, regulations, or permits despite our compliance, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties, payment of remediation costs, loss of permits, embargos, and/or other adverse governmental action, and we could be liable for substantial damages. Any of these events could harm our business and financial condition.. In acquiring Dexter Corporation in 2000, we assumed certain of Dexter Corporation's environmental liabilities, including clean-up of formerly-owned locations as well as several hazardous waste sites under state and federal environmental laws. We also assumed certain Applied Biosystems environmental liabilities, including clean-up of formerly-owned locations as well as hazardous waste sites under state and federal environmental laws, in connection with our acquisition of Applied Biosystems in 2008. Unexpected results related to the investigation and clean-up of any of these sites could cause our financial exposure in these matters to exceed stated reserves and insurance, requiring us to allocate additional funds and other resources to address our environmental liabilities, which could cause a material adverse effect on our business.. Potential product liability and other litigation claims could cause harm to our business. We face a potential risk of liability claims based on our products or services. We carry product liability insurance coverage, that is limited in scope and amount. We cannot assure, however, that we will be able to maintain this insurance at a reasonable cost and on reasonable terms. We also cannot assure that this insurance will be adequate to protect us against a product liability claim, should one arise.. Some of our services include the manufacture of biologic products to be tested in human clinical trials. We could be held liable for errors and omissions in connection with these services, even though we are not the party performing the clinical trials. In addition, we formulate, test and manufacture products intended for use by the public. These activities could expose us to risk of liability for personal injury or death to persons using such products. We seek to reduce our potential liability through measures such as contractual indemnification provisions with clients (the scope of which may vary from client to client and the performances of which are not secured), insurance maintained by clients and conducting certain of these businesses through subsidiaries. Nonetheless, we could be materially harmed if we were required to pay damages or incur defense costs in connection with a claim that is outside the scope of the indemnification agreements, if the indemnity, although applicable, is not performed in accordance with its terms or if our liability exceeds the amount of applicable insurance or indemnity. In addition, we could be held liable for errors and omissions in connection with the services we perform. We currently maintain product liability and errors and omissions insurance with respect to these risks. There can be no assurance, however, that our insurance coverage will be adequate or that insurance coverage will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us.. We are involved in a number of legal proceedings. Legal proceedings are inherently unpredictable, and the outcome can result in excessive verdicts and/or injunctive relief that may affect how we operate our business, or we may enter into settlements of claims for monetary damages that exceed our insurance coverage, if any. Future court decisions and legislative activity may increase our exposure to litigation and regulatory investigations. In some cases, substantial non-economic remedies or punitive damages may be sought.. Risks Related to the Market for Our Securities. Operating results and the market price of our stock and the senior unsecured notes could be volatile. Our operating results and the price of our stock and the senior unsecured notes have been in the past, and will continue to be, subject to fluctuations as a result of a number of factors, including those that we fail to foresee. Our stock price could also be affected by any of the following: inability to meet analysts' expectations; general. 24. Table of Contents. fluctuations in the stock market; actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; fluctuations in the stock prices of companies in our industry or those of our customers; changes in earnings estimated by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; domestic and foreign economic conditions; and publicity regarding the genomics, biotechnology, pharmaceutical, or life sciences industries generally, including, for example, comments by securities analysts or public officials regarding such matters. Such volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of many companies' securities for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and, in the past, has led to securities class action litigation. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources, which could have an adverse effect on our business.. Certain provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and seventh amended and restated bylaws, and of Delaware law, may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. Our restated certificate of incorporation and our seventh amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the raider and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include, among others:. <U+0095>    the inability of our stockholders to call a special meeting;. <U+0095>    rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings;. <U+0095>    the right of our board to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; and. <U+0095>    the ability of our directors, and not stockholders, to fill vacancies on our board of directors.. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock.. We believe these provisions may help protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make our company immune from takeovers. In addition, although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board, they would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. These provisions may also frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management team by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management."
