[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our businesses routinely encounter and address risks, some of which may cause our future results to be different than we currently anticipate.  The risk factors described below represent our current view of some of the most important risks facing our businesses and are important to understanding our business.  The following information should be read in conjunction with Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  This discussion includes a number of forward-looking statements.  You should refer to the description of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements in the first paragraph under Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  The level of importance of each of the following risks may vary from time to time, and any of these risks may have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Failure to comply with, or changes in, laws and regulations applicable to our businesses could have a materially adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations or financial condition, or have other adverse consequences. 10. Our business is subject to a wide range of complex U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the laws and regulations described in the \"Industry Regulation\" section in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our operations or client solutions and services could result in the suspension or revocation of licenses or registrations, the limitation, suspension or termination of services, and the imposition of consent orders or civil and criminal penalties, including fines, that could damage our reputation and have a materially adverse effect on our results of operation or financial condition.. In addition, changes in laws or regulations, or changes in the interpretation of laws or regulations by a regulatory authority, may decrease our revenues and earnings and may require us to change the manner in which we conduct some aspects of our business.  For example, a change in regulations either decreasing the amount of taxes to be withheld or allowing less time to remit taxes to government authorities would adversely impact average client balances and, thereby adversely impact interest income from investing client funds before such funds are remitted to the applicable taxing authorities.  Changes in taxation regulations could adversely affect our effective tax rate and our net income.  Changes in laws that govern the co-employment arrangement between a professional employer organization and its worksite employees may require us to change the manner in which we conduct some aspects of our PEO business.  Health care reform under the Affordable Care Act, related state laws, and the regulations thereunder, as well as the uncertainty surrounding the Affordable Care Act, have the potential to further impact the health insurance market for our PEO business and the demand for our health care compliance solutions.  We are unable to determine the additional impact that any of this will have on our PEO business, our ability to attract and retain PEO clients or demand for our health care compliance solutions.. Amendments to money transmitter statutes have required us to obtain licenses in some jurisdictions.  The adoption of new money transmitter statutes in other jurisdictions, changes in regulators' interpretation of existing state and federal money transmitter or money services business statutes or regulations, or disagreement by a regulatory authority with our interpretation of such statutes or regulations, could require additional registration or licensing, limit certain of our business activities until they are appropriately licensed, and expose us to financial penalties.  These occurrences could also require changes to the manner in which we conduct some aspects of our money movement business or client funds investment strategy, which could adversely impact interest income from investing client funds before such funds are remitted.. Failure to comply with anti-corruption laws and regulations, anti-money laundering laws and regulations, economic and trade sanctions, and similar laws could have a materially adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations or financial condition, or have other adverse consequences. Regulators worldwide are exercising heightened scrutiny with respect to anti-corruption, economic and trade sanctions, and anti-money laundering laws and regulations.  Such heightened scrutiny has resulted in more aggressive investigations and enforcement of such laws and more burdensome regulations, any of which could adversely impact our business.  We operate our business around the world, including in numerous developing economies where companies and government officials are more likely to engage in business practices that are prohibited by domestic and foreign laws and regulations, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act.  Such laws generally prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign government officials and leaders of political parties, and in some cases, to other persons, for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business.  We are also subject to economic and trade sanctions programs, including those administered by the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control, which prohibit or restrict transactions or dealings with specified countries, their governments, and in certain circumstances, their nationals, and with individuals and entities that are specially designated, including narcotics traffickers and terrorists or terrorist organizations, among others.  In addition, some of our businesses in the U.S. and a number of countries in which we operate are subject to anti-money laundering laws and regulations, including, for example, The Bank Secrecy Act of 1970, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2000 (the \"BSA\").  Among other things, the BSA requires certain financial institutions, including banks and money services businesses (such as money transmitters and providers of prepaid access), to develop and implement risk-based anti-money laundering programs, report large cash transactions and suspicious activity, and maintain transaction records. We have registered our payroll card business with the Treasury Department's Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (\"FinCEN\") as a provider of prepaid access pursuant to a FinCEN regulation.. We have implemented policies and procedures to monitor and address compliance with applicable anti-corruption, economic and trade sanctions and anti-money laundering laws and regulations, and we are continuously in the process of reviewing, upgrading and enhancing certain of our policies and procedures.  However, there can be no assurance that our employees, consultants or agents will not take actions in violation of our policies for which we may be ultimately responsible, or that our policies and procedures will be adequate or will be determined to be adequate by regulators.  Any violations of applicable anti-corruption, economic and trade sanctions or anti-money laundering laws or regulations could limit certain of our. 11. business activities until they are satisfactorily remediated and could result in civil and criminal penalties, including fines, which could damage our reputation and have a materially adverse effect on our results of operation or financial condition. Further, bank regulators are imposing additional and stricter requirements on banks to ensure they are meeting their BSA obligations, and banks are increasingly viewing money services businesses, as a class, to be higher risk customers for money laundering.  As a result, our banking partners may limit the scope of services they provide to us or may impose additional requirements on us.  These regulatory restrictions on banks and changes to banks' internal risk-based policies and procedures may result in a decrease in the number of banks that may do business with us, may require us to change the manner in which we conduct some aspects of our business, may decrease our revenues and earnings and could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operation or financial condition.. Failure to comply with privacy, data protection and cyber security laws and regulations could have a materially adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations or financial condition, or have other adverse consequences. The collection, hosting, transfer, disclosure, use, storage and security of personal information required to provide our services is subject to federal, state and foreign privacy, data protection and cyber security laws.  These laws, which are not uniform, do one or more of the following: regulate the collection, transfer (including in some cases, the transfer outside the country of collection), processing, storage, security, use, disclosure and disposal of personal information; require notice to individuals of privacy practices; give individuals certain access and correction rights with respect to their personal information; and prevent the use or disclosure of personal information for secondary purposes such as marketing.  Under certain circumstances, some of these laws require us to provide notification to affected individuals, clients, data protection authorities and/or other regulators in the event of a data breach.  In many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information among the Company and its subsidiaries.  The European Union (the \"EU\") General Data Protection Regulation (the \"GDPR\"), which became effective in May 2018, is one of the most comprehensive of these laws.  As part of our overall data protection compliance program, in February 2018 we obtained approval from all 28 EU Data Protection Authorities to implement Binding Corporate Rules (\"BCRs\") as both a data processor and data controller, which permits us to process and transfer personal data across borders in compliance with EU data protection laws.  Complying with these laws and requirements, including the enhanced obligations imposed by the GDPR and our BCRs, may result in significant costs to our business and require us to amend certain of our business practices.  Further, enforcement actions and investigations by regulatory authorities related to data security incidents and privacy violations continue to increase.  The future enactment of more restrictive laws, rules or regulations and/or future enforcement actions or investigations could have a materially adverse impact on us through increased costs or restrictions on our businesses and noncompliance could result in significant regulatory penalties and legal liability.. Our businesses collect, host, transfer, disclose, use, store and secure personal and business information, and collect, store and transmit client funds, and a security or privacy breach may damage or disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation, increase our costs, cause losses and adversely affect our results of operations. In connection with our business, we collect, host, transfer, disclose, use, store and secure large amounts of personal and business information about our clients, employees of our clients, our vendors and our employees, contractors and temporary staff, including payroll information, health care information, personal and business financial data, social security numbers and their foreign equivalents, bank account numbers, tax information and other sensitive personal and business information.  We also collect and transmit significant amounts of funds from the accounts of our clients to their employees, taxing authorities and others.. We are focused on ensuring that we safeguard and protect personal and business information and client funds, and we devote significant resources to maintain and regularly update our systems and processes.  Nonetheless, globally, attacks on information technology systems continue to grow in frequency, complexity and sophistication, and we are regularly targeted by unauthorized parties using malicious tactics, code and viruses.  Although this is a global problem, it may affect our businesses more than other businesses because malevolent third parties may focus on the amount and type of personal and business information that our businesses collect, host, use, transmit and store, and the clients funds that we collect and transmit.. We have programs in place to prevent, detect and respond to data or cyber security incidents.  However, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently, are increasingly more complex and sophisticated and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, we may be unable or fail to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate or timely preventive or responsive measures.  In addition, hardware, software or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other. 12. problems that could compromise the confidentiality, integrity or availability of data or our systems.  Unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities, or those of third parties with whom we do business, through fraud, trickery, or other methods of deceiving these third parties or our employees, contractors, and temporary staff.  As these threats continue to evolve and increase, we may be required to invest significant additional resources to modify and enhance our information security and controls and to investigate and remediate any security vulnerabilities.  In addition, while our operating environments are designed to safeguard and protect personal and business information, we do not have the ability to monitor the implementation or effectiveness of any safeguards by our clients, vendors or partners, and, in any event, third parties may be able to circumvent those security measures.  Information obtained by malevolent parties resulting from successful attacks against our clients, vendors, partners or other third parties may, in turn, be used to attack our information technology systems.. Any cyberattack, unauthorized intrusion, malicious software infiltration, network disruption, denial of service, corruption of data, theft of non-public or other sensitive information, or similar act by a malevolent party, or inadvertent acts or inactions by our employees, contractors or temporary staff, could result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential personal or business information or the theft of client funds, and could have a materially adverse effect on our business or results of operations, or that of our clients, result in liability, litigation, regulatory investigations and sanctions or a loss of confidence in our ability to serve clients, or cause current or potential clients to choose another service provider.. Although we believe that we maintain a robust program of information security and controls and none of the data or cyber security incidents that we have encountered to date have materially impacted us, a data or cyber security incident could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and reputation.  While ADP maintains insurance coverage that, subject to policy terms and conditions and a significant self-insured retention, is designed to address losses or claims that may arise in connection with certain aspects of data and cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise in the continually evolving area of data and cyber risk.. Our systems may be subject to disruptions that could have a materially adverse effect on our business and reputation. Many of our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of complicated transactions.  We rely heavily on our payroll, financial, accounting, and other data processing systems.  If any of these systems fails to operate properly or becomes disabled even for a brief period of time, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, loss of clients, regulatory intervention, or damage to our reputation, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operation or financial condition.  We have disaster recovery, business continuity, and crisis management plans and procedures designed to protect our businesses against a multitude of events, including natural disasters, military or terrorist actions, power or communication failures, or similar events.  Despite our preparations, our plans may not be successful in preventing or mitigating the loss of client data, service interruptions, disruptions to our operations, or damage to our important facilities.. A disruption of our data centers could have a materially adverse effect on our business. We host our applications and serve our clients from data centers that we operate and from data centers operated by third-party vendors.  If any of our or our third-party vendors' data centers fail or become disabled, even for a limited period of time, our businesses could be disrupted and we could suffer financial loss, liability to clients, loss of clients, regulatory intervention, or damage to our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation or financial condition.  In addition, our third-party vendors may cease providing data center facilities or services, elect to not renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms or at all, breach their agreements with us or fail to satisfy our expectations, which could disrupt our operations and require us to incur costs which could materially adversely affect our results of operation or financial condition.. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, it could materially adversely affect our business and our brand. Our ability to compete and success depend, in part, upon our intellectual property. We rely on patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, and confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, customers, vendors, partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights.  We may need to devote significant resources, including cybersecurity resources, to monitoring our intellectual property rights.  In addition, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property rights may be inadequate or ineffective, or may not provide us with a significant competitive advantage.  Our intellectual property could be wrongfully acquired as a result of a cyber-attack or other wrongful conduct by employees or third parties.  Litigation brought to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly and time-consuming. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims, and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights which may be successful.. 13. We may be sued by third parties for infringement of their proprietary rights. There is considerable intellectual property development activity in our industry.  Third parties, including our competitors, may own or claim to own intellectual property relating to our products or services and may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. We may be found to be infringing upon such rights, even if we are unaware of their intellectual property rights. Any claims or litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, could require that we pay substantial damages or ongoing royalty payments, obtain licenses, modify applications, prevent us from offering our services, or require that we comply with other unfavorable terms. We may also be obligated to indemnify our customers, vendors or partners in connection with any such claim or litigation. Even if we were to prevail in such a dispute, any litigation regarding our intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming.. If we fail to upgrade, enhance and expand our technology and services to meet client needs and preferences, the demand for our solutions and services may diminish. Our businesses operate in industries that are subject to rapid technological advances and changing client needs and preferences.  In order to remain competitive and responsive to client demands, we continually upgrade, enhance, and expand our existing solutions and services.  If we fail to respond successfully to technology challenges and client needs and preferences, the demand for our solutions and services may diminish.. We may not realize the expected benefits from our business transformation initiatives, and these efforts could have a materially adverse effect on our business, operations, financial results and competitive position. We have been and will be undertaking certain transformation initiatives, which are designed to streamline our organization, extend our world-class distribution and strengthen our talent and culture, while supporting our revenue growth, margin improvement and productivity.  If we do not successfully manage and execute these initiatives, or if they are inadequate or ineffective, we may fail to meet our financial goals and achieve anticipated benefits, improvements may be delayed or not realized and our business, operations and competitive position could be adversely affected.  These initiatives, or our failure to successfully manage them, could result in unintended consequences or unforeseen costs, including distraction of our management and employees, attrition, inability to attract or retain key personnel, and reduced employee productivity, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Political and economic factors may adversely affect our business and financial results. Trade, monetary and fiscal policies, and political and economic conditions may substantially change, and credit markets may experience periods of constriction and volatility.  When there is a slowdown in the economy, employment levels and interest rates may decrease with a corresponding impact on our businesses.  Clients may react to worsening conditions by reducing their spending on HCM services or renegotiating their contracts with us, which may adversely affect our business and financial results.. We invest our client funds in liquid, investment-grade marketable securities, money market securities, and other cash equivalents.  Nevertheless, our client fund assets are subject to general market, interest rate, credit, and liquidity risks.  These risks may be exacerbated, individually or in unison, during periods of unusual financial market volatility.  In addition, as part of our client funds investment strategy, we extend the maturities of our investment portfolio for client funds and utilize short-term financing arrangements to satisfy our short-term funding requirements related to client funds obligations.  In order to satisfy these short-term funding requirements, we maintain access to various sources of liquidity, including borrowings under our commercial paper program and our committed credit facilities, our ability to execute reverse repurchase transactions and corporate cash balances.  A reduction in the availability of any such financing during periods of disruption in the financial markets or otherwise may require us to sell client fund assets to satisfy our short-term funding requirements, which may result in the recognition of losses and adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. We are dependent upon various large banks to execute electronic payments and wire transfers as part of our client payroll, tax and other money movement services.  While we have contingency plans in place for bank failures, a systemic shutdown of the banking industry would impede our ability to process funds on behalf of our payroll, tax and other money movement services clients and could have an adverse impact on our financial results and liquidity.. We derive a significant portion of our revenues and operating income outside of the United States and, as a result, we are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates that could impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. 14. Our business could be negatively impacted as a result of actions by activist stockholders or others. We may be subject to actions or proposals from activist stockholders or others that may not align with our business strategies or the interests of our other stockholders.  Responding to such actions could be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our business and operations, and divert the attention of our Board of Directors and senior management from the pursuit of our business strategies.  Activist stockholders may create perceived uncertainties as to the future direction of our business or strategy which may be exploited by our competitors and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel, potential customers and business partners and may affect our relationships with current customers, vendors, investors and other third parties.  In addition, actions of activist stockholders may cause periods of fluctuation in our stock price based on temporary or speculative market perceptions or other factors that do not necessarily reflect the underlying fundamentals and prospects of our business.. Change in our credit ratings could adversely impact our operations and lower our profitability. The major credit rating agencies periodically evaluate our creditworthiness and have given us very strong, investment-grade long-term debt ratings and the highest commercial paper ratings.  Failure to maintain high credit ratings on long-term and short-term debt could increase our cost of borrowing, reduce our ability to obtain intra-day borrowing required by our Employer Services business, and adversely impact our results of operations.. If the distribution of CDK Global® common stock to ADP's stockholders does not qualify as a tax-free spinoff, we could incur substantial liabilities and may not be fully indemnified for such liabilities. On September 30, 2014, the Company completed the tax-free spinoff of its former Dealer Services business through the distribution of all of the issued and outstanding common stock of CDK Global, Inc. (\"CDK Global\") to ADP's stockholders.  CDK Global was formed to hold ADP's former Dealer Services business and, as a result of the distribution, became an independent public company trading under the symbol \"CDK\" on the NASDAQ Global Select Market.  Prior to completing the spinoff of CDK Global, ADP received an opinion from Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP, its counsel, to the effect that, based on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings set forth in the opinion, the distribution qualified as a transaction that is tax-free under Section 355 and other related provisions of the Internal Revenue Code.  ADP also received a private letter ruling from the IRS with respect to certain discrete and significant issues arising in connection with the transactions effected in connection with the separation and distribution.  The opinion and the ruling were based upon various factual representations and assumptions, as well as certain undertakings made by ADP and CDK Global.  If any of those factual representations or assumptions was untrue or incomplete in any material respect, any undertaking is not complied with, or the facts upon which the opinion and the ruling were based were materially different from the facts at the time of the distribution, the distribution may not qualify for tax-free treatment.  Although a private letter ruling from the IRS generally is binding on the IRS, the IRS did not rule that the distribution satisfies every requirement for a tax-free distribution. Opinions of counsel are not binding on the IRS or the courts. As a result, the conclusions expressed in an opinion of counsel could be challenged by the IRS, and if the IRS prevails in such challenge, the tax consequences to ADP's stockholders that received CDK Global common stock pursuant to the distribution could be materially less favorable.. If the distribution were determined not to qualify as a tax-free transaction under Section 355 of the Code, each United States holder of ADP common stock that received CDK Global common stock pursuant to the distribution generally would be treated as receiving a distribution taxable as a dividend in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares of CDK Global common stock received by such holder.  In addition, ADP generally would recognize gain with respect to the distribution and certain related transactions, and CDK Global could be required to indemnify ADP for any resulting taxes and related expenses, which could be material.  The distribution and certain related transactions could be taxable to ADP if CDK Global or its stockholders were to engage in certain transactions after the distribution.  In such cases, ADP or its stockholders that received CDK Global common stock pursuant to the spinoff could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities, and CDK Global could be required to indemnify ADP for any resulting taxes and related expenses, which could be material.  CDK Global may be unable to indemnify us fully for any such taxes and related expenses.. We may be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our ability to grow and provide our clients with competitive services is partially dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly motivated people with the skills to serve our clients.  Competition for skilled employees in the outsourcing and other markets in which we operate is intense and, if we are unable to attract and retain highly skilled and motivated personnel, results of our operations may suffer.. 15"
