[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors.. An investment in Avadel involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment decision. Avadel's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The market or trading price of Avadel's securities could decline due to any of these risks. In addition, please read \"Cautionary Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements\" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, where we describe additional uncertainties associated with Avadel's business and the forward-looking statements included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Please note that additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair Avadel's business and operations. Certain risks related specifically to the development and commercialization of Noctiva\231 are included below under the subheading \"- Risks Related to Avadel's Exclusive License Agreement for Noctiva\231.\". Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry. We depend on a small number of products and customers for the majority of our revenues and the loss of any one of these products or customers could reduce Avadel's revenues significantly.. We derive a majority of our revenues from sales of three products, Bloxiverz®, Vazculep® and Akovaz®. Additionally, we depend on a small number of customers for the majority of our revenues from these products. Four customers, accounted for approximately 93% of total revenues from sales of these products in 2017. These customers comprise a significant portion of the distribution network for pharmaceutical products in the U.S. Increased competition for any one of these products could result in significant downward pricing pressure and loss of market share by the Company resulting in lower revenues or loss of business. This distribution network is also continuing to undergo consolidation marked by mergers and acquisitions among wholesale distributors and retail drug store chains. As a result, a small number of large wholesale distributors and large chain drug stores control a significant share of the market. We expect that continuing consolidation may cause competitive pressures on pharmaceutical companies. The loss of any one of these products or the termination of our relationship with any of these customers or our failure to broaden our customer base could cause our revenues to decrease significantly and result in losses from our operations. Further, we may be unable to negotiate favorable business terms with customers that represent a significant portion of our revenues, and any such inability could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. We expect to rely on collaborations with third parties to commercialize certain of our products in development, in particular products using our drug delivery technologies, and such strategy involves risks that could impair our prospects for realizing profits from such products.. The Company expects that the commercialization of some of our products in development which utilize our drug delivery technologies will involve third-party collaboration partners for strategic alliances, licenses, product divestitures or other arrangements to commercialize these products, as we did with respect to the license to Elan for the OTC rights for LiquiTime® (see the discussion under the caption \"Products in Development with Partners\" in the \"Business of Avadel\" included in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K).  We may not be successful in entering into such collaborations on favorable terms, if at all, or our collaboration partners may not adequately perform under such arrangements, and as a result our ability to commercialize these products will be negatively affected and our prospects will be impaired.. Our products may not gain market acceptance.. Our products and technologies may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payor and medical communities. The degree of market acceptance of any product or technology will depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to:. • the scope of regulatory approvals, including limitations or warnings in a product's regulatory-approved labeling;. • in the case of any new \"unapproved-marketed-drug\" product we may successfully pursue, whether and the extent to which the FDA removes competing products from the market;. • demonstration of the clinical safety and efficacy of the product or technology;. • the absence of evidence of undesirable side effects of the product or technology that delay or extend trials;. • the lack of regulatory delays or other regulatory actions;. • its cost-effectiveness and related access to payor coverage;. • its potential advantage over alternative treatment methods;. • the availability of third-party reimbursement; and. • the marketing and distribution support it receives.. -. 22. -. If any of our products or technologies fails to achieve market acceptance, our ability to generate additional revenue will be limited, which would have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our products may not reach the commercial market for a number of reasons.. Drug development is an inherently uncertain process with a high risk of failure at every stage of development. Successful R&D of pharmaceutical products is difficult, expensive and time consuming. Many product candidates fail to reach the market. Our success will depend on the development and the successful commercialization of additional previously Unapproved Marketed Drug (\"UMD\") products, development of products that utilize our drug delivery technologies. If any of our additional UMD products or products incorporating our drug delivery technologies fails to reach the commercial market, our future revenues would be adversely affected.. Even if our products and current drug delivery technologies appear promising during development, there may not be successful commercial applications developed for them for a number of reasons, including:. • the FDA, the European Medicines Agency (\"EMA\"), the competent authority of an EU Member State or an Institutional Review Board (\"IRB\"), or an Ethics Committee (EU equivalent to IRB), or our partners may delay or halt applicable clinical trials;. • we or our partners may face slower than expected rate of patient recruitment and enrollment in clinical trials, or may devote insufficient funding to the clinical trials;. • our drug delivery technologies and drug products may be found to be ineffective or cause harmful side effects, or may fail during any stage of pre-clinical testing or clinical trials;. • we or our partners may find certain products cannot be manufactured on a commercial scale and, therefore, may not be economical or feasible to produce; or. • our products could fail to obtain regulatory approval or, if approved, fail to achieve market acceptance, fail to be included within the pricing and reimbursement schemes of the U.S. or EU Member States, or be precluded from commercialization by proprietary rights of third parties.. We must invest substantial sums in R&D in order to remain competitive, and we may not fully recover these investments.. To be successful in the highly competitive pharmaceutical industry, we must commit substantial resources each year to R&D in order to develop new products and enhance our technologies. In 2017, we spent $33,418 on R&D. Our ongoing investments in R&D for future products could result in higher costs without a proportionate increase, or any increase, in revenues. The R&D process is lengthy and carries a substantial risk of failure. If our R&D does not yield sufficient products that achieve commercial success, our future operating results will be adversely affected.. The development of several of our drug delivery technologies and products depend on the services of a single provider and any interruption of operations of such provider could significantly delay or have a material adverse effect on our product pipeline.. Currently, Avadel uses a single source provider for the development, supply of clinical materials and potentially the supply of commercial batches for several of our products incorporating our drug delivery technologies.  For details see the discussion in the \"Business - Information on the Company\" in this Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any disruption in the operations of this provider or if this provider fails to supply acceptable quantity and quality materials or services to us for any reason, such disruption or failure could delay our product development and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In case of a disruption, we may need to establish alternative manufacturing sources for our drug delivery products, and this would likely lead to substantial production delays as we build or locate replacement facilities and seek to satisfy necessary regulatory requirements.. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for the manufacturing of our products and certain raw materials used in our products and any failure of such suppliers to deliver sufficient quantities of supplies of product or these raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Currently, we depend on a limited number of CMOs for three products, Bloxiverz®, Vazculep® and Akovaz®, from which we derive a majority of our revenues and a single contract manufacturer for Noctiva\231. Additionally, we purchase certain raw materials used in our products from a limited number of suppliers, including a single supplier for certain key ingredients. If the supplies of these products or materials were interrupted for any reason, our manufacturing and marketing of certain products could be delayed. These delays could be extensive and expensive, especially in situations where a substitution was not readily available or required variations of existing regulatory approvals and certifications or additional regulatory approval. For example, an alternative supplier may be required to pass an inspection by the FDA, EMA or the competent authorities of EU Member States for compliance with. -. 23. -. current Good Manufacturing Practices (\"cGMP\") requirements before supplying us with product or before we may incorporate that supplier's ingredients into the manufacturing of our products by our contract, development, and manufacturing organizations (\"CDMOs\"). Failure to obtain adequate supplies in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If our competitors develop and market technologies or products that are safer or more effective than ours, or obtain regulatory approval and market such technologies or products before we do, our commercial opportunity will be diminished or eliminated.. Competition in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry is intense and is expected to increase. We compete with academic laboratories, research institutions, universities, joint ventures and other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including other companies developing drug delivery technologies or niche brand or generic specialty pharmaceutical products. Some of these competitors may also be our business partners.. Our drug delivery technologies compete with technologies provided by several other companies (for details, see the discussion in the \"Business of Avadel\" under \"Competition and Market Opportunities - Competition and Market Opportunities\" in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K). In particular, New Biological Entities (\"NCEs\") could be developed that, if successful, could compete against our drug delivery technologies or products. Among the many experimental therapies being tested in the U.S. and in the EU, there may be some that we do not now know of that may compete with our drug delivery technologies or products in the future. These new biological or chemical products may be safer or may work better than our products.. With respect to our UMD drug products, the FDA could approve generic versions or previously filed NDAs of our marketed products.. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technological, manufacturing, marketing, managerial and R&D resources and experience than we do. Furthermore, acquisitions of competing drug delivery companies by large pharmaceutical companies could enhance our competitors' resources. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in developing competing technologies and products, obtaining regulatory approval and gaining market share for their products more rapidly than we do.. Our revenues may be negatively affected by healthcare reforms and increasing pricing pressures.. Future prices for our pharmaceutical products and medical devices will be substantially affected by reimbursement policies of third-party payors such as government healthcare programs, private insurance plans and managed care organizations; by our contracts with the drug wholesalers who distribute our products; and by competitive market forces generally.  In recent years, third-party payors have been exerting downward pressure on prices at which products will be reimbursed, and the drug wholesale industry has been undergoing consolidation which gives greater market power to the remaining, larger drug wholesalers.  In the U.S., the new administration has made public and social media statements causing uncertainty as to future federal U.S. government policies regulating drug prices.  And the trend toward increased availability of generic products has contributed to overall pricing pressures in the pharmaceutical industry.  Any future changes in laws, regulations, practices or policies, in the drug wholesale industry, or in the prevalence of generic products may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. If we cannot keep pace with the rapid technological change in our industry, we may lose business, and our products and technologies could become obsolete or noncompetitive.. Our success also depends, in part, on maintaining a competitive position in the development of products and technologies in a rapidly evolving field. Major technological changes can happen quickly in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries. If we cannot maintain competitive products and technologies, our competitors may succeed in developing competing technologies or obtaining regulatory approval for products before us, and the products of our competitors may gain market acceptance more rapidly than our products. Such rapid technological change, or the development by our competitors of technologically improved or different products, could render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive.. We may fail to effectively execute our business strategy.. Our business strategy is to commercially launch Noctiva\231 during 2018, continue our UMD program, including by obtaining FDA approval for, and commercialize our fourth UMD product candidate as well as potentially additional future UMD product candidates, continue to seek FDA approval for FT 218 which is in Phase III clinical trial, continue to seek to develop and commercialize products using our drug delivery technologies, and develop and identify and acquire additional businesses or new product opportunities. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in any of these objectives; and a failure in any of these objectives could negatively impact our business and operating results.. In particular, we may be unable to successfully identify attractive acquisition candidates or complete any acquisitions, successfully integrate any acquired business, product or technology or retain any key employees of acquired businesses. Integrating any business,. -. 24. -. product or technology we acquire could be expensive and time consuming, and could disrupt our ongoing business and distract our management. If we fail to complete these acquisitions or successfully integrate any acquired businesses, products or technologies, our business will suffer. In addition, any amortization or charges resulting from the costs of acquisitions could negatively impact our operating results.. If we cannot adequately protect our intellectual property and proprietary information, we may be unable to sustain a competitive advantage.. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain and enforce patents and other intellectual property rights for our products and technology, including our drug delivery platforms, and to preserve our trade secrets and other proprietary information. If we cannot do so, our competitors may exploit our technologies and deprive us of the ability to realize revenues and profits from our products and technologies.. To the extent any of Avadel's products may benefit from protections afforded by patents, Avadel faces the risk that patent law relating to the scope of claims in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology fields is continually evolving and can be the subject of uncertainty and may change in a way that would limit protection. Our patents may not be exclusive, valid or enforceable. For example, our patents may not protect us against challenges by companies that submit drug marketing applications to the FDA, or the competent authorities of EU Member States or other jurisdictions in which we may attempt to compete, in particular where such applications rely, at least in part, on safety and efficacy data from our products or our business partners' products.  In addition, competitors may obtain patents that may have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business, or they may discover ways to circumvent our patents. The scope of any patent protection may not be sufficiently broad to cover our products or to exclude competing products.  Any patent applications that we have made to may make relating to our potential products or technologies may not result in patents being issued. Further, patent protection once obtained is limited in time, after which competitors may use the covered product or technology without obtaining a license from us. Because of the time required to obtain regulatory marketing approval, the period of effective patent protection for a marketed product is frequently substantially shorter than the duration of the patent.. Our partnerships with third parties expose us to risks that they will claim intellectual property rights on our inventions or fail to keep our unpatented products or technology confidential. We also rely on trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and know-how to develop, maintain and strengthen our competitive position.. To protect our products, trade secrets and proprietary technologies, we rely, in part, on confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, advisors and partners. These agreements may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets and other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure, or if others lawfully develop the information. If these agreements are breached, we cannot be certain that we will have adequate remedies. Further, we cannot guaranty that third parties will not know, discover or independently develop equivalent proprietary information or technologies, or that they will not gain access to our trade secrets or disclose our trade secrets to the public. Therefore, we cannot guaranty that we can maintain and protect unpatented proprietary information and trade secrets. Misappropriation or other loss of our intellectual property would adversely affect our competitive position and may cause us to incur substantial litigation or other costs.. The implementation of the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act of 2011 may adversely affect our business.. The Leahy-Smith America Invents Act of 2011 (\"AIA\") changes the current U.S. \"first-to-invent\" system to a system that awards a patent to the \"first-inventor-to-file\" for an application for a patentable invention. This change alters the pool of available materials that can be used to challenge patents in the U.S. and eliminates the ability to rely on prior research to lay claim to patent rights. Disputes will be resolved through new derivation proceedings and the AIA creates mechanisms to allow challenges to issued patents in reexamination, inter partes review and post grant proceedings. New bases and procedures may make it easier for competitors to challenge our patents, which could result in increased competition and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The AIA may also make it harder to challenge third-party patents and place greater importance on being the first inventor to file a patent application on an invention. The AIA amendments to patent filing and litigation procedures in the U.S. may result in litigation being more complex and expensive and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel.. Third parties may claim that our products infringe their rights, and we may incur significant costs resolving these claims.. Third parties may claim, that the manufacture, use, import, offer for sale or sale of our drug delivery technologies or our other products infringes on their patent rights and other intellectual property rights. For example, in connection with us seeking regulatory approval for FT 218, companies that produce any branded pharmaceutical versions of such products may allege that FT 218 infringes their patents or other intellectual property rights and file suit against us to prevent it from commercializing FT 218.  In response to any claim of infringement, we may have to seek licenses, defend infringement actions or challenge the validity or enforceability of those patent rights in court. If we cannot obtain required licenses, are found liable for infringement or are not. -. 25. -. able to have such patent rights declared invalid or unenforceable. We may be liable for significant monetary damages, encounter significant delays in bringing products to market or be precluded from the manufacture, use, import, offer for sale or sale of products or methods of drug delivery covered by the patents of others. We may not have identified, or be able to identify in the future, U.S. or foreign patents that pose a risk of potential infringement claims.. Any claims, with or without merit, that our products or drug delivery technologies infringe proprietary rights of third parties could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation or divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, any of which could disrupt our relationships with our partners and could significantly harm our operating results.. If we or our partners are required to obtain licenses from third parties, our revenues and royalties on any commercialized products could be reduced.. The development of certain products based on our drug delivery technologies may require the use of raw materials (e.g., proprietary excipient), active ingredients, drugs (e.g., proprietary proteins) or technologies developed by third parties. The extent to which efforts by other researchers have resulted or will result in patents and the extent to which we or our partners are forced to obtain licenses from others, if available, on commercially reasonable terms is currently unknown. If we or our partners must obtain licenses from third parties, fees must be paid for such licenses, which could reduce the net revenues and royalties we may receive on commercialized products that incorporate our drug delivery technologies.. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise confidential information and expose us to liability and cause our business and reputation to suffer.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store proprietary data, including intellectual property, as well as our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, on our networks. The secure maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information systems and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, investigations by regulatory authorities in the U.S. and EU Member States, disruption to our operations and damage to our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our business.. Failure to comply with domestic and international privacy and security laws could result in the imposition of significant civil and criminal penalties.. The costs of compliance with privacy and security laws, including protecting electronically stored information from cyber-attacks, and potential liability associated with failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to various domestic and international privacy and security regulations, including but not limited to HIPAA.  Additionally, we will be required to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\") (Regulation EU 2016/679) by May 25, 2018. HIPAA mandates, among other things, the adoption of uniform standards for the electronic exchange of information in common healthcare transactions, as well as standards relating to the privacy and security of individually identifiable health information, which require the adoption of administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect such information. In addition, many states have enacted comparable laws addressing the privacy and security of health information, some of which are more stringent than HIPAA.  GDPR will require Avadel to ensure that personal data Avadel collects is gathered legally and under strict conditions and protect such personal data from misuse and exploitation. If Avadel fails to comply with GDPR, we will face significant fines and penalties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our effective tax rate could be highly volatile and could adversely affect our operating results.. • our future effective tax rate may be adversely affected by a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including:. • the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed;. • increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including increases in the fair value of related party payables, write-offs of acquired in-process R&D and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions;. • changes in domestic or international tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws;. • adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns;. • changes in available tax credits;. • changes in share-based compensation expense;. • changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities;. -. 26. -. • the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; and. • the tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions that may cause fluctuations between reporting periods.. Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could impact our results of operations for future periods adversely.. We outsource important activities to consultants, advisors and outside contractors.. We outsource many key functions of our business and therefore rely on a substantial number of consultants, advisors and outside contractors. If we are unable to effectively manage our outsourced activities or if the quality or accuracy of the services provided by such third parties is compromised for any reason, our development activities may be extended, delayed or terminated which would have an adverse effect on our development program and our business.. We depend on key personnel to execute our business plan. If we cannot attract and retain key personnel, we may not be able to successfully implement our business plan.. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. During our operating history, we have assigned many key responsibilities within our Company to a relatively small number of individuals, each of whom has played key roles in executing various important components of our business. We do not maintain material key person life insurance for any of our key personnel. If we lose the services of Mr. Anderson, our Chief Executive Officer, or other members of our senior executive team, we may have difficulty executing our business plan in the manner we currently anticipate. Further, because each of our key personnel is involved in numerous roles in various components of our business, the loss of any one or more of such individuals could have an adverse effect on our business.. Risks Related to Our Exclusive License Agreement for Noctiva\231. Consumer purchases of Noctiva\231 are subject risks related to reimbursement from government agencies and other third parties.. We anticipate that a substantial majority of Avadel's Noctiva\231 sales will be reimbursed by third-party payors such as the Medicare Part D program in the U.S. and private health insurance companies. The commercial success of Noctiva\231 will therefore depend substantially on the availability and levels of reimbursements by these payors. Government authorities and private health insurance companies decide which drugs they will cover and establish payment levels, and we cannot guaranty the availability or levels of any such reimbursements for Noctiva\231. We do not anticipate that it will have material Medicare Part D reimbursement coverage until 2019. Patients in the Medicare Part D program make up at least 50% of the target patient population for Noctiva. The opportunity to target this patient population will therefore not be fully achievable until material Medicare Part D reimbursement coverage is achieved. If reimbursement for Noctiva\231 is unavailable or limited by governmental or private insurance programs, our Noctiva\231 business and its results of operations will suffer a material adverse effect.. Obtaining coverage and reimbursement approval of a product from a government or other third-party payor is a time-consuming and costly process that could require us to provide to the payor supporting scientific, clinical and cost-effectiveness data for Noctiva\231.. In recent years, government health programs such as Medicare and other third-party payors in the United States have increased their efforts to:. • limit the price of covered drugs, including by challenging the prices charged by manufacturers, or by seeking other cost saving measures such as mandatory discounts or rebates, stricter requirements for initial reimbursement approvals and other similar measures such as price increase restrictions;. • limit the use of covered drugs, including by shifting additional cost burden to patients, typically by requiring a co-payment or co-insurance percentage that increases significantly when the medicine is not covered or is not preferred; and. • limit the use of covered drugs by mandating treatment protocols that require additional healthcare administrative actions (in the form of a prior authorization for reimbursement) and or step edit therapy (requiring a patient to fail another therapy before getting access to the desired therapy).. Governmental agencies in the United States have enacted or adopted, are considering, and may in the future enact and adopt, various legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system, often with a particular focus on the pharmaceutical industry; and any changes resulting from such proposals may affect our ability to sell Noctiva\231 profitably.. -. 27. -. Any significant changes in the healthcare system in the United States would likely have a substantial impact on the manner in which we conduct our Noctiva\231 business and could have a material adverse effect on our commercialization efforts for Noctiva\231.. We may have overestimated the market opportunity for Noctiva\231 or we may not effectively exploit such market opportunity.. Our internal analyses may overstate the market opportunity in the United States for the drug desmopressin acetate, which we have licensed from Serenity and which we intend to market under the brand name \"Noctiva\231\". If one or more of the assumptions underlying our internal analyses are incorrect, the benefits we anticipate from the Serenity License Agreement for Noctiva\231 may not be realized or may be smaller than expected. We may also fail to effectively exploit the market opportunity for Noctiva\231, and such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and liquidity.. Significant safety or drug interaction problems could arise with respect to Noctiva\231.. Data supporting the marketing approvals and forming the basis for the safety warnings in the product labels were derived from controlled clinical trials of limited duration in limited patient populations with Noctiva\231 and from existing scientific knowledge and previous clinical assessments of the active pharmaceutical ingredient (desmopressin Acetate). Specifically, Noctiva\231's prescribing information includes a black box warning stating that it can cause hyponatremia. As Noctiva\231 is used over longer periods of time and by more patients, some of whom may have underlying health problems or may be taking other medicines, new issues relating to safety, tolerability, resistance or drug-interaction could arise, which may require Avadel to provide additional warnings or contraindications on product labels, or otherwise narrow approved indications for Noctiva\231. Further, additional information from ongoing research or clinical trials of Noctiva\231 may raise doubts or concerns about its efficacy. If serious safety, tolerability, resistance, drug-interaction, efficacy, or any other such concerns or issues arise with respect to Noctiva\231, sales of Noctiva\231 could be impaired, limited or abandoned.. Patents covering NoctivaTM that we license from Serenity under the Serenity License Agreement are subject to litigation and if Serenity is unsuccessful in defending this litigation, we may lose our exclusive rights to such patents or be required to obtain licenses from third parties to continue to develop and commercialize NoctivaTM, which would have a material adverse effect on our business.. Patents covering NoctivaTM that we have in-licensed from Serenity and which are listed in the Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations database published by the FDA's Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (commonly known as the \"Orange Book\") are subject to two pending litigation proceedings. In the first proceeding, which was initiated in April 2012 in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, Ferring B.V., Ferring International Center S.A., and Ferring Pharmaceuticals Inc., which we collectively refer to as Ferring, filed suit against Serenity Pharmaceuticals Corporation, Serenity Pharmaceuticals, LLC, Reprise Biopharmaceutics, LLC, Allergan, Inc., Allergan USA, Inc., Allergan Sales, LLC, Seymour H. Fein and Ronald V. Nardi, alleging a number of claims relating to U.S. Patent Nos. 7,799,761 (which is expected to expire in 2024), 7,579,321 (which is expected to expire in 2023), and 7,405,203 (which is expected to expire in 2023) (the \"Patents-in-Suit\"). In particular, Ferring has alleged that certain Ferring employees should be the sole named inventors of these patents or co-inventors with the current named inventors. In addition, Ferring has asserted related claims against the defendants for breach of common law duties, aiding and abetting breach of common law duties, breach of contract, intentional interference with contractual relations, trade secret misappropriation, unfair competition, conversion, fraudulent concealment and unjust enrichment. In March 2013, the district court dismissed all of Ferring's allegations except for Ferring's inventorship allegations. In April 2014, certain defendants filed certain counterclaims against Ferring. In September 2015, the district court granted the defendants' motion for summary judgment on Ferring's inventorship allegations, finding that Ferring was equitably estopped from asserting such allegations. Ferring may appeal the decisions dismissing its allegations. In the second proceeding, which was initiated in April 2017 in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware, Ferring filed suit against Serenity Pharmaceuticals, LLC, Reprise Biopharmaceutics, LLC and Allergan, Inc., seeking a declaratory judgment that the Patents-in-Suit are invalid and unenforceable and that Ferring's Nocdurna product does not infringe the Patents-in-Suit. No trial date has been set.. If Serenity is ultimately unsuccessful in defending Ferring's allegations in these litigation proceedings, we may lose valuable patent rights covering NoctivaTM. For example, if a court were to ultimately require that Ferring employees replace the current named inventors as the sole named inventors of the Patents-in-Suit or otherwise award ownership of the Patents-in-Suit to Ferring, then we would no longer have any rights to such patents and we would be required to obtain a license from Ferring to such patents to continue to develop and commercialize NoctivaTM. Such a license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we were unable to obtain any license to any of the Patents-In-Suit, we may be required to cease our development and commercialization of NoctivaTM. We could also be liable for damages to Ferring, which may be significant. Even if we were able to obtain such a license, we may only be non-exclusive and in such case we would not be able to enforce any of the Patents-in-. -. 28. -. Suit against competitors or other third parties, which may materially impair our ability to prevent competitors and other third parties from developing and commercializing products that are the same as or similar to NoctivaTM.. If a court were to ultimately find that Ferring employees should be added as named inventors to the Patents-in-Suit alongside the current named inventors or otherwise award Ferring co-ownership of the Patents-In-Suit, then we would no longer have exclusive rights to such patents. In such case, if we were unable to obtain an exclusive license to Ferring's co-ownership interest in the Patents-In-Suit, Ferring would be able to exploit such patents itself or license such rights to our competitors or other third parties. Moreover, we and Serenity would need the cooperation of Ferring as a co-owner of the Patents-In-Suit in order to enforce such patents against third parties, and such cooperation may not be provided.. If Ferring were ultimately successful in its challenges to the validity and enforceability of the Patents-In-Suit such that a court declares the Patents-in-Suit invalid or unenforceable, we would lose our ability to enforce such patents against third parties, which may materially impair our ability to prevent competitors and other third parties from developing and commercializing products that are the same as or similar to NoctivaTM. In addition, if Ferring were ultimately successful in its request for a declaration that its Nocdurna product does not infringe the Patents-in-Suit, then we would not be able to enforce the Patents-In-Suit to prevent the development and commercialization of Ferring's Nocdurna product.. Any of the foregoing could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or prospects.. We may not successfully increase awareness of nocturia and or the potential benefits of Noctiva\231.. Our ability to establish effective marketing and advertising campaigns for Noctiva\231 will be key to our success in commercializing the drug. If we are unable to increase awareness of nocturia (i.e., adult night-time non-incontinent urination, which Noctiva\231 is intended to reduce), the establishment of nocturnal polyuria as the critical etiology that must be treated despite any other co-morbidities and the potential benefits of Noctiva\231, our effort to build a substantial customer base for the drug may not be successful. In addition, our overall marketing activities or pricing strategies may not be successful in promoting or selling Noctiva\231. If our marketing and advertising programs are not adequate to support future growth of Noctiva\231 sales, its expected results may experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on a third-party supplier to manufacture Noctiva\231 and any failure of such supplier to deliver sufficient quantities of Noctiva\231 would have a material adverse effect on our business.. We will depend on a single CMO, Renaissance Lakewood, LLC, for the manufacturing and supply of Noctiva\231. If the supplies of Noctiva\231 are interrupted for any reason, our manufacturing and marketing of Noctiva\231 could be delayed. These delays could be extensive and expensive, especially in situations where a substitute is not readily available, or where additional regulatory approval is required. Failure to obtain adequate supplies in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our cost to commercialize Noctiva\231 could exceed our estimates or such costs may not provide the intended results.. Our past and future internal budgets, plans and projections may underestimate the costs it will incur to develop and commercialize Noctiva\231, including transaction and integration costs and the costs of other financial, business and strategic initiatives related to the Serenity License Agreement. Even if we adequately control such costs, our expenditures in developing and commercializing Noctiva\231 may not yield the desired results. Further, we may incur higher than expected operating costs, and we may encounter general economic and business conditions that adversely affect it relating to the Serenity License Agreement.. The development and commercialization of Noctiva\231 will likely require significant management attention, which could disrupt our business and adversely affect our financial results.. We anticipate that our management will devote substantial time and attention to develop and commercialize Noctiva\231. By diverting management's attention away from our other products, our ongoing operations could suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects.. -. 29. -. Risks Related to Regulatory and Legal Matters. Our products will generally be subject to regulatory approval. If we or our pharmaceutical and biotechnology company partners do not obtain such approvals, or if such approvals are delayed, our revenues may be adversely affected.. Although Noctiva has FDA approval (as described in the \"Business of Avadel\" included in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report), our fourth UMD product and our FT 218 product, as well as products that we may wish to market in the future may not gain regulatory approval and reach the commercial market for a variety of reasons.. In the U.S., federal, state and local government agencies, primarily the FDA, regulate all pharmaceutical products, including existing products and those under development. Neither we nor our pharmaceutical and biotechnology partners can control whether we obtain regulatory approval for any of these products or, if obtained, the timing thereof.  There may be significant delays in expected product releases while attempting to obtain regulatory approval for products incorporating our technologies. If we or our partners are not successful in timely obtaining such approvals, our revenues and profitability may decline.. Applicants for FDA approval often must submit to the FDA extensive clinical and pre-clinical data, as well as information about product manufacturing processes and facilities and other supporting information. Varying interpretations of the data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical testing could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval of a drug product. The FDA also may require us, or our partners to conduct additional pre-clinical studies or clinical trials.. Similarly, although we anticipate submitting applications for approval for our development products that rely on existing data to demonstrate safety and effectiveness, the FDA may determine that additional studies particular to our products are necessary. If the FDA requires such additional data, it would impact development plans for those products.. Changes in FDA approval policy during the development period, or changes in regulatory review for each submitted new product application, also may delay an approval or result in rejection of an application. For instance, under the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 (\"FDAAA\"), we or our partners may be required to develop Risk Evaluations and Mitigation Strategies (\"REMS\"), to ensure the safe use of product candidates. If the FDA disagrees with such REMS proposals, it may be more difficult and costly to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. Similarly, FDAAA provisions may make it more likely that the FDA will refer a marketing application for a new product to an advisory committee for review, evaluation and recommendation as to whether the application should be approved. This review may add to the time for approval, and, although the FDA is not bound by the recommendation of an advisory committee, objections or concerns expressed by an advisory committee may cause the FDA to delay or deny approval.. The FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process and may disagree with our or our partners' interpretations of data and information submitted in an application, which also could cause delays of an approval or rejection of an application. Even if the FDA approves a product, the approval may limit the uses or indications for which the product may be marketed, restrict distribution of the product or require further studies.. The FDA may also withdraw product clearances and approvals for failure to comply with regulatory requirements or if problems follow initial marketing. In the same way, medicinal products for supply on the EU market are subject to marketing authorization by either the European Commission, following an opinion by the EMA, or by the competent authorities of EU Member States. Applicants for marketing authorization must submit extensive technical and clinical data essentially in the form of the ICH Common Technical Document. The data is subject to extensive review by the competent authorities, and after such review the data may be considered inappropriate or insufficient. If applications for marketing authorization by pharmaceutical and biotechnology company partners are delayed or rejected, if the therapeutic indications for which the product is approved are limited, or if conditional marketing authorization imposing post-marketing clinical trials or surveillance is imposed, our revenues, operating results and liquidity may decline and earnings may be negatively impacted.. Our products are subject to continuing regulation, and we on our own, and in conjunction with our pharmaceutical partners, may be subject to adverse consequences if we or they fail to comply with applicable regulations.. We on our own and in conjunction with our pharmaceutical partners will be subject to extensive regulatory requirements for our and the co-developed products and product candidates, even if the products receive regulatory approval. These regulations are wide-ranging and govern, among other things:. • adverse drug experiences and other reporting requirements;. • product promotion and marketing;. • APIs and/or product manufacturing, including cGMP compliance;. • record keeping;. -. 30. -. • distribution of drug samples;. • required clinical trials and/or post-marketing studies;. • authorization renewal procedures;. • authorization variation procedures;. • compliance with any required REMS;. • updating safety and efficacy information;. • processing of personal data;. • use of electronic records and signatures; and. • changes to product manufacturing or labeling.. Clinical development of drugs is costly and time-consuming, and the outcomes are uncertain. A failure to prove that our product candidates are safe and effective in clinical trials, or to generate data in clinical trials to support expansion of the therapeutic uses for our existing products, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. We have made significant investments in our REST-ON Phase III clinical trial. Clinical trials are expensive and can take many years to complete, and the outcome is uncertain. Failure can occur at any time during the clinical trial process. The results of preclinical studies and early clinical trials of potential medicine candidates may not be predictive of the results of later-stage clinical trials.  Drug candidates in later stages of clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy traits despite having progressed through preclinical studies and initial clinical testing. Any failure or delay in completing our REST-ON Phase III clinical trial would prevent or delay the commercialization of our sodium oxybate product, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. In addition to issues relating to the results generated in clinical trials, clinical trials can be delayed or halted for a variety of reasons, including:. • obtaining regulatory approval to commence a trial;. • reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations (\"CROs\") and clinical trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites;. • obtaining institutional review board or ethics committee approval at each site;. • recruiting suitable patients to participate in a trial;. • having patients complete a trial or return for post-treatment follow-up;. • clinical sites dropping out of a trial;. • adding new sites; or. • manufacturing sufficient quantities of medicine candidates for use in clinical trials.. Patient enrollment, a significant factor in the timing of clinical trials, is affected by many factors including the size and nature of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the trial, the design of the clinical trial, competing clinical trials and clinicians' and patients' perceptions as to the potential advantages of the medicine candidate being studied in relation to other available therapies, including any new drugs or biologics that may be approved for the indications we are investigating. Furthermore, we rely and expect to rely on CROs and clinical trial sites to ensure the proper and timely conduct of our future clinical trials and while we have and intend to have agreements governing their committed activities, we will have limited influence over their actual performance.. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and if they do not properly and successfully perform their contractual, legal and regulatory duties, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals for or commercialize our drug product candidates.. We rely on CROs and other third parties to assist us in designing, managing, monitoring and otherwise carrying out our clinical trials, including with respect to site selection, contract negotiation and data management. We do not control these third parties and, as a result, they may not treat our clinical studies as a high priority, which could result in delays. We are responsible for confirming that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with its general investigational plan and protocol, as well as the FDA's and non-U.S. regulatory agencies' requirements, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to ensure that the data and results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. The FDA and non-U.S. regulatory agencies enforce good clinical practices through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, principal investigators and trial sites. If we, CROs or other third parties assisting us or our study sites. -. 31. -. fail to comply with applicable good clinical practices, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA or its non-U.S. counterparts may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications. We cannot assure you that, upon inspection, the FDA or non-U.S. regulatory agencies will determine that any of our clinical trials comply with good clinical practices. In addition, our clinical trials must be conducted with product produced under the FDA's cGMP regulations and similar regulations outside of the U.S. Our failure, or the failure of our product suppliers, to comply with these regulations may require us to repeat or redesign clinical trials, which would delay the regulatory approval process.. If third parties do not successfully carry out their duties under their agreements with us, if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to failure to adhere to our clinical protocols, including dosing requirements, or regulatory requirements, or if they otherwise fail to comply with clinical trial protocols or meet expected deadlines, our clinical trials may not meet regulatory requirements. If our clinical trials do not meet regulatory requirements or if these third parties need to be replaced, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated. If any of these events occur, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates or succeed in our efforts to create approved line extensions for certain of our existing products or generate additional useful clinical data in support of these products.. If we or our partners, including any CDMOs that we use, fail to comply with these laws and regulations, the FDA, the European Commission, competent authorities of EU Member States, or other regulatory organizations, may take actions that could significantly restrict or prohibit commercial distribution of our products and products that incorporate our technologies. If the FDA, the European Commission or competent authorities of EU Member States determine that we are not in compliance with these laws and regulations, they could, among other things:. • issue warning letters;. • impose fines;. • seize products or request or order recalls;. • issue injunctions to stop future sales of products;. • refuse to permit products to be imported into, or exported out of, the U.S. or the E.U.;. • suspend or limit our production;. • withdraw or vary approval of marketing applications;. • order the competent authorities of EU Member States to withdraw or vary national authorization; and. • initiate criminal prosecutions.. If FT 218 is approved by the FDA, we may not obtain orphan drug marketing exclusivity.. Orphan drug status may be granted by the FDA to certain products intended to treat diseases and conditions that affect fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States or, if they affect more than 200,000 individuals in the United States, there is no reasonable expectation of recovering the cost of developing and making the product available in the United States for the applicable disease or condition.. Our proposed product FT 218 obtained orphan drug designation from the FDA in January 2018. A product with orphan drug designation that subsequently receives the first FDA approval for the disease or condition for which it has such designation will be entitled to certain U.S. marketing exclusivity for a period of seven years. FT 218 would not be the first product with such FDA approval. However, in limited circumstances, including if the FDA concludes that FT 218 is safer, more effective or makes a major contribution to patient care, the FDA could award FT 218 with such marketing exclusivity. The orphan drug designation for FT 218 does not guaranty that the FDA would ultimately award this product with orphan drug status for purposes of marketing exclusivity. Among other factors, the FDA will consider the results of our FT 218 Phase III clinical trial with respect to the efficacy and safety of the product. Thus, there can be no assurance that the FDA will ultimately grant orphan drug status, or marketing exclusivity, for FT 218. In addition, even if such orphan drug marketing exclusivity rights were granted by the FDA, such rights may be lost if the FDA later determines that our request for such designation was materially defective or if the manufacturer is unable to assure sufficient quantity of the drug to meet the needs of patients with the rare disease or condition to be treated with the product.. We are subject to U.S. federal and state and international laws and regulations prohibiting \"kickbacks\" and false claims that, if violated, could subject us to substantial penalties, and any challenges to or investigation into our practices under these laws could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to, and thus could harm our business.. We are subject to extensive and complex U.S. federal and state and international laws and regulations, including but not limited to, health-care \"fraud and abuse\" laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws and regulations pertaining to government. -. 32. -. benefit program reimbursement, price reporting and regulations, and sales and marketing practices. These laws and regulations are broad in scope and subject to evolving interpretations, which could require us to incur substantial costs associated with compliance or to alter one or more of our sales or marketing practices. In addition, violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability, and financial condition. In the current environment, there appears to be a greater risk of investigations of possible violations of these laws and regulations. This increased risk is reflected by recent enforcement activity and pronouncements by the US Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services that it intends to continue to vigorously pursue fraud and abuse violations by pharmaceutical companies, including through the potential to impose criminal penalties on pharmaceutical company executives. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions.. Healthcare reform and restrictions on reimbursements may limit our financial returns.. Our ability to successfully commercialize our products and technologies may depend on the extent to which the government health administration authorities, the health insurance funds in the EU Member States, private health insurers and other third-party payor in the U.S. will reimburse consumers for the cost of these products, which would affect the volume of drug products sold by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that incorporate our technology into their products. Third party payor are increasingly challenging both the need for, and the price of, novel therapeutic drugs and uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved therapeutics. The commercial success of our products depends in part on the conditions under which products incorporating our technology are reimbursed. Adequate third-party reimbursement may not be available for such drug products to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investments in research and product development, which could materially and adversely affect our business. We cannot predict the effect that changes in the healthcare system, especially cost containment efforts, may have on our business. In particular, it is difficult to predict the effect of health care reform legislation enacted in the U.S. in 2010, certain provisions of which are still subject to regulatory implementation, further legislative change and ongoing judicial review. Any such changes or changes due to future legislation governing the pricing and reimbursement of healthcare products in the EU Member States may adversely affect our business.. Regulatory reforms may adversely affect our ability to sell our products profitably.. From time to time, the U.S. Congress, the Council of the European Union and the European Parliament, as well as the legislators of the EU Member States, adopt changes to the statutes that the FDA, the European Commission and the competent authorities of the EU Member States enforce in ways that could significantly affect our business. In addition, the FDA, the European Commission and the competent authorities of the EU Member States often issue new regulations or guidance, or revise or reinterpret their current regulations and guidance in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. It is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted or FDA, EU or EU Member State's regulations, guidance or interpretations changed, and what the impact of any such changes may be. Any such changes could have a significant impact on the path to approval of our proposed products or of competing products, and on our obligations and those of our pharmaceutical industry partners.. We and companies to which we have licensed, or will license our products or drug delivery technologies and subcontractors we engage for services related to the development and manufacturing of our products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Our and their failure to meet strict regulatory requirements could adversely affect our business.. We, and companies to which we license our products or drug delivery technologies, as well as companies acting as subcontractors for our product developments, including but not limited to non-clinical, pre-clinical and clinical studies, and manufacturing, are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA, other domestic regulatory authorities and equivalent foreign regulatory authorities, particularly the European Commission and the competent authorities of EU Member States. Those regulatory authorities may conduct periodic audits or inspections of the applicable facilities to monitor compliance with regulatory standards and we remain responsible for the compliance of our subcontractors. If the FDA or another regulatory authority finds failure to comply with applicable regulations, the authority may institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, including:. • warning letters or untitled letters;. • fines and civil penalties;. • delays in clearing or approving, or refusal to clear or approve, products;. • withdrawal, suspension or variation of approval of products; product recall or seizure;. • orders to the competent authorities of EU Member States to withdraw or vary national authorization;. • orders for physician notification or device repair, replacement or refund;. • interruption of production;. -. 33. -. • operating restrictions;. • injunctions; and. • criminal prosecution.. Any adverse action by a competent regulatory agency could lead to unanticipated expenditures to address or defend such action and may impair our ability to produce and market applicable products, which could significantly impact our revenues and royalties that we receive from our customers.. We may face product liability claims related to clinical trials for our products or their misuse.. The testing, including through clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing, and the use of our products may expose us to potential product liability and other claims. If any such claims against us are successful, we may be required to make significant compensation payments. Any indemnification that we have obtained, or may obtain, from CROs or pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies or hospitals conducting human clinical trials on our behalf may not protect us from product liability claims or from the costs of related litigation. Insurance coverage is expensive and difficult to obtain, and we may be unable to obtain coverage in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. We currently maintain general liability insurance and product liability and recall insurance. We cannot be certain that the coverage limits of our insurance policies or those of our strategic partners will be adequate. If we are unable to obtain sufficient insurance at an acceptable cost, a product liability claim or recall could adversely affect our financial condition. Similarly, any indemnification we have obtained, or may obtain, from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies with whom we are developing, or will develop, our products may not protect us from product liability claims from the consumers of those products or from the costs of related litigation.. If we use hazardous biological and/or chemical materials in a manner that causes injury, we may be liable for significant damages.. Our R&D activities involve the controlled use of potentially harmful biological and/or chemical materials, and are subject to U.S., state, EU, national and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of those materials and specified waste products. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials, including fires and/or explosions, storage tank leaks and ruptures and discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances. These operating risks can cause personal injury, property damage and environmental contamination, and may result in the shutdown of affected facilities and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. The occurrence of any of these events may significantly reduce the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility and adversely affect our operating results.. We currently maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance with limits that we believe to be commercially reasonable, but may be inadequate to cover any actual liability or damages.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Securities. Our share price has been volatile and may continue to be volatile.. The trading price of our shares has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile. The market value of an investment in our shares may fall sharply at any time due to this volatility. During the year ended December 31, 2017, the closing sale price of our ADSs as reported on the Nasdaq Global ranged from $8.03 to $11.57. During the year ended December 31, 2016, the closing sale price of our ADSs as reported on the NASDAQ National Market ranged from $7.85 to $14.89. The market prices for securities of drug delivery, specialty pharma, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies historically have been highly volatile. Factors that could adversely affect our share price include, among others:. • fluctuations in our operating results;. • announcements of technological partnerships, innovations or new products by us or our competitors;. • actions with respect to the acquisition of new or complementary businesses;. • governmental regulations;. • developments in patent or other proprietary rights owned by us or others;. • public concern as to the safety of drug delivery technologies developed by us or drugs developed by others using our platform;. • the results of pre-clinical testing and clinical studies or trials by us or our competitors;. • adverse events related to our products or products developed by pharmaceutical and biotechnology company partners that use our drug delivery technologies;. • lack of efficacy of our products;. -. 34. -. • litigation;. • decisions by our pharmaceutical and biotechnology company partners relating to the products incorporating our technologies;. • the perception by the market of specialty pharma, biotechnology, and high technology companies generally;. • general market conditions, including the impact of the current financial environment; and. • the dilutive impact of any new equity securities we may issue.. If we are not able to sustain profitability in the future, the value of our shares may fall.. We reported net income of $68.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 and net loss of $41.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2016.  We cannot predict if we will be able to sustain profitability. If we are unable to maintain a profit in future periods, the market price of our shares may fall. Our ability to operate profitably depends upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our direct control. These factors include:. • the demand for our drug delivery technologies and products;. • the level of product and price competition;. • our ability to develop new partnerships and additional commercial applications for our products;. • our ability to control our costs;. • our ability to broaden our customer base;. • the effectiveness of our marketing strategy;. • Our effective tax rate;. • the launch costs of Noctiva;. • the effectiveness of our partners' marketing strategy for products that use our technology; and. • general economic conditions.. We may require additional financing, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all, and which may result in dilution of the equity interest of the holders of our ADSs.. We may require additional financing to fund the development and possible acquisition of new products and businesses. We may consume available resources more rapidly than currently anticipated, resulting in the need for additional funding. If we cannot obtain financing when needed, or obtain it on favorable terms, we may be required to curtail our plans to continue to develop drug delivery technologies, develop new products, or acquire additional products and businesses. Other factors that will affect future capital requirements and may require us to seek additional financing include:. • the development and acquisition of new products and drug delivery technologies;. • the progress of our research and product development programs; and. • the timing of, and amounts received from, future product sales, product development fees and licensing revenue and royalties.. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to significantly reduce or refocus our product development efforts, resulting in loss of sales, increased costs and reduced revenues. Alternatively, to obtain needed funds for acquisitions or operations, we may choose to issue additional ADSs representing our ordinary shares, or issue equity-linked debt, or we may choose to issue preferred shares, in either case through public or private financings. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us and, in the case of such equity financings, may result in dilution to the holders of our ADSs.. We have broad discretion in the use of our cash and may not use it effectively.. Our management has broad discretion in the use of our cash, and may not apply our cash in ways that ultimately increase the value of any investment in our securities. We currently intend to use our cash to fund marketing activities for our commercialized products, to fund certain clinical trials for product candidates, to fund R&D activities for potential new product candidates, to acquire assets or businesses that we may identify as potentially beneficial to our business strategies, and for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes. As in the past we expect to invest our cash in available-for-sale marketable securities, including corporate bonds, U.S. government securities, other fixed income securities and equities; and these investments may not yield a favorable return. If we do not invest or apply our cash effectively, our financial position and the price of our ADSs may decline.. -. 35. -. We currently do not intend to pay dividends and cannot assure the holders of our ADSs that we will make dividend payments in the future.. We have never declared or paid a cash dividend on any of our ordinary shares or ADSs and do not anticipate declaring cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Declaration of dividends will depend upon, among other things, future earnings, if any, the operating and financial condition of our business, our capital requirements, general business conditions and such other factors as our Board of Directors deems relevant.. Provisions of our articles of association could delay or prevent a third-party's effort to acquire us.. Our articles of association could delay, defer or prevent a third-party from acquiring us, even where such a transaction would be beneficial to the holders of our ADSs, or could otherwise adversely affect the price of our ADSs. For example, certain provisions of our articles of association:. • permit our board of directors to issue preferred shares with such rights and preferences as they may designate, subject to applicable law;. • impose advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and director nominations to be considered at annual shareholder meetings; and. • require the approval of a supermajority of the voting power of the shares of our share capital entitled to vote generally at a meeting of shareholders to amend or repeal certain provisions of our articles of association.. We believe these provisions may provide some protection to holders of our ADSs from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics. These provisions are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. However, these provisions will apply even if some holders of our ADSs consider an offer to be beneficial and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our Board of Directors determines is in the best interest of the holders of our ADSs. These provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors.. In addition, several mandatory provisions of Irish law could prevent or delay our acquisition by a third party. For example, Irish law does not permit shareholders of an Irish public limited company to take action by written consent with less than unanimous consent. In addition, an effort to acquire us may be subject to various provisions of Irish law relating to mandatory bids, voluntary bids, requirements to make a cash offer and minimum price requirements, as well as substantial acquisition rules and rules requiring the disclosure of interests in our ADSs in certain circumstances.. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our ordinary shares at a premium over the market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our ADSs. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for holders of our ADSs to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our board of directors, and could depress the market price of our ADSs.. Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and might afford less protection to the holders of our ADSs.. Holders of our ADSs could have more difficulty protecting their interests than would the shareholders of a U.S. corporation.  As an Irish company, we are governed by the Irish Companies Act 2014, which differs in some significant, and possibly material, respects from provisions set forth in various U.S. state laws applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders, including provisions relating to interested directors, mergers and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors.. The duties of directors and officers of an Irish company are generally owed to the company only. Therefore, under Irish law shareholders of Irish companies do not generally have a right to commence a legal action against directors or officers, and may only do so in limited circumstances. Directors of an Irish company must act with due care and skill, honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the company. Directors must not put themselves in a position in which their duties to the company and their personal interests conflict and must disclose any personal interest in any contract or arrangement with the company or any of our subsidiaries. A director or officer can be held personally liable to the company in respect of a breach of duty to the company.. -. 36. -. Judgments of United States courts, including those predicated on the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States, may not be enforceable in Irish courts.. An investor in the U.S. may find it difficult to:. • effect service of process within the U.S. against us and our non-U.S. resident directors and officers;. • enforce United States court judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws against us and our non-U.S. resident directors and officers in Ireland; or. • bring an original action in an Irish court to enforce liabilities based upon the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our non-U.S. resident directors and officers.. Judgments of United States courts, including those predicated on the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States, may not be enforceable in Cayman Islands courts.. We have been advised by our Cayman Islands legal counsel, Maples and Calder, that the courts of the Cayman Islands are unlikely (i) to recognize or enforce against us or Avadel judgments of courts of the United States predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any State; and (ii) in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, to impose liabilities against us or Avadel predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any State, so far as the liabilities imposed by those provisions are penal in nature. In those circumstances, although there is no statutory enforcement in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, the courts of the Cayman Islands will recognize and enforce a foreign money judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits based on the principle that a judgment of a competent foreign court imposes upon the judgment debtor an obligation to pay the sum for which judgment has been given provided certain conditions are met. For a foreign judgment to be enforced in the Cayman Islands, such judgment must be final and conclusive and for a liquidated sum, and must not be in respect of taxes or a fine or penalty, inconsistent with a Cayman Islands judgment in respect of the same matter, impeachable on the grounds of fraud or obtained in a manner, and or be of a kind the enforcement of which is, contrary to natural justice or the public policy of the Cayman Islands (awards of punitive or multiple damages may well be held to be contrary to public policy). A Cayman Islands Court may stay enforcement proceedings if concurrent proceedings are being brought elsewhere.. Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and have to act through the Depositary to exercise those rights.. Holders of ADSs do not have the same rights as shareholders and, accordingly, cannot exercise rights of shareholders against us. The Bank of New York Mellon, as depositary, or the \"Depositary\", is the registered shareholder of the deposited shares underlying the ADSs. Therefore, holders of ADSs will generally have to exercise the rights attached to those shares through the Depositary. We will use reasonable efforts to request that the Depositary notify the holders of ADSs of upcoming votes and ask for voting instructions from them. If a holder fails to return a voting instruction card to the Depositary by the date established by the Depositary for receipt of such voting instructions, or if the Depositary receives an improperly completed or blank voting instruction card, or if the voting instructions included in the voting instruction card are illegible or unclear, then such holder will be deemed to have instructed the Depositary to vote its shares, and the Depositary shall vote such shares in favor of any resolution proposed or approved by our Board of Directors and against any resolution not so proposed or approved.. Our largest shareholders own a significant percentage of the share capital and voting rights of the Company.. As of February 16, 2017, Deerfield Capital and certain of its affiliates beneficially owned approximately 9.98% of Avadel's outstanding shares (in the form of ADRs). As of February 6, 2018, Brandes Investment Partners, L.P. and certain of its affiliates beneficially owned 7.99% of Avadel's outstanding shares (in the form of ADRs). As of February 13, 2018, Broadfin Capital and certain of its affiliates beneficially owned approximately 6.59% of our outstanding shares (in the form of ADRs).  As of November 1, 2017, Perceptive Advisors LLC and certain of its affiliates beneficially owned 5.4% of our outstanding shares (in the form of ADRs). To the extent these shareholders continue to hold a large percentage of our share capital and voting rights, they will remain in a position to exert heightened influence in the election of the directors of the Company and in other corporate actions that require shareholder approval, including change of control transactions.. Risks Related to the Notes. The conditional exchange feature of the Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. In the event the conditional exchange feature of the Notes is triggered, holders of Notes will be entitled to exchange the Notes at any time during specified periods at their option (see the discussion under the caption \"Recent Developments -- Issuance of Exchangeable Notes\" in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K). If one or more holders elect to exchange their Notes, unless we elect to satisfy our exchange obligation by causing to be delivered solely ADSs (other than paying cash in lieu of any fractional. -. 37. -. ADS), we would be required to settle a portion or all of our exchange obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders do not elect to exchange their Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital.. The accounting method for convertible and exchangeable debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as the Notes, could have a material effect on Avadel's reported financial results.. Under Accounting Standards Codification 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options, which we refer to as ASC 470-20, an entity must separately account for the liability and equity components of the convertible or exchangeable debt instruments (such as the Notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion or exchange in a manner that reflects the issuer's economic interest cost. However, entities must first consider the guidance in ASC 815-15, Embedded Derivatives (\"ASC 815-15\"), to determine if an instrument contains an embedded feature that should be separately accounted for as a derivative.  ASC 815 provides for an exception to this rule when convertible notes, as host instruments, are deemed to be conventional, as defined by ASC 815-40.  Should this exception apply, the effect of ASC 470-20 on the accounting for the Notes is that the equity component would be required to be included in the additional paid-in capital section of stockholders' equity on Avadel's consolidated balance sheet, and the value of the equity component would be treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of the Notes. As a result, Avadel would be required to record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense in current periods presented as a result of the amortization of the discounted carrying value of the Notes to their face amount over the term of the Notes. Avadel would report lower net income in its financial results because ASC 470-20 would require interest to include both the current period's amortization of the debt discount and the instrument's coupon interest, which could adversely affect Avadel's reported or future financial results, the trading price of the ADSs and the trading price of the Notes.. In addition, under certain circumstances, convertible or exchangeable debt instruments (such as the Notes) that may be settled entirely or partly in cash are currently accounted for utilizing the treasury stock method, the effect of which is that the ADSs deliverable upon exchange of the Notes are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the exchange value of the Notes exceeds their principal amount.  Under the treasury stock method, for diluted earnings per share purposes, the transaction is accounted for as if the number of ADSs that would be necessary to settle such excess, if we elected to settle such excess in ADSs, are issued.  Neither we nor Avadel can be sure that the accounting standards in the future will continue to permit the use of the treasury stock method.  If Avadel is unable to use the treasury stock method in accounting for the ADSs deliverable upon exchange of the Notes, then Avadel's diluted earnings per share would be adversely affected.. Exchanges of the Notes will dilute the ownership interest of Avadel's existing shareholders and holders of the ADSs, including holders who had previously exchanged their Notes and received ADSs upon exchange, to the extent our exchange obligation includes ADSs.. The exchange of some or all of the Notes will dilute the ownership interests of Avadel's existing shareholders and holders of the ADSs to the extent our exchange obligation includes ADSs. Any sales in the public market of the ADSs issuable upon such exchange of the Notes could adversely affect prevailing market prices of the ADSs and, in turn, the price of the Notes. In addition, the existence of the Notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the exchange of the Notes could depress the price of the ADS.. The fundamental change repurchase feature of the Notes may delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial takeover attempt of Avadel.. The indenture governing the Notes will require us to repurchase the Notes for cash upon the occurrence of a fundamental change and, in certain circumstances, to increase the exchange rate for a holder that exchanges its Notes in connection with a make-whole fundamental change. A takeover of Avadel may trigger the requirement that we repurchase the Notes and/or increase the exchange rate, which could make it more costly for a potential acquirer to engage in a combinatory transaction with us or Avadel. Such additional costs may have the effect of delaying or preventing a takeover of Avadel that would otherwise be beneficial to investors.. Dividends paid by the Parent may be subject to Irish dividend withholding tax. In certain circumstances, as an Irish tax resident company, Avadel will be required to deduct Irish dividend withholding tax (currently at the rate of 20%) from dividends paid to its shareholders. Shareholders that are resident in the U.S., EU countries (other than Ireland) or other countries with which Ireland has signed a tax treaty (whether the treaty has been ratified or not) generally should not be subject to Irish withholding tax so long as the shareholder has provided its broker, for onward transmission to Avadel's qualifying intermediary or other designated agent (in the case of shares held beneficially), or Avadel or its transfer agent (in the case of shares held directly), with all the necessary documentation by the appropriate due date prior to payment of. -. 38. -. the dividend. However, some shareholders may be subject to withholding tax, which could adversely affect the price of ordinary shares and the value of their Notes.. Risks Related to Recent Tax Legislation. The effect of comprehensive U.S. tax reform legislation on us, whether adverse or favorable, is uncertain.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R. 1) (the \"Tax Act\"). Among a number of significant changes to the U.S. federal income tax rules, the Tax Act reduces the marginal U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, limits the deduction for net interest expense, shifts the United States toward a more territorial tax system, and imposes new rules to combat erosion of the U.S. federal income tax base. While our analysis of the Tax Act's impact on our cash tax liability and financial condition has not identified any overall material adverse effect, we are still evaluating the effects of the Tax Act on us and there are a number of uncertainties and ambiguities as to the interpretation and application of many of the provisions in the Tax Act. In the absence of guidance on these issues, we will use what it believes are reasonable interpretations and assumptions in interpreting and applying the Tax Act for purposes of determining our cash tax liabilities and results of operations, which may change as we receive additional clarification and implementation guidance and as the interpretation of the Tax Act evolves over time. It is possible that the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") could issue subsequent guidance or take positions on audit that differ from the interpretations and assumptions that we have previously made, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash tax liabilities, results of operations and financial condition."
