[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. Our business faces many risks and uncertainties. Any of the risks discussed below, as well as factors described in other places in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or in our other filings with the SEC, could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, these items could cause our future results to differ from those in any of our forward-looking statements. These risks are not the only ones we face. Other risks that we do not presently know about or that we presently believe are not material could also adversely affect us.. Risks Related to our Business and Industry. We face strong competition. Our failure to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our industry is highly competitive. We compete with many domestic and foreign companies ranging from small start-up enterprises that might sell only a single or limited number of competitive products or compete only in a specific market segment, to companies that are larger and more established than us, have a broad range of competitive products, participate in numerous markets and have access to significantly greater financial and marketing resources than we do. Competitive factors include price, alternative clinical practices, innovation, quality and reputation. Our failure to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. We may not be successful in developing, acquiring or marketing competitive products and technologies.. Our industry is characterized by extensive research and development and rapid technological advances. The future success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to design, acquire and manufacture new competitive products and enhance existing products. Accordingly, we commit substantial time, funds and other resources to new product development, including research and development, acquisitions, licenses, clinical trials and physician education. We make these substantial. 5. Table of Contents. expenditures without any assurance that our products will obtain regulatory clearance or reimbursement approval, acquire adequate intellectual property protection or receive market acceptance. Development by our competitors of improved products, technologies or enhancements may make our products, or those we develop, license or acquire in the future, obsolete or less competitive which could negatively impact our net sales. Our failure to successfully develop, acquire or market competitive new products or enhance existing products could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. We cannot guarantee that any of our strategic acquisitions, investments or alliances will be successful.. We intend to supplement our growth through strategic acquisitions of, investments in and alliances with new medical technologies. The success of any acquisition, investment or alliance may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to identify and then properly assess and value the potential business opportunity or to successfully integrate any business we may acquire into our existing business. These types of transactions may require more resources and investments than originally anticipated, may divert management's attention from our existing business, may result in exposure to unexpected liabilities of the acquired business, and may not result in the expected benefits, savings or synergies. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and successfully make strategic acquisitions of, investments in and alliances with new medical technologies or that any past or future acquisition, investment or alliance will be cost-effective, profitable or successful.. We face significant uncertainty in the healthcare industry due to government healthcare reform in the United States and elsewhere.. In March 2010, comprehensive healthcare reform legislation was signed into law in the United States through the passage of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (the \"PPACA\"). Among other initiatives, the legislation implemented a 2.3% excise tax on the sales of certain medical devices in the United States, effective January 2013. In 2015, the excise tax had an impact on us of approximately $6 million, but was suspended for 2016. As a result of the passage of the Consolidated Appropriations Act in 2016, the medical device excise tax has been suspended for the 2017 and 2018 calendar years. In addition, the legislation implemented payment system reforms and significantly altered Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements for medical services and medical devices, which could result in downward pricing pressure and decreased demand for our products.. As additional provisions of healthcare reform are implemented, we anticipate that the U.S. Congress, regulatory agencies and certain state legislatures, as well as international legislators and regulators, will continue to review and assess alternative healthcare delivery systems and payment methods with an objective of ultimately reducing healthcare costs and expanding access. We cannot predict with certainty what healthcare initiatives, if any, will be implemented by states or foreign governments or what ultimate effect federal healthcare reform or any future legislation or regulation may have on our customers' purchasing decisions regarding our products. However, the implementation of new legislation and regulation may lower reimbursements for our products, reduce medical procedure volumes and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. In addition, the United States Government is currently evaluating the potential repeal and potential replacement of all or parts of the PPACA. Any such repeal or replacement may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our customers depend on third-party coverage and reimbursements. The failure of healthcare programs to provide coverage and reimbursement, or reductions in levels of reimbursement, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The ability of our customers to obtain coverage and reimbursements for products they purchase from us is important to our business. Demand for many of our existing and new medical products is, and will continue to be, affected by the extent to which government healthcare programs and private health insurers reimburse our customers for patients' medical expenses in the countries where we do business. Any reduction in the amount of reimbursements received by our customers could harm our business by reducing their selection of our products and the prices they are willing to pay.. In addition, as a result of their purchasing power, third-party payors are implementing cost-cutting measures such as seeking discounts, price reductions or other incentives from medical products suppliers and imposing limitations on coverage and reimbursements for medical technologies and procedures. These trends could compel us to reduce prices for our existing products and potential new products and could cause a decrease in the size of the market or a potential increase in competition that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. 6. Table of Contents. An inability to obtain key components, raw materials or manufactured products from third parties may have a material adverse effect on our business.. We depend on the availability of various components, raw materials and manufactured products supplied by others for our operations. If the capabilities of our suppliers and third-party manufacturers are limited or stopped, due to quality, regulatory or other reasons, it could negatively impact our ability to manufacture or deliver our products and could expose us to regulatory actions. Further, for quality assurance or cost effectiveness, we purchase from sole suppliers certain components and raw materials. Although there are other sources in the market place for these items, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for certain components or materials due to regulations and requirements of the FDA and other regulatory authorities regarding the manufacture of our products. The loss of any sole supplier or any sustained supply interruption that affects our ability to manufacture or deliver our products in a timely or cost effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. An interruption in our ability to manufacture products may have a material adverse effect on our business.. Many of our key products are manufactured at single locations, with limited alternate facilities, including in certain cases by third-party manufacturers. If one or more of these facilities experience damage, or if these manufacturing capabilities are otherwise limited or stopped due to quality, regulatory or other reasons, including natural disasters, prolonged power or equipment failures or labor dispute, it may not be possible to timely manufacture the relevant products at previous levels or at all. A reduction or interruption in any of these manufacturing processes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. An interruption in distribution or transportation may have a material adverse effect on our business.. We rely on various transportation channels for global distribution of our products through shipping ports located throughout the world. Labor unrest, political instability, the outbreak of pandemics, trade restrictions, transport capacity and costs, port security, weather conditions, natural disasters or other events could slow port activities and could adversely affect our business by interrupting product shipments and may increase our transportation costs if we are forced to use more expensive shipping alternatives.. We are subject to extensive government regulation, which may require us to incur significant expenses to ensure compliance.. Many of our products are subject to extensive regulation in the United States by the FDA and other regulatory authorities and by comparable government agencies in other countries concerning the development, design, approval, manufacture, labeling, importing and exporting and sale and marketing of many of our products. Furthermore, our facilities are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA and other federal, state and foreign government authorities, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain regulations, including the FDA's Quality System Regulation, which requires periodic audits, design controls, quality control testing and documentation procedures, as well as complaint evaluations and investigation. Regulations regarding the development, manufacture and sale of medical products are evolving and subject to future change. We cannot predict what impact those regulatory changes may have on our business. Failure to comply with applicable regulations could lead to manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages, delays in product manufacturing, product seizures, recalls, operating restrictions, withdrawal or suspension of required licenses, and prohibitions against exporting of products to, or importing products from, countries outside the United States and may require significant resources to resolve. Any one or more of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. We are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations that could result in significant liability, require us to change our business practices or restrict our operations in the future.. We are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local laws targeting fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry, including anti-kickback and false claims laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal or civil sanctions, including substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. These laws and regulations are wide ranging and subject to changing interpretation and application, which could restrict our sales or marketing practices. Furthermore, since many of our customers rely on reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid and other governmental programs to cover a substantial portion of their expenditures, our exclusion from such programs as a result of a violation of these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. 7. Table of Contents. We must obtain clearance or approval from the appropriate regulatory authorities prior to introducing a new product or a modification to an existing product. The regulatory clearance process may result in substantial costs, delays and limitations on the types and uses of products we can bring to market, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. In the United States, before we can market a new product, or a new use of, or claim for, or significant modification to, an existing product, we generally must first receive clearance or approval from the FDA and certain other regulatory authorities. Most major markets for medical devices outside the United States also require clearance, approval or compliance with certain standards before a product can be commercially marketed. The process of obtaining regulatory clearances and approvals to market a medical device can be costly and time consuming, involve rigorous pre-clinical and clinical testing, require changes in products or result in limitations on the indicated uses of products. There can be no assurance that these clearances and approvals will be granted on a timely basis, or at all. In addition, once a medical device has been cleared or approved, a new clearance or approval may be required before the medical device may be modified, its labeling changed or marketed for a different use. Medical devices are cleared or approved for one or more specific intended uses and promoting a device for an off-label use could result in government enforcement action. Furthermore, a product approval or clearance can be withdrawn or limited due to unforeseen problems with the medical device or issues relating to its application. The regulatory clearance and approval process may result in, among other things, delayed, if at all, realization of product net sales, substantial additional costs and limitations on the types of products we may bring to market or their indicated uses, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. We may incur product liability losses, litigation liability, product recalls, safety alerts or regulatory action associated with our products which can be costly and disruptive to our business.. The risk of product liability claims is inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of the medical products of the type we produce and sell. A number of factors could result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, a patient with respect to the products that we manufacture or sell, including physician technique and experience in performing the relevant surgical procedure, component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or information.. In addition to product liability claims and litigation, an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, a patient associated with our products could lead to a recall of, or issuance of a safety alert relating to, our products, or suspension or delay of regulatory product approvals or clearances, product seizures or detentions, governmental investigations, civil or criminal sanctions or injunctions to halt manufacturing and distribution of our products. Any one of these could result in significant costs and negative publicity resulting in reduced market acceptance and demand for our products and harm our reputation. In addition, a recall or injunction affecting our products could temporarily shut down production lines or place products on a shipping hold.. All of the foregoing types of legal proceedings and regulatory actions are inherently unpredictable and, regardless of the outcome, could disrupt our business, result in substantial costs or the diversion of management attention and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Economic conditions have affected and may continue to adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Disruptions in the financial markets and other macro-economic challenges affecting the economy and the economic outlook of the United States, Europe, Japan, China and other parts of the world may have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Economic conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending have caused and may continue to cause our customers to reduce, modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products, and we have observed certain hospitals delaying and prioritizing purchasing decisions, which has had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. In addition, as a result of economic conditions, our customers inside and outside the United States, including foreign governmental entities or other entities that rely on government healthcare systems or government funding, may be unable to pay their obligations on a timely basis or to make payment in full. If our customers' cash flow or operating and financial performance deteriorate or fail to improve, or if our customers are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of accounts receivable owed to us. These conditions also may have an adverse effect on certain of our suppliers who may reduce output or change terms of sales, which could cause a disruption in our ability to produce our products. Any inability of current and/or potential customers to pay us for our products or any demands by our suppliers for different payment terms may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. 8. Table of Contents. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Due to our international operations, we transact business in many foreign currencies and are subject to the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, including the Mexican peso, Japanese yen, Australian dollar and the Euro. Our financial statements are reported in U.S. dollars with international transactions being translated into U.S. dollars. If the U.S. dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of other countries where we sell our products, our U.S. dollar reported net sales and income will decrease. Additionally, we incur significant costs in foreign currencies and a fluctuation in those currencies' value can negatively impact manufacturing and selling costs. While we have in the past engaged, and may in the future engage, in various hedging transactions in attempts to minimize the effects of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, there can be no assurance that these hedging transactions will be effective. Changes in the relative values of currencies occur regularly and could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. We are exposed to price fluctuations of key commodities, which may negatively impact our results of operations.. We rely on product inputs, such as polypropylene and other commodities in the manufacture of our products. Prices of oil and gas affect our distribution and transportation costs. Prices of these commodities are volatile and have fluctuated significantly in recent years, which has contributed to, and in the future may continue to contribute to, fluctuations in our results of operations. Our ability to hedge commodity price volatility is limited. Furthermore, due to competitive dynamics, the cost containment efforts of our customers and third-party payors, and contractual limitations, particularly with respect to products we sell under group purchasing agreements, which generally set pricing for a three-year term, we may be unable to pass along commodity-driven cost increases through higher prices. If we cannot fully offset cost increases through other cost reductions, or recover these costs through price increases or surcharges, we could experience lower margins and profitability which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Cost-containment efforts of our customers, healthcare purchasing groups, third-party payors and governmental organizations could adversely affect our sales and profitability.. Many of our customers are members of GPOs, or integrated delivery networks (\"IDNs\"). GPOs and IDNs negotiate pricing arrangements with healthcare product manufacturers and distributors and offer the negotiated prices to affiliated hospitals and other members. Although we are the sole contracted supplier to certain GPOs for certain product categories, members of the GPO are generally free to purchase from other suppliers, and such contract positions can offer no assurance that sales volumes of those products will be maintained. In addition, initiatives sponsored by government agencies and other third-party payors to limit healthcare costs, including price regulation and competitive bidding for the sale of our products, are ongoing in markets where we sell our products. Pricing pressure has also increased in our markets due to consolidation among healthcare providers, trends toward managed care, governments becoming payors of healthcare expenses and regulation relating to reimbursements. The increasing leverage of organized buying groups and consolidated customers and pricing pressure from third-party payors may reduce market prices for our products, thereby reducing our profitability and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. We are subject to political, economic and regulatory risks associated with doing business outside of the United States.. Most of our manufacturing facilities are outside the United States in Mexico, France, Germany and Tunisia. We also use contract manufacturers to manufacture products on our behalf in China, Indonesia and Malaysia and source many of our raw materials and components from foreign suppliers. We distribute and sell our products in over 90 countries. In 2017, approximately 23% of our net sales were generated outside of North America and we expect this percentage will grow over time. Our operations outside of the United States are subject to risks that are inherent in conducting business internationally, including compliance with both United States and foreign laws and regulations that apply to our international operations. These laws and regulations include robust data privacy requirements, labor relations laws that may impede employer flexibility, tax laws, anti-competition regulations, import, customs and trade restrictions, export requirements, economic sanction laws, environmental, health and safety laws, anti-bribery laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions. Given the high level of complexity of these laws, there is a risk that some provisions may be violated inadvertently or through fraudulent or negligent behavior of individual employees, our failure to comply with certain formal documentation requirements or otherwise. In addition, these laws are subject to changes, which may require additional resources or make it more difficult for us to comply with these laws. Violations of the laws and regulations governing our international operations could result in fines or criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. Any such violations could include prohibitions on our ability to manufacture or distribute our products in one or more countries and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, our brand, our international. 9. Table of Contents. expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and prevent or mitigate these risks and manage difficulties as they arise.. We may be subject to trade protection measures that are being contemplated by the United States Government that may result in new or higher tariffs, import-export restrictions and taxes. Changes in, or revised interpretations of import-export laws or international trade agreements, along with new or increased tariffs, trade restrictions or taxation on income earned or goods manufactured outside the United States may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. In addition to the foregoing, engaging in international business inherently involves a number of other difficulties and risks, including:. • different local medical practices, product preferences and product requirements,. • price and currency controls and exchange rate fluctuations,. • cost and availability of international shipping channels,. • longer payment cycles in certain countries other than the United States,. • minimal or diminished protection of intellectual property in certain countries,. • uncertainties regarding judicial systems, including difficulties in enforcing agreements through certain non-U.S. legal systems,. • political instability and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts, expropriation of assets, economic instability and the impact on interest rates, inflation and the credit worthiness of our customers,. • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing non-U.S. operations.. These risks and difficulties, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. We have a significant amount of debt that could adversely affect our business.. Our indebtedness includes $250 million of 6.25% senior unsecured notes and $339 million owed on a term loan. This debt could have important consequences to us and our investors, including:. • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make interest payments on this debt,. • reducing the cash flow available to fund capital expenditures and other corporate purposes and to grow our business,. • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions,. • increasing the risk of a future downgrade of our credit rating, which could increase future debt costs and limit the future availability of debt financing,. • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds as needed or take advantage of business opportunities as they arise, and. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry and placing us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that may not be as highly leveraged.. To the extent that we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above could increase. In addition, our actual cash requirements in the future may be greater than expected. Our cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to repay all of the outstanding debt as it becomes due, and we may not be able to borrow money, sell assets or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms, or at all, to refinance our debt.. We may need additional financing in the future to meet our capital needs or to make acquisitions and such financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all.. We intend to increase our investment in research and development activities and make acquisitions. Accordingly, we may need to seek additional debt or equity financing. We may be unable to obtain any desired additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we lose a previously assigned credit rating or adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be. 10. Table of Contents. unable to fund our expansion, successfully develop or enhance products or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could negatively affect our business.. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights or may infringe the intellectual property rights of others.. We rely on patents, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property assets in the operation of our business. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights may not be sufficient. We cannot be sure that pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents or that patents issued or licensed to us will remain valid or prevent competitors from introducing similar competing technologies. Our ability to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights may be limited in certain countries outside of the United States in which we operate, which could make it easier for our competitors to develop or distribute similar competing technologies in those jurisdictions. In addition, our competitive position may be adversely affected by expirations of our significant patents, which would allow competitors to freely use our technology to compete with us.. We operate in an industry characterized by extensive patent litigation and competitors may claim that our products infringe their intellectual property rights. Resolution of patent litigation or other intellectual property claims is inherently unpredictable, typically time consuming and costly and can result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could prevent the manufacture and sale of the affected products or require us to make significant royalty payments in order to continue selling the affected products. Any one of these could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. At any given time we are involved as either a plaintiff or a defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which may not be known for prolonged periods of time. We can expect to face additional claims of patent infringement in the future.. We may be unable to attract and retain key employees necessary to be competitive.. Our ability to compete effectively depends upon our ability to attract and retain executives and other key employees, including people in technical, marketing, sales, and research and development positions. Competition for experienced employees, particularly for persons with specialized skills, can be intense. Our ability to recruit such talent will depend on a number of factors, including compensation and benefits, work location and work environment. If we cannot effectively recruit and retain qualified executives and employees, our business could be materially adversely affected.. Breaches of our information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We rely on information technology systems to process, transmit and store electronic information in our day-to-day operations. Our information technology systems may be subjected to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access attempts and cyber- or phishing-attacks. We also store certain information with third parties that could be subject to these types of attacks. These attacks could result in our intellectual property and other confidential information, including personal health information, being lost or stolen, disruption of our operations, loss of reputation and other negative consequences, such as increased costs for security measures or remediation costs and diversion of management attention. While we will continue to implement additional protective measures to reduce the risk of and detect future cyber incidents, cyber-attacks are becoming more sophisticated and frequent, and the techniques used in such attacks change rapidly. There can be no assurances that our protective measures will prevent future attacks that could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Risks Related to the Divestiture of our S&IP Business. We may not realize potential benefits from the Divestiture of the S&IP Business or the restructuring activities associated with the Divestiture.. There is no assurance that we will realize the potential benefits that we expect from the Divestiture or from the multi-phase restructuring plan (the \"Plan\") that is associated with the Divestiture. The Divestiture is expected to provide the following benefits, among others: (i) giving Halyard the ability to focus on strategic and operational plans as a pure-play medical devices-only company; (ii) accelerating Halyard's growth as a medical device company through the resources provided by the Divestiture; and (iii) allowing investors to evaluate the merits, performance and future prospects of Halyard as a growing medical device company. The Plan is intended to (i) align our organizational and management structure; (ii) enhance and restructure our information technology systems; and (iii) enhance and restructure our supply chain and go-to-market models.. Following the Divestiture and implementation of the Plan, we may not achieve these and other anticipated benefits for a variety of reasons, including, among others:. 11. Table of Contents. • the separation of the S&IP business may require significant amounts of management's time and effort, which may divert management's attention away from Halyard's Device business,. • the replacement of our information technology infrastructure may result in substantial additional costs and business interruptions,. • the replacement of our corporate brand name may result in substantial additional costs and may not be well received by our customers in the market place,. • our business will be significantly less diversified than prior to the Divestiture.. If we fail to achieve some or all the benefits expected to result from the Divestiture and the Plan, or if such benefits are delayed, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected and the value of Halyard common stock could be adversely impacted.. As we build our information technology infrastructure and transition our data to our own systems, we could incur substantial additional costs and experience temporary business interruption.. Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, we are transferring ownership of our existing information technology infrastructure to the Buyer and replacing such information technology infrastructure to support our critical business functions, including systems relating to accounting and reporting, manufacturing process control, customer service, inventory control and distribution. The replacement process involves technical risks and business uncertainties, including whether we have the technological capacity to replace the system in full and the financial and operational capacity to continue our business during the replacement process. Although we have conducted discreet tests of our ability to conduct the process, such risks remain and there can be no assurance that the replacement process will occur within the anticipated timing, or at all. We may incur temporary interruptions in business operations if we cannot effectively replace our existing transactional and operational systems and data centers. We may not be successful in effectively and efficiently implementing our replacement systems and transitioning our data, and we may incur substantially higher costs for replacement than currently anticipated. In addition, the replacement process may result in (i) disruption to unrelated parts of our business, (ii) loss of employees or customers, (iii) exposure to unanticipated liabilities or (iv) assumption of ongoing obligations and liabilities following the completion of the process. Our failure to avoid operational interruptions, losses of employees or customers, or unanticipated liabilities as we replace our information technology infrastructure could disrupt or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Following the Divestiture, we will be required to rebrand the Company and many of our products which will likely involve substantial costs and may not be favorably received by our customers.. Following the Divestiture, we will no longer own the \"Halyard Health\" brand name, or any variation of the name, logos and related intellectual property rights. We will likely incur substantial costs to rebrand the Company and many of our products worldwide, which also requires regulatory product registration costs. Rebranding efforts may not be complete before the agreement with the Buyer allowing us to use the \"Halyard\" brand expires, potentially causing substantial inventory write-offs. In addition, we cannot assure you that our customers will be receptive to our proposed rebranding. A failure in our rebranding efforts may affect our ability to attract and retain customers following the Divestiture, resulting in reduced revenues.. The transition services to be provided to us by the Buyer for a limited time may be difficult for us to replace without operational problems or additional cost.. The Purchase Agreement provides for provision of transition services to us by the Buyer throughout a transition period. After the expiration of the transition services agreement, we may experience operational difficulties and increased costs if we are unable to perform those services or obtain them from a third party on reasonable terms and conditions.. The transition services to be provided by us to the Buyer for a limited time may draw attention and resources away from our ongoing business.. The Purchase Agreement requires our provision of transition services to the Buyer throughout a transition period, which will require significant time, attention and resources of our senior management and other employees within Halyard, potentially diverting their attention from other aspects of our business. We will be bound to comply with the terms of the transition services agreement, and at times compliance with this agreement will consume Halyard's focus and resources that would otherwise be invested into maintaining and growing our business.. 12. Table of Contents. Some of the shared employees who are important to the remaining business will be transferred to the Buyer, which may require us to replace employees and incur consequent additional costs or experience operational difficulties.. We are dependent on the experience and industry knowledge of our officers and employees to execute our business plans. The Divestiture will require that we share certain employees with the Buyer during the term of the transition services agreement and the replacement of our information technology infrastructure and that we transfer certain employees to the Buyer both at the closing of the Divestiture and at the conclusion of the information technology process. There may be uncertainty around the duties of our shared employees, which may cause operational difficulties or may cause some of such shared employees to leave Halyard. Transfer of employees to the Buyer may cause loss of institutional knowledge and we may have difficulties finding employees to replace such transferred employees. Current and prospective employees of Halyard may experience uncertainty about their future roles as shared employees or transferred employees, which may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain talent going forward. Our success during and after the Divestiture will depend in part on our ability to effectively share certain employees, retain key management personnel and integrate future employees. The operational difficulties surrounding our use of shared employees and the loss of knowledge and employees and difficulties in hiring new employees could disrupt our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Following the Divestiture, we may experience increased costs resulting from decreased purchasing power, which could decrease our overall profitability and cash flow.. Prior to the Divestiture, we are able to take advantage of our size and purchasing power in procuring goods, services and technology, such as management information services, health insurance, employee benefits, payroll administration, risk management, tax and other services. Following the Divestiture, we may have to pay higher costs for certain materials used in our products or services necessary to operate our business due to a decline in purchasing scale if we are unable to obtain other similar goods, services and technology at prices or on terms as favorable as those obtained prior to the Divestiture.. Risks Related to Ownership of Halyard Common Stock. We cannot guarantee that our stock price will not decline or fluctuate significantly.. The price at which Halyard common stock trades has and may continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price, or fluctuations in price, for Halyard common stock may be negatively influenced by many factors, including:. • actual or unanticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results,. • our failure to achieve the quarterly financial results forecast provided from time to time by the securities analysts who cover our stock,. • the outcome of litigation and enforcement actions,. • developments generally affecting the healthcare industry,. • changes in market valuations of comparable companies,. • the amount of our indebtedness,. • general economic, industry and market conditions,. • the depth and liquidity of the market for Halyard common stock,. • price fluctuations in key commodities,. • fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates,. • our dividend policy, and. • perceptions of or speculations by the press or investment community.. These and other factors may lower the market price of Halyard common stock, regardless of our actual financial condition or operating performance.. We have no present intention to pay dividends on Halyard common stock.. We have no present intention to pay dividends on Halyard common stock. Any determination to pay dividends to holders of Halyard common stock will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on many factors, including our. 13. Table of Contents. financial condition, results of operations, projections, liquidity, earnings, legal requirements, restrictions in our debt agreements and other factors that our Board of Directors deems relevant.. Your percentage of ownership in Halyard may be diluted in the future.. In the future, your percentage ownership in Halyard may be diluted because of equity issuances for acquisitions, capital market transactions or otherwise, including equity awards that we may grant to our directors, officers and employees. We also anticipate that our compensation committee will grant stock options or other equity based awards to our employees in the future. These awards will have a dilutive effect on existing stockholders and on our earnings per share, which could adversely affect the market price of shares of Halyard common stock.. In addition, our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of Halyard stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designation, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including preferences over Halyard common stock with respect to dividends and distributions, as our Board of Directors generally may determine. If our Board of Directors were to approve the issuance of preferred stock in the future, the terms of one or more classes or series of such preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of Halyard common stock. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we could assign to Halyard preferred stock could affect the residual value of Halyard common stock.. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and of Delaware law may make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our Board of Directors and may discourage hostile takeover attempts which some of our stockholders may consider to be beneficial.. Certain provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and those contained in Delaware law may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if our Board of Directors determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of us and our stockholders. These provisions include, among other things, the following:. • the division of our Board of Directors into three classes, each with three-year staggered terms,. • the ability of our Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms, including preferences and voting rights, of those shares without stockholder approval,. • the inability of our stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders,. • stockholder action may be taken only at a special or regular meeting of stockholders,. • advance notice procedures for nominating candidates to our Board of Directors or presenting matters at stockholder meetings,. • stockholder removal of directors only for cause and only by a supermajority vote,. • the ability of our Board of Directors, and not our stockholders, to fill vacancies on our Board of Directors, and. • supermajority voting requirements to amend our by-laws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and to engage in certain types of business combinations.. While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of our company to negotiate with our Board of Directors, they could enable the Board of Directors to hinder or frustrate a transaction that some, or a majority, of the stockholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. We are also subject to Delaware laws that could have similar effects. One of these laws prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with a significant stockholder unless specific conditions are met."
