[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to Our Regulatory Environment. Our businesses are subject to substantial regulation by federal, state and local regulatory agencies and our businesses, results of operations and prospects may be materially adversely affected by legislative or regulatory changes, as well as liability under, or any future inability to comply with, existing or future regulations or requirements.. The operations of our businesses are subject to, and influenced by, complex and comprehensive federal, state and local regulation and legislation, including regulations promulgated by state utility commissions and the FERC. This extensive regulatory and legislative framework, portions of which are more specifically identified in the following risk factors, regulates, among other things and to varying degrees, the industries in which our subsidiaries operate, our business segments, rates for our products and services, financings, capital structures, cost structures, construction, environmental obligations (including in respect of, among others, air emissions, water consumption, water discharge, protections for wildlife and humans, nuisance prohibitions and allowances, and regulation of gas infrastructure operations, and associated environmental and facility permitting), development and operation of electric generation facilities and electric and gas transmission and distribution facilities, natural gas transportation, processing and storage facilities, acquisition, disposal, depreciation and amortization of facilities and other assets, service reliability, hedging, derivatives transactions and commodities trading.. In our business planning and in the management of our subsidiaries' operations, we must address the effects of regulation on our businesses, including the significant and increasing compliance costs imposed on our operations as a result of such regulation, and any inability or failure to do so timely and adequately could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The federal, state and local political and economic environment has had, and may in the future have, an adverse effect on regulatory decisions with negative consequences for our businesses. These decisions may require, for example, our businesses to cancel or delay planned development activities, to reduce or delay other planned capital expenditures or investments or otherwise incur costs that we may not be able to recover through rates, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows of our businesses. In addition, changes in the nature of the regulation of our business could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We are unable to predict future legislative or regulatory changes, initiatives or interpretations, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to respond adequately or sufficiently quickly to such changes, although any such changes, initiatives or interpretations may increase costs and competitive pressures on us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. There can be no assurance that we will be able to respond adequately or sufficiently quickly to such rules and developments, or to any other changes that reverse or restrict the competitive restructuring of the energy industry in those jurisdictions in which such restructuring has occurred. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our businesses are subject to the jurisdiction of various federal, state and local regulatory agencies including, but not limited to, the FERC, the CFTC, the DOE, and the EPA. Further, Networks' regulated utilities in New York, Maine, Connecticut and Massachusetts are subject to the jurisdiction of the NYPSC, the MPUC, the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation, the Maine Department of Environmental Protection, the PURA, the CSC, the DEEP, and the DPU. These regulatory agencies cover a wide range of business activities, including, among other items, the retail and wholesale rates for electric energy, capacity and ancillary services, and for the transmission and distribution of these products, the costs charged to Networks' customers through tariffs including cost recovery clauses, the terms and conditions of Networks' services, procurement of electricity for Networks' customers, issuances of securities, the provision of services by affiliates and the allocation of those service costs, certain accounting matters, and certain aspects of the siting, construction and transmission and distribution systems. The FERC has the authority to impose penalties, which could be substantial, for violations of the FPA, the NGA, or related rules, including reliability and cyber security rules as described in further detail below. The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, or the SEC, may enact new accounting standards that could impact the way we are required to record revenue, expenses, assets and liabilities. Certain regulatory agencies have the authority to review and disallow recovery of costs that they consider excessive or imprudently incurred and to determine the level of return that our businesses are permitted to earn on invested capital.. The regulatory process, which may be adversely affected by the political, regulatory and economic environment in New York, Maine, Connecticut and Massachusetts, as applicable, may limit our ability to increase earnings and does not provide any assurance as to achievement of authorized or other earnings levels.  The disallowance of the recovery of costs incurred by us or a decrease in the rate of return that we are permitted to earn on our invested capital could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation, financial condition and cash flows.  Certain of these regulatory agencies also have the authority to audit the management and operations of our businesses in New York, Maine, Connecticut and Massachusetts and require or recommend operational changes.  Such audits and post-audit work requires the attention of our management and employees and may divert their attention from other regulatory, operational or financial matters.  The last management audit of UI by PURA was completed in 2015.  This audit resulted in 64 recommendations. The last management audit of CNG and SCG was completed in 2016. This audit resulted in approximately 94 recommendations. The. 27. NYPSC completed an operations staffing audit of all NY utilities in January 2017. The audit resulted in 17 specific recommendations for NYSEG and RG&E and one general recommendation for all NY utilities. The NYPSC initiated a management audit of NYSEG and RG&E in 2017. The audit is expected to be completed in early 2018. We cannot predict the outcome of these audits.. As previously described, we are subject to a variety of federal, state, local laws and regulations. The introduction of new laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations, or the interpretation thereof, may alter the environment in which we do business and could increase the costs of doing business for us or restrict our actions and adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. Any failure to meet the reliability standards mandated by NERC could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation, financial condition and cash flows.. As a result of the EPA act 2005, owners, operators and users of bulk electric systems are subject to mandatory reliability standards developed by NERC and are subject to oversight by the FERC in the U.S. and governmental authorities in Canada. The standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure that the bulk electric system operates reliably. Networks' and Renewables' businesses have been, and will continue to be, subject to routine audits and monitoring with respect to compliance with applicable NERC reliability standards, including standards approved by the FERC that could result in an increase in the number of assets (including cyber-security assets) designated as \"BES Cyber Systems,\" which would subject such assets to NERC cyber-security standards. The implementation of the Balancing Authority registration for the Northwest Renewable assets in 2018 will result in increased NERC compliance requirements and additional compliance risks including increase in assets, budgets and experienced resources. This new registration as a Balancing Authority also changes the NERC audit cycle from 6 years down to 3 years for Renewables and may impact other AVANGRID NERC registrations at Networks.  NERC and the FERC can be expected to continue to refine existing reliability standards as well as develop and adopt new reliability standards. Compliance with modified or new reliability standards may subject Networks' and/or Renewables' businesses to new requirements resulting in higher operating costs and/or increased capital expenditures. If Networks' and/or Renewables' businesses were found not to be in compliance with the mandatory reliability standards, it could be subject to penalties of up to $1.2 million per day per violation. Both the costs of regulatory compliance and the costs that may be imposed as a result of any actual or alleged compliance failures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation, financial condition, reputation and prospects. UIL will have an onsite NERC CIP audit in 2018.. The NYPSC has initiated a proceeding that may result in the alteration of the public utility model in New York State and could materially and adversely impact our business and operations in New York State.. In April 2014, the NYPSC commenced a proceeding titled REV, which is an initiative to reform New York State's energy industry and regulatory practices. REV has followed several simultaneous paths, including a formal Track 1 dealing with market design and platform technology and Track 2 dealing with regulatory reform. REV's objectives include the promotion of more efficient use of energy, increased utilization of renewable energy resources such as wind and solar in support of New York State's renewable energy goals, and wider deployment of \"distributed\" energy resources, such as micro grids, on-site power supplies, and storage. Track 1 of the REV initiative involves the examination of the role that distribution utilities will have in the enablement of market-based deployment of DER to promote load management, system efficiency, and peak load reductions. NYSEG and RG&E are participating in all aspects of the REV initiative with other New York utilities as well as providing their unique perspective. PSC staff has conducted public statement hearings across New York State regarding REV.. Various other REV-related proceedings have also been initiated by the PSC, each of which is following its own schedule. These proceedings include the Clean Energy Fund, Demand Response Tariffs, Community Choice Aggregation, Large Scale Renewables, and Community Distributed Generation. As part of this initiative, NYSEG and RG&E entered into agreements with New York State Energy Research and Development Authority, or NYSERDA, for Renewable Energy Credits, or RECs and Zero-Emission Credits, or ZECs in 2017. Additionally, the PSC has issued an order requiring New York utilities, including NYSEG and RG&E, to implement energy storage projects within distribution substations prior to December 31, 2018.. Track 2 of the REV initiative is also underway, and through a NYPSC Staff Whitepaper review process, is examining potential changes in current regulatory, tariff, market design and incentive structures which could better align utility interests with achieving New York State and NYPSC policy objectives. New York utilities will also be addressing related regulatory issues in their individual rate cases. A Track 2 order was issued in May 2016, and includes guidance related to the potential for Earnings adjustment mechanisms (EAMs), platform service revenues, innovative rate designs, and data utilization and security. The companies, in December 2016, filed a proposal for the implementation of EAMs in the areas of system efficiency, energy efficiency, interconnections, and clean air.  NYSEG and RG&E continue to engage through a number of working groups that have been established to assist the implementation of the DSIP items and delivering the Value of DER/Net Metering changes.. 28. We are not able to predict the outcome of the REV proceeding or its impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. While the end result of the REV process at the NYPSC remains unclear, it could alter the utility model in New York in a manner that could create material adverse impacts on our businesses and operations in New York.. Changes in regulatory and/or legislative policy could negatively impact Networks' transmission planning and cost allocation.. The existing FERC-approved ISO-NE, transmission tariff allocates the costs of transmission facilities that provide regional benefits to all customers of participating transmission-owning utilities in New England. As new investment in regional transmission infrastructure occurs in any one state, its cost is shared across New England in accordance with a FERC-approved formula found in the transmission tariff. Participating New England transmission owners' agreement to this regional cost allocation is set forth in the transmission operating agreement. This agreement can be modified with the approval of a majority of the transmission-owning utilities and approval by the FERC. In addition, other parties, such as state regulators, may seek certain changes to the regional cost allocation formula, which could have adverse effects on the rates Networks' distribution companies in New England charge their retail customers. FERC has found that the New England rate protocols lacked transparency and have established a hearing and settlement procedures.  We cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding.. The FERC has issued rules requiring all RTOs, and transmission owning utilities to make compliance changes to their tariffs and contracts in order to further encourage the construction of transmission for generation, including renewable generation. This compliance will require RTOs (such as ISO-NE and NYISO) and the transmission owners in New England and New York to develop methodologies that allow for regional planning and cost allocation for transmission projects chosen in the regional plan that are designed to meet public policy goals such as reducing greenhouse gas emissions or encouraging renewable generation. Such compliance may also allow non-incumbent utilities and other entities to participate in the planning and construction of new projects in Networks' service areas and regionally.. Changes in RTO tariffs, transmission owners' agreements, or legislative policy, or implementation of these new FERC planning rules, could adversely affect our transmission planning, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. We are subject to numerous environmental laws, regulations and other standards, including rules and regulations with respect to climate change, which could result in capital expenditures, increased operating costs and various liabilities, and could require us to cancel or delay planned projects or limit or eliminate certain operations.. Our businesses are subject to environmental laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality and usage, climate change, emissions of greenhouse gases (including, but not limited to carbon dioxide), waste management, hazardous wastes (including the clean-up of former manufactured gas and electric generation facilities), marine, avian and other wildlife mortality and habitat protection, historical artifact preservation, natural resources and health and safety (including, but not limited to, electric and magnetic fields from power lines and substations, and ice throw, shadow flicker and noise related to wind turbines) that could, among other things, prevent or delay the development of power generation, power or natural gas transmission, or other infrastructure projects, restrict the output of some existing facilities, limit the availability and use of some fuels required for the production of electricity, require additional pollution control equipment, and otherwise increase costs, increase capital expenditures and limit or eliminate certain operations. There are significant capital, operating and other costs associated with compliance with these environmental statutes, rules and regulations, and those costs could be even more significant in the future as a result of new legislation. For example, new laws, regulations or treaties relating to climate change could mandate new or increased requirements to control or reduce the emission of greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide, taxes or fees on fossil fuels or emissions, cap and trade programs, emission limits and clean or renewable energy standards or mandates that require curtailment of operations for certain periods of time due to potential electromagnetic interference. Violations of current or future laws, rules, regulations or other standards could expose our subsidiaries to regulatory and legal proceedings, disputes with, and legal challenges by, third parties, and potentially significant civil fines, criminal penalties and other sanctions, which could have an adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our regulated utility operations may not be able to recover costs in a timely manner or at all or obtain a return on certain assets or invested capital through base rates, cost recovery clauses, other regulatory mechanisms or otherwise.. Our regulated utilities in New York, Maine, Connecticut and Massachusetts are subject to periodic review of their rates by the NYPSC, MPUC, PURA and DPU, respectively, and the retail rates charged to our regulated utilities' customers through base rates and cost recovery clauses are subject to the jurisdiction of the NYPSC, MPUC, PURA and DPU, as applicable. New rates may be proposed by Network's businesses, which are then subject to review, modification and final authorization and implementation by regulators. Alternatively, regulators may review the rates of Networks' regulated utilities on their own motion. Networks' regulated utilities' rate plans cover specified periods, but rates determined pursuant to a plan generally continue in effect until a new rate plan is approved by the state utility regulator. Networks' regulated utilities' business rate plans approved by state utility regulators limit the. 29. rates Networks' regulated utilities can charge their customers. The rates are generally designed for, but do not guarantee, the recovery of Networks' regulated utilities' respective cost of service and the opportunity to earn a reasonable rate of return (ROE). Actual costs may increase due to inflation or other factors and exceed levels provided for such costs in the rate plans for Networks' regulated utilities. Utility regulators can initiate proceedings to prohibit Networks' regulated utilities from recovering from their customers the cost of service (including energy costs) that the regulators determine to have been imprudently incurred. Networks' regulated utilities defer for future recovery certain costs including major storm costs and environmental costs. In a number of proceedings in recent years, Networks' regulated subsidiaries have been denied recovery, or deferred recovery pending the next general rate case, including denials or deferrals related to major storm costs and construction expenditures. In some instances, denial of recovery may cause the regulated subsidiaries to record an impairment of assets. If Networks' regulated utilities' costs are not fully and timely recovered through the rates ultimately approved by regulators, our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition, and our ability to earn a return on investment and meet financial obligations, could be adversely affected.. Certain of the current electric and gas rate plans of Networks' regulated utilities include revenue decoupling mechanisms, or RDMs, and the provisions for the recovery of energy costs, including reconciliation of the actual amount paid by such regulated utilities. There is no guarantee that such decoupling mechanisms or recovery and reconciliation mechanism will remain part of the rate plan of Networks in future rate proceedings.. In addition, there are pending challenges at the FERC against New England transmission owners (including UI and CMP) seeking to lower the ROE that these transmission owners are allowed by the FERC to receive for wholesale transmission service pursuant to the ISO-NE Open Access Transmission Tariff. Reductions to ROE adversely impact the revenues that Networks' regulated utilities receive from wholesale transmission customers and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Harming of protected species can result in curtailment of wind project operations and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation, financial condition and cash flows.. The operation of energy projects and transmission of energy can adversely affect endangered, threatened or otherwise protected animal species under federal and state statutes, laws, rules and regulations. Wind projects involve a risk that protected flying species, such as birds and bats, will be harmed due to collision. Transmission and distribution lines are another source of potential avian collision as well as electrocution. Energy generation and transmission facilities can result in impacts to protected wildlife, including death caused by collision, electrocution and poisoning. Energy infrastructure occasionally affects endangered or protected species. Our businesses observe industry guidelines and government-recommended best practices to avoid, minimize and mitigate harm to protected species, but complete avoidance is not possible and subsequent penalties may result. Where appropriate, our businesses can apply for an \"incidental take\" permit for some protected species, which may be conditioned upon the institution of costly avoidance and remediation measures.. Violations of wildlife protection laws in certain jurisdictions may result in civil or criminal penalties, including violations of certain laws protecting migratory birds, endangered species and eagles. The ESA and analogous state laws restrict activities without a permit that may adversely affect endangered and threatened species or their habitat. The ESA also provides for private causes of actions against a development project, an operating facility, or the agency that oversees the alleged violation of law. Similar protections are offered to migratory birds under the MBTA, which implements various treaties and conventions between the United States and certain other nations for the protection of migratory birds and, pursuant to which the taking, killing or possessing of migratory birds is unlawful. Complying with the state and federal laws protecting migratory birds, endangered species and eagles may require implementation of operating restrictions or a temporary, seasonal, or permanent ban on operations in affected areas, which can have a material adverse effect on the revenue of those projects. For example, there have been recent sightings of the protected California condor at Renewables' Manzana wind facility. Any incidental taking of a California condor could result in substantial financial, legal and reputational harm to us. The DOJ has investigated Renewables for potential violations under the MBTA and the ESA at its Blue Creek facility due to an Indiana Bat and other bird fatalities. Although the investigation expired in October 2017 with no negative outcome, similar investigations may occur in the future that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation, financial condition and cash flows.. Renewables relies in part on governmental policies that support utility-scale renewable energy. Any reductions to, or the elimination of, governmental mandates and incentives that support utility-scale renewable energy or the imposition of additional taxes or other assessments on renewable energy, could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Renewables relies, in part, upon government policies that support utility-scale renewable energy projects and enhance the economic feasibility of developing and operating wind energy projects in regions in which Renewables operates or plans to develop and operate renewable energy facilities. The federal government and many states and local jurisdictions have policies or other. 30. mechanisms, such as tax incentives or renewable portfolio standards, or RPS, that support the sale of energy from utility-scale renewable energy facilities, such as wind  energy facilities. As a result of budgetary constraints, political factors or otherwise, federal, state and local governments from time to time may review their policies and other mechanisms that support renewable energy and consider actions that would make them less conducive to the development or operation of renewable energy facilities. Any reductions to, or the elimination of, governmental policies or other mechanisms that support renewable energy or the imposition of additional taxes or other assessments on renewable energy, could result in, among other items, the lack of a satisfactory market for the development of new renewable energy projects, Renewables abandoning the development of new renewable energy projects, a loss of Renewables' investments in the projects and reduced project returns, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our businesses may face risks related to obtaining governmental approvals and permits in respect of project siting, financing, construction, operation and the negotiation of project development agreements which could cause delay a project and could materially adversely affect our businesses, results of operations or financial condition.. Renewables owns, develops, constructs and/or operates electricity generation, including renewable and thermal generators, and associated transmission facilities. Networks develops, constructs, manages and operates transmission and distribution facilities to meet customer needs. As part of these operations, our businesses must periodically apply for licenses and permits from various local, state, federal and other regulatory authorities and abide by their respective conditions. In particular, with respect to Renewables, over the past years noise standards and siting criteria in the Northeast, where population density is higher compared to the Northwest, where Renewables also operates, have grown more restrictive. During 2017 federal and state siting legislation has increased its focus on potential conflicts with military installations. If our businesses are unsuccessful in obtaining necessary licenses or permits on acceptable terms, there is a delay in obtaining or renewing necessary licenses or permits or regulatory authorities initiate any associated investigations or enforcement actions or impose related penalties or disallowances on us, they individually or in the aggregate could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our operating subsidiaries' purchases and sales of energy commodities and related transportation and services expose us to potential regulatory risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Under the EPA act 2005 and the Dodd-Frank Act, our businesses are subject to enhanced FERC and CFTC statutory authority to monitor certain segments of the physical and financial energy commodities markets. These agencies have imposed broad regulations prohibiting fraud and manipulation of the electricity and gas markets. Under these laws, the FERC and CFTC have promulgated new regulations that have increased compliance costs and imposed new reporting requirements on our businesses. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act substantially increased regulation of the over-the-counter derivative contracts market and futures contract markets, which impacts our businesses. The new regulations require our operating subsidiaries to comply with certain margin requirements for our over-the-counter derivative contracts with certain CFTC- or SEC-registered entities and if the rules implementing the new regulations require us to post significant amounts of cash collateral with respect to swap transactions, this could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. We cannot predict the impact these new regulations will have on our businesses' ability to hedge their commodity and interest rate risks or on over-the-counter derivatives markets as a whole, but they could potentially have a material adverse effect on our businesses' risk exposure, as well as reduce market liquidity and further increase the cost of hedging activities.. With regard to the physical purchases and sales of energy commodities, the physical trading of energy commodities and any related transportation and/or hedging activities that some of our operating subsidiaries undertake, our operating subsidiaries are required to observe the market-related regulations and certain reporting and other requirements enforced by the FERC, the CFTC and the SEC. Additionally, to the extent that the operating subsidiaries enter into transportation contracts with natural gas pipelines or transmission contracts with electricity transmission providers that are subject to FERC regulation, the operating subsidiaries are subject to FERC requirements related to the use of such transportation or transmission capacity. Any failure on the part of our operating subsidiaries to comply with the regulations and policies of the FERC, the CFTC or the SEC relating to the physical or financial trading and sales of natural gas or other energy commodities, transportation or transmission of these energy commodities or trading or hedging of these commodities could result in the imposition of significant civil and criminal penalties. Failure to comply with such regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Renewables' ability to generate revenue from certain utility-scale wind energy power plants depends on having continuing interconnection arrangements, PPAs, or other market mechanisms and depends upon interconnecting utility and RTO rules, policies, procedures and FERC tariffs that do not present restrictions to current and future wind project operations.. The electric generation facilities owned by Renewables rely on interconnection and/or transmission agreements and transmission networks in order to sell the energy generated by such facility. If the interconnection and/or transmission agreement of an. 31. electric generating facility Renewables owns is terminated for any reason, Renewables may not be able to replace it with an interconnection or transmission arrangement on terms as favorable as the existing arrangement, or at all, or it may experience significant delays or costs in securing a replacement. If a transmission network to which one or more of Renewables' electric generating facilities is connected experiences outages or curtailments, the affected projects may lose revenue. These factors could materially affect Renewables' ability to forecast operations and negatively affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, certain of Renewables' operating facilities' generation of electricity may be physically or economically curtailed, and offtakers or transmission or interconnection providers may be permitted to restrict wind project operations without paying full compensation to Renewables pursuant to PPAs or interconnection agreements or FERC tariff provisions or rules, policies or procedures of RTOs, which may reduce our revenues and impair our ability to capitalize fully on a particular facility's generating potential. Such curtailments or operational limitations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, economic congestion on the transmission grid (for instance, a negative price difference between the location where power is put on the grid by a project and the location where power is taken off the grid by the project's customer) in certain of the bulk power markets in which Renewables operates may occur and its businesses may be responsible for those congestion costs. Similarly, negative congestion costs may require that the wind projects either not participate in the energy markets or bid and clear at negative prices which may require the wind projects to pay money to operate each hour in which prices are negative. If such businesses were liable for such congestion costs or if the wind projects are required to pay money to operate in any given hour when prices are negative, then our financial results could be adversely affected.. Risks Relating to Our Business and Operations. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets may negatively affect our liquidity and capital needs and our ability to meet our growth objectives and can also materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. A crisis affecting the banking system and the financial markets including severe volatility in stock and bond markets could impact our financial operating conditions, our day-to-day activities, our liquidity and cash positions, the loss of significant investment opportunities, the value of our business and our financial condition. In addition, during periods of slow or little economic growth, energy conservation efforts often increase and the amount of uncollectible customer accounts increases. These factors may also reduce earnings and cash flow.. Increases in interest rates or reductions in credit ratings could have an adverse impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.. Trends in the general level of interest rates and in the debt capital and credit markets could increase the cost of our borrowings and our ability to access the credit markets. We have floating rate exposure under our commercial paper program, our credit facilities and our auction rate bonds which closely tracks movements in the London Interbank Offer Rate, or LIBOR. The cost of new long-term debt can be affected by the level of US treasury rates and conditions in the debt capital markets that affect credit spreads.. In addition, AVANGRID and certain of its subsidiaries have credit ratings which directly affect the cost of maintaining and borrowing under revolving credit facilities and which indirectly affect the cost of borrowing under our commercial paper program and the cost of new long-term debt raised in the debt capital markets. In addition, we intend to access the capital markets and issue debt securities from time to time, and a decrease in credit ratings or outlook could adversely affect our liquidity, increase borrowing costs and decrease demand for our debt securities and increase the expense and difficulty of financing our operations and investments. The Tax Act may negatively affect cash flows and financial ratios used by rating agencies, increasing the risk of adverse rating actions. Lower credit ratings could increase the cost of debt and equity capital and, depending on the rating and market conditions, preclude access to the debt and equity capital markets. Any of these events could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. If Networks' electricity and natural gas transmission, transportation and distribution systems do not operate as expected, they could require unplanned expenditures, including the maintenance and refurbishment of Networks' facilities, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. Networks' ability to operate its electricity and natural gas transmission, transportation and distribution systems is critical to the financial performance of our business. The ongoing operation of Networks' facilities involves risks customary to the electric and natural gas industry that include the breakdown, failure, loss of use or destruction of Networks' facilities, equipment or processes or the facilities, equipment or processes of third parties due to natural disasters, war or acts of terrorism, operational and safety performance below expected levels, errors in the operation or maintenance of these facilities and the inability to transport electricity or natural gas to customers in an efficient manner. These and other occurrences could reduce potential earnings and cash flows and increase the costs of repairs and replacement of assets. Losses incurred by Networks in respect of such occurrences may not be fully recoverable through insurance or customer rates. Further, certain of Networks' facilities require periodic upgrading and improvement.. 32. In addition, unplanned outages typically increase Networks' operation and maintenance expenses. Any unexpected failure, including failure associated with breakdowns, forced outages or any unanticipated capital expenditures, accident, failure of major equipment, shortage of or inability to acquire critical replacement or spare parts could result in reduced profitability, harm to our reputation or regulatory penalties. For more information, see \"Risks Relating to Our Regulatory Environment\" above.. Our businesses' operations and power production may fall below expectations due to the impact of severe weather or other natural events, which could adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial position.. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and other fuels and affect the price of energy and energy-related commodities. Severe weather, such as ice and snow storms, hurricanes and other natural disasters, such as floods and earthquakes, can be destructive and cause power outages, bodily injury and property damage or affect the availability of fuel and water, which may require additional costs or loss of revenues, for example, the costs incurred to restore service and repair damaged facilities, to obtain replacement power and to access available financing sources, may not be recoverable from customers, and could adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial position. Many of our facilities could be placed at greater risk of damage should changes in the global climate produce unusual variations in temperature and weather patterns, resulting in more intense, frequent and extreme weather events, abnormal levels of precipitation and a change in sea level. A disruption or failure of electric generation, transmission or distribution systems or natural gas production, transmission, transportation, storage or distribution systems in the event of ice and snow storms, long periods of severe weather, hurricane, tornado or other severe weather event, or otherwise, could prevent us from operating our business in the normal course and could result in any of the adverse consequences described above. Because utility companies, including our regulated utilities, have large customer bases, they are subject to adverse publicity focused on the reliability of their distribution services and the speed with which they are able to respond to electric outages, natural gas leaks and similar interruptions caused by storm damage or other unanticipated events. Adverse publicity of this nature could harm our reputations and the reputations of our subsidiaries.. Furthermore, Renewables can incur damage to wind turbine equipment, either through natural events such as lightning strikes that damage blades or in-ground electrical systems used to collect electricity from turbines. Many of the operating facilities of Networks and Enstor, Inc., Gas' wholly-owned direct subsidiary, are located either in, or close to, densely populated public places. A failure of, or damage to, these facilities, could result in bodily injury or death, property damage, the release of hazardous substances or extended service interruptions. The cost of repairing damage to Networks' and Gas' facilities and the potential disruption of their operations due to storms, natural disasters or other catastrophic events could be substantial. In respect of our businesses where cost recovery is available, recovery of costs to restore service and repair damaged facilities is or may be subject to regulatory approval, and any determination by the regulator not to permit timely and full recovery of the costs incurred could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. If wind conditions are unfavorable or below Renewables' production forecasts, or Renewables' wind turbines are not available for operation, Renewables projects' electricity generation and the revenue generated from its projects may be substantially below our expectations.. Changing wind patterns or lower than expected wind resource could cause reductions in electricity generation at Renewables' projects, which could affect the revenues produced by these wind generating facilities. Renewables' wind projects are sited, developed and operated to maximize wind performance. Prior to siting a wind facility, detailed studies are conducted to measure the wind resource in order to estimate future production. However, wind patterns or wind resource in the future might deviate from historical patterns and are difficult to predict. These events could negatively impact the results of operations of Renewables, which may vary significantly from period to period, depending on the level of available resources. To the extent that resources are not available at planned levels, the financial results from these facilities may be less than expected. Changing wind patterns or lower than expected wind resources could also degrade equipment or components and the interconnection and transmission facilities' lives or maintenance costs. Replacement and spare parts for wind turbines and key pieces of electrical equipment may be difficult or costly to acquire or may be unavailable. The loss of any suppliers or service providers or inability to find replacement suppliers or service providers or to purchase turbines at rates currently offered by Renewables' existing suppliers or a change in the terms of Renewables' supply or operations and maintenance agreements, such as increased prices for maintenance services or for spare parts, could have a material adverse effect on Renewables' ability to construct and maintain wind farms or the profitability of wind farm development and operation.. The revenues generated by Renewables' facilities depend upon Renewables' ability to maintain the working order of its wind turbines. A natural disaster, severe weather, accident, failure of major equipment, shortage of or inability to acquire critical replacement or spare parts, failure in the operation of any future transmission facilities that Renewables may acquire, including the failure of interconnection to available electricity transmission or distribution networks, could damage or require Renewables to shut down its turbines or related equipment and facilities, leading to decreases in electricity generation levels and revenues. Additionally, Renewables' operating projects generally do not hold spare substation main transformers in inventory. These transformers are. 33. designed specifically for each wind power project, and order lead times can be lengthy. If one of Renewables' projects had to replace any of its substation main transformers, it would be unable to sell all of its power until a replacement is installed.. If Renewables experiences a prolonged interruption at one of its operating projects due to natural events or operational problems and such events are not fully covered by insurance, Renewables' electricity generation levels could materially decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operation and financial condition and could adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial position.. Cyber breaches, acts of war or terrorism, grid disturbances or security breaches involving the misappropriation of confidential and proprietary customer, employee, financial or system operating information could negatively impact our business.. Cyber breaches, acts of war or terrorism or grid disturbances resulting from internal or external sources could target our generation, transmission and distribution facilities or our information technology systems. In the regular course of business, we maintain sensitive customer, employee, financial and system operating information and are required by various federal and state laws to safeguard this information. Cyber or physical security intrusions could potentially lead to disabling damage to our generation, transmission and distribution facilities and to theft and the release of critical operating information or confidential customer or employee information, which could adversely affect our operations or adversely impact our reputation, and could result in significant costs, fines and litigation. Additionally, because our generation and transmission facilities are part of an interconnected regional grid, we face the risk of blackout due to a disruption on a neighboring interconnected system. The Company maintains a specific insurance program for cyber-risk in accordance with insurance market current offerings; and that will need to be periodically reviewed due to the rapid evolution and broad range of cyber risks. While we maintain insurance coverage that is designed to address losses or claims that may arise in connection with cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or claims that may arise from such risks. As threats evolve and grow increasingly more sophisticated, we may incur significant costs to upgrade or enhance our security measures to protect against such risks and we may face difficulties in fully anticipating or implementing adequate preventive measures or mitigating potential harms. In addition, we cannot ensure that a potential security breach may not occur or quantify the potential impact of such an event. Any such cyber breaches could result in a significant decrease in revenues, significant expense to repair system damage or security breaches, adversely impact our reputation, regulatory penalties and liability claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.. Risks including but not limited to any physical security breach involving unauthorized access, electricity or equipment theft and vandalism could adversely affect our business operations and adversely impact our reputation.. A physical attack on our transmission and distribution infrastructure could interfere with normal business operations and affect our ability to control our transmission and distribution assets. A physical security intrusion could potentially lead to theft and the release of critical operating information, which could adversely affect our operations or adversely impact our reputation, and could result in significant costs, fines and litigation. Additionally, certain of our power generation and transmission and distribution assets and equipment are at risk for theft and damage. For example, Networks is at risk for copper wire theft, especially, due to an increased demand for copper in the United States and internationally. Theft of copper wire or solar panels can cause significant disruption to Networks' and Renewables' operations, respectively, and can lead to operating losses at those locations. Furthermore, Renewables can incur damage to wind turbine equipment through vandalism, such as gunshots into towers or other generating equipment. Such damage can cause disruption of operations for unspecified periods which may lead to operating losses at those locations.. Our risk management policies cannot fully eliminate the risk associated with some of our operating subsidiaries' commodity trading and hedging activities, which may result in significant losses.. Renewables has exposure to commodity price movements through their \"natural\" long positions in electricity and natural gas storage in addition to proprietary trading and hedging activities. Since market prices and temporal price spreads for natural gas reflect the demand for these products and their availability at a given time, the overall operating results of Gas' business may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis.. Networks and Renewables manage the exposure to risks of commodity price movements through internal risk management policies, enforcement of established risk limits and risk management procedures. These risk policies, risk limits and risk management procedures may not work as planned and cannot eliminate all risks associated with these activities. Even when these risk policies and procedures are followed, and decisions are made based on projections and estimates of future performance, results of operations may be diminished if the judgments and assumptions underlying those decisions prove to be incorrect. Our risk management tools and metrics associated with our hedging and trading procedures, such as daily value at risk, stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines, are based on historical price movements. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in price movements and potential deviation from historical pricing behavior, we are unable to assure that our risk management tools and metrics will be effective to protect against. 34. material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Factors, such as future prices and demand for power and other energy-related commodities, become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future estimates are made. As a result, we cannot fully predict the impact that some of our subsidiaries' commodity trading and hedging activities and risk management decisions may have on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. We expect to invest in development opportunities in all segments of our business, but such opportunities may not be successful, projects may not commence operation as scheduled and/or within budget or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects.. We are pursuing broader development investment opportunities related to all segments of our business, particularly in respect of additional opportunities related to electric transmission, renewable energy generation, interconnections to generating resources and other development investment opportunities. The development, construction and expansion of such projects involve numerous risks.  Various factors could result in increased costs or result in delays or cancellation of these projects. Risks include regulatory approval processes, permitting, new legislation, economic events, environmental and community concerns, negative publicity, design and siting issues, difficulties in obtaining required rights of way, construction delays and cost overruns, including delays in equipment deliveries, particularly of wind turbines or transformers, severe weather, competition from incumbent facilities and other entities, and actions of strategic partners. For example, there may be delays or unexpected developments in completing current and future construction projects. While most of Renewables' construction projects are constructed under fixed-price and fixed-schedule contracts with construction and equipment suppliers, these contracts provide for limitations on the liability of these contractors to pay liquidated damages for cost overruns and construction delays. These circumstances could prevent Renewables' construction projects from commencing operations or from meeting original expectations about how much electricity it will generate or the returns it will achieve.  In addition, for Renewables' projects that are subject to PPAs, substantial delays could cause defaults under the PPAs, which generally require the completion of project construction by a certain date at specified performance levels. A delay resulting in a wind project failing to qualify for federal production tax credits could result in losses that would be substantially greater than the amount of liquidated damages paid to Renewables.  In December 2015, the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016 extended the expiration date for this tax credit to December 31, 2019, for wind facilities commencing construction, with a phase-down beginning for wind projects commencing construction after December 31, 2016. The Tax Act enacted in December 2017 kept the 2015 tax credits agreement unchanged. Furthermore, as a result of Connecticut's Comprehensive Energy Strategy, CNG and SCG filed, jointly with Yankee Gas Services Company (Eversource) a comprehensive natural gas expansion plan, or Expansion Plan, outlining a structured approach to add approximately 280,000 new gas heating customers (approximately 200,000 of which relate to SCG and CNG) state-wide over a ten-year period through 2023. SCG and CNG have been executing on the Expansion Plan since 2014 and will continue to do so through 2023.  In order to serve new customers to comply with the Expansion Plan, SCG and CNG need to lay significant miles of new pipeline, maintain, expand and potentially upgrade their existing distribution and/or storage infrastructure, and build new gate stations.  Various factors may prevent or delay SCG and CNG from completing such projects or make completion more costly, such as the inability to obtain required approval from local or state regulatory and governmental bodies, public opposition to the project, lack of potential customers as a result of reduced economic benefits for switching to gas, inability to obtain adequate financing, construction delays, cost overruns, and inability to negotiate acceptable agreements relating to rights-of-way, construction or other material development components. As a result, SCG and CNG may not be able to adequately support the proposed customer growth, which would negatively impact their businesses, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Should any of these factors result in such delays or cancellations, our growth projections, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected or our future growth opportunities may not be realized as anticipated.. Advances in technology and rate design initiatives could impair or eliminate the competitive advantage of our business or could result in customer defection, which could have a material adverse effect on our growth, business, financial condition and results of operations.. The emergence of technology and initiatives designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions or limit the effects of global warming and overall climate change has increased the development of new technologies for solar generation, energy efficiency, and for investment in research and development to make those technologies more efficient and cost effective. There is a potential that new technology or rate design incentives could adversely affect the demand for services of our regulated subsidiaries thus impacting our revenues, which could adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial concerns. For example, net energy metering allows electricity customers who supply their own electricity from on-site generation to pay only for the net energy obtained from the utility.  Further, the behind-the-meter storage systems and grid integration components such as inverters or electronics could result in electricity delivery customers abandoning the grid system or replacing part of grid services with self-supply or self-balancing, which could impact the return on current or future Networks' assets deployed and designed to serve projected load. Such emergence of alternative sources of energy supply can result in customers relying on the power grid for limited use, such as in the case of a deficit or an emergency, or completely abandoning the grid, which is known as customer defection. While certain of the regulated utilities of Networks are subject to RDMs, they are either legislatively or regulatory in nature and there is no assurance such mechanisms will. 35. always be available. The progressive reduction in the costs of distributed energy assets, as a result of technological improvements, large scale deployment in certain jurisdictions and constructive support regimes could result in customer defection (individually or integrated in micro-grids) when a net benefit analysis of investing in self-supply and storage of energy compared to energy provided by utility service appears attractive for certain customer classes. Similarly, future investments in Networks could be impacted if adequate rate making does not fully contemplate the characteristics of an integrated reliable grid from a unified perspective, regardless of customer disconnection.  Further, the interoperability, integration and standard connection of these distributed energy devices and systems could place a burden on the system of Networks' operating subsidiaries, without adequately compensating them. Furthermore, the technologies used in the renewable energy sector change and evolve rapidly.  Techniques for the production of electricity from renewable sources are constantly improving and becoming more complex.  In order to maintain Renewables' competitiveness and expand its business, Renewables must adjust effectively to changes in technology.  If Renewables fails to react effectively to current and future technological changes in the sector in a timely manner, Renewables' future business growth, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. Renewables' revenue may be reduced significantly upon expiration or early termination of PPAs if the market price of electricity decreases and Renewables is otherwise unable to negotiate favorable pricing terms.. Renewables' portfolio of PPAs is made up of PPAs that primarily have fixed or otherwise predetermined electricity prices for the life of the PPA. A decrease in the market price of electricity, including lower prices for traditional fossil fuels, could result in a decrease in revenues once a PPA has expired or upon a renewal of a PPA. Any decrease in the price payable to Renewables under new PPAs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial conditions and cash flows. For the majority of Renewables' wind energy generation projects, upon the expiration of a PPA, the project becomes a merchant project subject to market risks, unless Renewables can negotiate a renewal of the PPA. If Renewables is not able to replace an expiring PPA with a contract on equivalent terms and conditions or otherwise obtain prices that permit operation of the related facility on a profitable basis, the affected site may temporarily or permanently cease operations and trigger an asset value impairment. The majority of the Renewables PPAs are fixed price contracts.  An early termination of any may result in economic losses.. There are a limited number of purchasers of utility-scale quantities of electricity, which exposes Renewables' utility-scale projects to additional risk that could have a material adverse effect on its business.. Since the transmission and distribution of electricity is highly concentrated in most jurisdictions, there are a limited number of possible purchasers for utility-scale quantities of electricity in a given geographic location, including transmission grid operators, state and investor-owned power companies, public utility districts and cooperatives. As a result, there is a concentrated pool of potential buyers for electricity generated by Renewables' businesses, which may restrict our ability to negotiate favorable terms under new PPAs and could impact our ability to find new customers for the electricity generated by our generation facilities should this become necessary. Renewables' PPA portfolio is mostly contracted with low risk regulated utility companies.  In the past few years, there has been increased participation from commercial and industrial businesses. The higher long term business risk profile of these companies results in increased credit risk. Furthermore, if the financial condition of these utilities and/or power purchasers deteriorated or the RPS programs, climate change programs or other regulations to which they are currently subject and that compel them to source renewable energy supplies change, demand for electricity produced by Renewables' businesses could be negatively impacted.. Lower prices for other fuel sources may reduce the demand for wind and solar energy development, which could have a material adverse effect on Renewables' ability to grow its business.. Wind and solar energy demand is affected by the price and availability of other fuels, including nuclear, coal, natural gas and oil, as well as other sources of renewable energy. To the extent renewable energy, particularly wind energy, becomes less cost-competitive due to reduced government targets, increases in the cost of wind energy, as a result of new regulations, and incentives that favor alternative renewable energy, cheaper alternatives or otherwise, demand for wind energy and other forms of renewable energy could decrease. Slow growth or a long-term reduction in the demand for renewable energy could have a material adverse effect on Renewables' ability to grow its business.. Volatility in the price of natural gas and home heating oil could adversely impact the demand for gas conversions and could have a material adverse effect on our regulated gas utilities' ability to grow their businesses.. Conversion from home heating oil to natural gas requires a significant investment by customers. If the price of natural gas does not remain sufficiently below the prices of home heating oil, current oil heating customers may elect not to convert to natural gas. Volatility in oil prices demonstrates the difficulty to predict future home heating costs. In addition, any new regulations imposed on natural gas, particularly on extraction of natural gas from shale formations, could lead to substantial increases in the price of natural gas. Reduced prices for heating oil or increases in in prices for natural gas may cause potential natural gas customers to forgo. 36. converting their heating systems to natural gas and as a result, could negatively impact the forecasted growth of the CNG, SCG and BGC businesses, and their cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.. Our subsidiaries do not own all of the land on which their projects are located and their use and enjoyment of real property rights for their projects may be adversely affected by the rights of lienholders and leaseholders that are superior to those of the grantors of those real property rights to our subsidiaries' projects, which could have a material adverse effect on their business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our subsidiaries do not own all of the land on which their projects are located. For example, Renewables does not own all of the land on which its wind projects are located and Gas does not own all of the land on which its natural gas storage projects are located. Such projects generally are, and future projects may be, located on land occupied under long-term easements, leases and rights of way. The ownership interests in the land subject to these easements, leases and rights of way may be subject to mortgages securing loans or other liens and other easements, lease rights and rights of way of third parties that were created previously. As a result, some of the rights under such easements, leases or rights of way held by our operating subsidiaries may be subject to the rights of these third parties, and the rights of our operating subsidiaries to use the land on which their projects are or will be located and their projects' rights to such easements, leases and rights of way could be lost or curtailed. Any such loss or curtailment of the rights of our operating subsidiaries to use the land on which their projects are or will be located could have a material adverse effect on their business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. We and our subsidiaries are subject to litigation or administrative proceedings, the outcome or settlement of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our operating subsidiaries have been and continue to be involved in legal proceedings, administrative proceedings, claims and other litigation that arise in the ordinary course of business. These actions may include environmental claims, employment-related claims and contractual disputes or claims for personal injury or property damage that occur in connection with services performed relating to the operation of our businesses, or actions by regulatory or tax authorities. Unfavorable outcomes or developments relating to these proceedings or future proceedings, such as judgments for monetary damages, injunctions or denial or revocation of permits, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, settlement of claims could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Storing, transporting and distributing natural gas involves inherent risks that could cause us to incur significant financial losses.. There are inherent hazards and operation risks in gas distribution activities, such as leaks, accidental explosions and mechanical problems that could cause the loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution and impairment of operations. The location of pipelines and storage facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. These activities may subject us to litigation and administrative proceedings that could result in substantial monetary judgments, fines or penalties. To the extent that the occurrence of any of these events is not fully covered by insurance or natural gas hedges, they could adversely affect our revenue, earnings and cash flow.. We are not able to insure against all potential risks and may become subject to higher insurance premiums, and our ability to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be materially adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, as well as the financial condition of insurers.. Our businesses and activities are exposed to the risks inherent in the construction and operation of our respective assets, such as electrical power plants, wind power plants and other renewable energy projects and natural gas storage facilities, including breakdowns, manufacturing defects, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, cyber attacks and sabotage. Our subsidiaries are also exposed to third party liability risks and environmental risks. While our operating subsidiaries maintain insurance coverage, such insurance may not continue to be offered on an economically feasible basis and may not cover all events that could give rise to a loss or claim involving the assets or operations of our subsidiaries. For example, Renewables currently has 540 megawatts, or MW, of installed capacity in California subject to known earthquake risks and approximately 600 MW of installed capacity on the Texas Gulf Coast subject to known hurricane and windstorm risks. Further, while insurance coverage applies to property damages and business interruptions, this coverage is limited as a result of severe insurance market restrictions and we are generally not fully insured against all significant losses. In addition, our subsidiaries' insurance policies are subject to annual review by their insurers. Our ability to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be materially adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. If insurance coverage is not available or obtainable on acceptable terms, we may be required to pay costs associated with adverse future events. If one of our operating. 37. subsidiaries were to incur a serious uninsured loss or a loss significantly exceeding the limits of their insurance policies, the results could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Furthermore, Networks' gas distribution and transportation activities involve a variety of inherent hazards and operating risks, such as leaks, accidents, explosions, and mechanical problems and could result in serious injury to employees and non-employees, loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution and impairment of our subsidiaries' operations. In accordance with customary industry practice, our subsidiaries maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. The location of natural gas pipelines and natural gas storage facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages that could potentially result from these risks. The occurrence of any of these events not fully covered by insurance could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. The benefits of any warranties provided by the suppliers of equipment for Networks and Renewables' projects may be limited by the ability of a supplier to satisfy its warranty obligations, or if the term of the warranty has expired or has liability limits which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation, financial condition and cash flows.. Networks and Renewables expect to benefit from various warranties, including product quality and performance warranties, provided by suppliers in connection with the purchase of equipment. The suppliers of our operating subsidiaries may fail to fulfill their warranty obligations or a particular defect may not be covered by a warranty. Even if a supplier fulfills its obligations, the warranty may not be sufficient to compensate the operating subsidiary for all of its losses. In addition, these warranties generally expire within two to five years after the date each equipment item is delivered or commissioned and are subject to liability limits. If installation is delayed, the operating subsidiaries may lose all or a portion of the benefit of a warranty. If Networks or Renewables seeks warranty protection and a supplier is unable or unwilling to perform its warranty obligations, whether as a result of its financial condition or otherwise, or if the term of the warranty has expired or a liability limit has been reached, there may be a reduction or loss of warranty protection for the affected equipment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation, financial condition and cash flows.. A disruption in the wholesale energy markets or failure by an energy supplier could adversely affect our business and results of operation.. Almost all the electricity and gas that Networks sells to full-service customers is purchased through the wholesale energy markets or pursuant to contracts with energy suppliers. A disruption in the wholesale energy markets or a failure on the part of energy suppliers or operators of energy delivery systems that connect to Networks' energy facilities could adversely affect Networks' ability to meet its customers' energy needs and adversely affect our business and results of operation.. The increased cost of purchasing natural gas during periods in which natural gas prices are rising significantly could adversely impact our earnings and cash flow.. The rates that are permitted to be charged by our regulated natural gas utilities that allow for rate recovery generally allow such businesses to recover their cost of purchasing natural gas. In general, the various regulatory agencies allow our regulated utilities to recover the costs of natural gas purchased for customers on a dollar-for-dollar basis (in the absence of disallowances), without a profit component. Networks' regulated natural gas utilities periodically adjust customer rates for increases and decreases in the cost of gas purchased by such regulated utilities for sale to its customers. Under the regulatory body-approved gas cost recovery pricing mechanisms, the gas commodity charge portion of gas rates charged to customers may be adjusted upward on a periodic basis. If the cost of purchasing natural gas increases and Networks' regulated natural gas utilities is unable to recover these costs from its customers immediately, or at all, Networks may incur increased costs associated with higher working capital requirements and/or realize increased costs. In addition, any increases in the cost of purchasing natural gas may result in higher customer bad debt expense for uncollectible accounts and reduced sales volume and related margins due to lower customer consumption.. Pension and post-retirement benefit plans could require significant future contributions to such plan that could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. We provide defined benefit pension plans and other post-retirement benefits administered by our subsidiaries for a significant number of employees, former employees and retirees. Financial market disruptions and significant declines in the market values of the investments held to meet the pension and post-retirement obligations, discount rate assumptions, participant demographics and increasing longevity, and changes in laws and regulations may require us to make significant contributions to the plans. Large funding requirements or significant increases in expenses could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. 38. Long-term low natural gas prices and/or seasonal or locational variation in natural gas price spreads could have a negative impact on the natural gas business and gas storage services.. The natural gas business benefits from price volatility and temporal price spreads.  Variation in price spreads can impact the level of demand and the rates that can be charged for natural gas storage services. If natural gas prices and volatility remain low, or prices decline further, then the natural gas business could generate less revenue and lower demand for natural gas storage services. A sustained decline in these prices and volatility could have an adverse impact on gas business, results of operation, financial condition and cash flows.. Our existing credit facilities contain, and agreements that we may enter into in the future may contain, covenants that could restrict our financial flexibility.. Our existing credit facilities, and the credit facilities of our subsidiaries, contain covenants imposing certain requirements on our business including covenants regarding the ratio of indebtedness to total capitalization.  Furthermore, our subsidiaries periodically issue long-term debt, historically consisting of both secured and unsecured indebtedness.  These third-party debt agreements also contain covenants, including covenants regarding the ratio of indebtedness to total capitalization.  These requirements may limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise and may adversely affect our conduct and our operating subsidiaries' current business, including restricting our ability to finance future operations and capital needs and limiting the subsidiaries' ability to engage in other business activities.  Other covenants place or could place restrictions on our ability and the ability of our operating subsidiaries to, among other things, incur additional debt, create liens, and sell or transfer assets.. Agreements we and our operating subsidiaries enter into in the future may also have similar or more restrictive covenants, especially if the general credit market deteriorates. A breach of any covenant in the existing credit facilities or the agreements governing our other indebtedness would result in an event of default. Certain events of default may trigger automatic acceleration of payment of the underlying obligations or may trigger acceleration of payment if not remedied within a specified period. Events of default under one agreement may trigger events of default under other agreements, although our regulated utilities are not subject to the risk of default of affiliates. Should payments become accelerated as the result of an event of default, the principal and interest on such borrowing would become due and payable immediately. If that should occur, we may not be able to make all of the required payments or borrow sufficient funds to refinance the accelerated debt obligations. Even if new financing is then available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us.. We may be unable to meet our financial obligations and to pay dividends on our common stock if our subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends or repay loans from us.. We are a holding company and, as such, have no revenue-generating operations of our own. We are dependent on dividends and the repayment of loans from our subsidiaries and on external financings to provide the cash that is necessary to make future investments, service debt we have incurred, pay administrative costs and pay dividends. Our subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have no independent obligation to pay us dividends. Prior to paying us dividends, the subsidiaries have financial obligations that must be satisfied, including among others, their operating expenses and obligations to creditors. Furthermore, our regulated utilities are restricted by regulatory decision from paying us dividends unless a minimum equity-to-total capital ratio is maintained. The future enactment of laws or regulations may prohibit or further restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds. In addition, in the event of a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization, our right to participate in a distribution of assets is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. As a result, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and meet our financial obligations is reliant on the ability of our subsidiaries to generate sustained earnings and cash flows and pay dividends to and repay loans from us.. Our investments and cash balances are subject to the risk of loss.. Our cash balances and the cash balances at our subsidiaries may be deposited in banks, may be invested in liquid securities such as commercial paper or money market funds or may be deposited in a liquidity agreement in which we are a participant along with other affiliates of the Iberdrola Group. Bank deposits in excess of federal deposit insurance limits would be subject to risks in the counterparty bank. Liquid securities and money market funds are subject to loss of principal, more likely in an adverse market situation, and to the risk of illiquidity.. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which, if not remediated, could adversely affect our reputation, business or stock price.. In connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017, management along with our independent registered public accounting firm identified a material weakness in the internal control over financial. 39. reporting related to the measurement and disclosure of income taxes primarily due to time compression surrounding our income tax controls compounded by the implementation of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 enacted by the U.S. federal government on December 22, 2017. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.. In connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2016, management along with our independent registered public accounting firm identified material weaknesses in the internal control over financial reporting. Management identified deficiencies related to: (1) the accounting for the change in the estimated useful life of certain elements of the wind farms at Renewables and other smaller deficiencies related to documentation of internal controls procedures, and enhancement of review controls at Renewables, (2) the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, specifically the classification and disclosure of financial information, and (3) the measurement and disclosure of income taxes.. We engaged in remediation efforts to address the material weaknesses in the internal control over financial reporting, including, among other things, (i) improving general internal control activities and policies, including processes to maintain sufficient documentation evidencing execution of these policies; (ii) increasing accounting personnel to devote additional time and resources related to financial reporting; (iii) educating and re-training internal control employees regarding internal control processes to mitigate identified risks and maintaining adequate documentation to evidence the effective design and operation of such processes; and (iv) implementing enhanced controls to monitor the effectiveness of the underlying business process controls. We believe that the material weaknesses have been remediated as of December 31, 2017 related to (1) the accounting for the change in the estimated useful life of certain elements of the wind farms at Renewables and other smaller deficiencies related to documentation of internal controls procedures, and enhancement of review controls at Renewables and (2) the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, specifically the classification and disclosure of financial information.. We are actively engaged in remediation efforts to address the material weakness in the internal control over financial reporting related to the measurement and disclosure of income taxes, including, among other things, (i) further acceleration of key activities to allow sufficient time for the execution of consolidated deferred income tax controls that were newly designed in fiscal year 2017; (ii) increasing capabilities of income tax accounting resources to devote additional time and internal control resources to consolidated income tax accounting and reporting processes and controls; and (iii) enhancing the automation of income tax processes and controls to allow for the more timely completion and enhanced review. We believe, based on our evaluation to date, that this material weakness will be remediated by December 31, 2018. However, we cannot assure you that this will occur within the contemplated timeframe.. If our remediation efforts are insufficient to address the identified material weakness or if additional material weaknesses in internal controls are discovered in the future, they may adversely affect our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information timely and accurately and, as a result, our financial statements may contain material misstatements or omissions. The occurrence of or failure to remediate the material weakness may adversely affect our reputation and business and the market price of shares of our common stock.. We and our subsidiaries may suffer the loss of key personnel or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. The operations of our operating subsidiaries depend on the continued efforts of our employees and our subsidiaries' employees. Retaining key employees and maintaining the ability to attract new employees are important to our financial performance and for our subsidiaries' operations and financial performance. We cannot guarantee that any member of our management or of our subsidiaries' management will continue to serve in any capacity for any particular period of time. In addition, a significant portion of our and our subsidiaries' workforce, including many workers with specialized skills maintaining and servicing the electrical infrastructure, will be eligible to retire over the next five to ten years. Such highly skilled individuals cannot be quickly replaced due to the technically complex work they perform. If a significant amount of such workers retire and are not replaced, the subsequent loss in productivity and increased recruiting and training costs could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The announcement of the completion of the strategic review of the Enstor Gas Storage business, including the trading business, and the decision to move forward with a plan to sell such business increases the risk of losing key employees during this period.. We and our subsidiaries face the risk of strikes, work stoppages or an inability to negotiate future collective bargaining agreements on commercially reasonable terms which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. A majority of the employees at Networks' facilities are subject to collective bargaining agreements with various unions. Additionally, unionization activities, including votes for union certification, could occur among non-union employees. If union employees strike, participate in a work stoppage or slowdown or engage in other forms of labor strike or disruption, our subsidiaries could experience reduced power generation or outages if replacement labor is not procured. The ability to procure such replacement. 40. labor is uncertain, though risks are reduced by rigorous contingency planning. Strikes, work stoppages or an inability to negotiate future collective bargaining agreements on commercially reasonable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Changes in tax laws, as well as judgments and estimates used in the determination of tax-related asset and liability amounts, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our provision for income taxes and reporting of tax-related assets and liabilities require significant judgments and the use of estimates. Amounts of tax-related assets and liabilities involve judgments and estimates of the timing and probability of recognition of income, deductions and tax credits, including, but not limited to, estimates for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken and the ability to utilize tax benefit carryforwards, such as net operating loss, or NOL, and tax credit carryforwards. Actual income taxes could vary significantly from estimated amounts due to the future impacts of, among other things, changes in tax laws, regulations and interpretations, our financial condition and results of operations.. The success of our business depends on achieving our strategic objectives, which may be through acquisitions, joint ventures, dispositions and restructurings.. We are continuously reviewing the alternatives available to ensure that we meet our strategic objectives, which include, among other things, acquisitions, joint ventures, dispositions and restructuring.  With respect to potential acquisitions, joint ventures and restructuring actions, we may not achieve expected returns and other benefits as a result of various factors, including integration and collaboration challenges, such as personnel and technology. In addition, we may not achieve anticipated cost savings from restructuring actions. We also may participate in joint ventures with other companies or enterprises in various markets, including joint ventures where we may have a lesser degree of control over the business operations, which may expose us to additional operational, financial, legal or compliance risks. We also continue to evaluate the potential disposition of assets and businesses that may no longer help us meet our objectives. When we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or executing alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives.  Alternatively, we may dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less than we had anticipated. Failure to achieve our strategic objectives could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock. The trading price and volume of our common stock may be volatile and the value of your investment could decline.. The trading price of and demand for shares of our common stock could fluctuate and will depend on a number of conditions, including:.        the risk factors described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K;.      general economic conditions in the U.S. and internationally, including changes in interest rates;.      changes in electricity and natural gas prices;.      actual, anticipated or unanticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results and those of our competitors;.      our businesses, operations, results and prospects ;.      future mergers and strategic alliances;.      market conditions in the energy industry;.      changes in law, government regulation, taxes, legal proceedings or other developments;.      shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecasted by securities analysts or by us;.      investor sentiment toward the stock of energy companies in general;.      announcements concerning us or our competitors;. 41.      maintenance of acceptable credit ratings or credit quality; and.      the general state of the securities markets.. These and other factors may impair the development or sustainability of a liquid market for shares of our common stock and the ability of investors to sell shares at an attractive price. These factors also could cause the market price and demand for shares of our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may negatively affect the price and liquidity of shares of our common stock. These fluctuations could cause you to lose all or part of your investment in shares of our common stock. Many of these factors and conditions are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about us or our businesses, the price and trading volume of our common stock could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will, to some extent, depend on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who cover us should downgrade our shares or change their opinion of our business prospects or report inaccurate information, our share price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our common stock could decrease, which might cause our stock price and trading volume to decline.. Iberdrola exercises significant influence over us, and its interests may be different than yours. Additionally, future sales or issuances of our common stock by Iberdrola, S.A. could have a negative impact on the price of our common stock.. Iberdrola owns approximately 81.5% of outstanding shares of our common stock and will be able to exercise significant influence over our business policies and affairs, including the composition of our board of directors and any action requiring the approval of our shareholders, including the adoption of amendments to the certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the approval of a merger or sale of substantially all of our assets, subject to applicable law and the limitations set forth in the shareholder agreement. The directors designated by Iberdrola will have significant authority to effect decisions affecting our capital structure, including the issuance of additional capital stock, incurrence of additional indebtedness, the implementation of stock repurchase programs and the decision of whether or not to declare dividends.. The interests of Iberdrola may conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. For example, Iberdrola may support certain long-term strategies or objectives for us that may not be accretive to shareholders in the short term. The concentration of ownership may also delay, defer or even prevent a change in control, even if such a change in control would benefit our other shareholders, and may make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of Iberdrola. This significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price for shares of our common stock because investors may perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with shareholders who own significant percentages of a company's outstanding stock.. Further, sales of our common stock by Iberdrola or the perception that sales may be made by it could significantly reduce the market price of shares of our common stock. We and Iberdrola are parties to a shareholder agreement pursuant to which Iberdrola will be generally restricted from transferring shares of our common stock, subject to certain exceptions. Iberdrola will also be restricted, for a period of three years after the completion of the proposed merger, from transferring more than an aggregate of 10% of the outstanding shares of our common stock in any transaction or series of transactions, unless all of our shareholders are entitled to participate in such transaction (on a pro rata basis) and are entitled to the same per share consideration to be received in such transaction as Iberdrola. In addition, even if Iberdrola does not sell a large number of shares of our common stock into the market, its right to transfer such shares may depress the price of our common stock. Furthermore, pursuant to the shareholder agreement and subject to the terms and conditions therein, Iberdrola will be entitled to customary registration rights of our common stock, including the right to choose the method by which the common stock are distributed, a choice as to the underwriter and fees and expenses to be borne by us. Iberdrola will also retain preemptive rights to protect against dilution in connection with issuances of equity by us. If Iberdrola exercises its registration rights and/or its preemptive rights, the market price of shares of our common stock may be adversely affected.. We have elected to take advantage of the \"controlled company\" exemption to the corporate governance rules for NYSE-listed companies, which could make shares of our common stock less attractive to some investors or otherwise harm our stock price.. Under the rules of the NYSE, a company in which over 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, a group or another company is a \"controlled company\" and is not required to have:.      a majority of its board of directors be independent directors;. 42.      a compensation committee, or to have such committees be composed entirely of independent directors; and.      a nominating and corporate governance committee, or to have such committee composed entirely of independent directors.. In October 2016, our board determined that it was in the best interests of the company to establish a compensation, nominating and corporate governance committee. In light of our status as a controlled company, we currently rely on the NYSE exemptions with respect to board, compensation committee and nominating and corporate governance committee independence.. Because we are a controlled company, you will not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE without regard to the exemptions available for \"controlled companies.\" Our status as a controlled company could make our shares of common stock less attractive to some investors or otherwise harm our stock price.. Our dividend policy is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and may be limited by our debt agreements and limitations under New York law.. Although we currently anticipate paying a regular quarterly dividend, any such determination to pay dividends is at the discretion of our board of directors and dependent on conditions such as our financial condition, earnings, legal requirements, including limitations under New York law, restrictions in our debt agreements that limit our ability to pay dividends to shareholders and other factors the board of directors deem relevant. Our board of directors may, in its sole discretion, change the amount or frequency of dividends or discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. For these reasons, investors may not be able to rely on dividends to receive a return on their investments.. If we are unable to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the trading price of our common stock may be negatively affected.. As a public company, we are subject to reporting, disclosure control and other obligations under the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or SOX, the Dodd-Frank Act, as well as rules adopted, and to be adopted, by the SEC and the NYSE. For example, beginning with the 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Section 404 of SOX requires our management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls. Our management and other personnel will continue to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance activities. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or if we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our ability to accurately report our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition could be inhibited and additional financial and management resources could be required. Any failure to maintain internal control over financial reporting or if our independent registered public accounting firm determines the we have a material weakness or significant deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting, could cause investors to lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, a decline in the market price of our common stock, or subject us to sanctions or investigations by the NYSE, the SEC or other regulatory authorities. Failure to remedy any material weakness or significant deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting, or to implement or maintain other effective control systems required of public companies, could also restrict our future access to the capital markets and reduce or eliminate the trading market for our common stock. Further, as a result of becoming a public company, we have incurred and will continue to incur higher legal, accounting and other expenses than we did as a private company, and these expenses may increase even more in the future."
