[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, before making an investment decision regarding our common stock.  If any of the following risks were to actually occur, our business, financial condition or operating results would likely suffer, possibly materially, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment.  Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that adversely affect our business.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. The rapid evolution of the media industry is changing our customers' needs, businesses and revenue models, and if we cannot anticipate or adapt quickly, our business will be harmed.. The media industry has rapidly and dramatically transformed over the past decade, and it is continuing to do so as a result of free content, minimal entry costs for creation and distribution, and expanded use of mobile devices.  As a result, our traditional customers' needs, businesses and revenue models are changing, often in ways that deviate from our traditional core strengths and bases.  If we cannot anticipate these changes or adapt to them quickly, our business will be harmed.  For example, our customers have to address the increasing digitization of the media industry, which requires the creation of a more seamless value chain between content creation and monetization.  Because of the consumerization of the media industry, there is more pressure to create media that can be repurposed in a variety of ways in an efficient manner.  As a result of these industry changes, traditional advertising channels are also facing competition from web and mobile platforms, and diminished revenues from traditional advertising could cause some customers' budgets for the purchase of our solutions to decline; this may be particularly true among local television stations, which in the past have been an important customer industry for us.  Additionally, our customers may seek to pool or share facilities and resources with others in their industry and engage with providers of software as a service.. The ongoing rapid evolution of the media industry may reduce demand for some of our existing products and services.  New or non-traditional competitors may arise or adapt in response to this evolution of the media industry, which could create downward price pressure on our products and solutions and reduce our market share and revenue opportunities.. If we are unable to successfully execute on our strategy, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected.. The ongoing implementation of our strategy involves a number of risks and uncertainties. For example, we may need additional capital for research and development and other initiatives that we may not have access to on reasonable terms or at all.  Additionally, our strategy requires us to develop expertise in new areas and establish new competencies either through talent acquisition or internal development, which we may not be able to successfully achieve.  There is a risk that not all of our strategic plans will deliver the expected benefits within the anticipated time frames, or at all. Furthermore, as a part of our strategy, we are identifying and executing on opportunities to reduce operating costs. If we are unable to successfully execute on our strategy, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our increased emphasis on a cloud strategy may give rise to risks that could harm our business.. We are devoting significant resources to the development of cloud-based technologies and service offerings where we have a limited operating history. Our cloud strategy requires continued investment in product development and cloud operations, as well as a change in the way we price and deliver our products. Many of our competitors may have advantages over us due to their larger presence, larger developer network, deeper experience in the cloud-based computing market, and greater sales and marketing resources. It is uncertain whether our cloud-based strategies will prove successful, or whether we will be able to develop the infrastructure and business models more quickly than our competitors. Our cloud strategy may give rise to a number of risks, including the following:. • If new or current customers desire only perpetual licenses, we may not be successful in selling subscriptions.. • Although we intend to support our perpetual license business, the increased emphasis on a cloud strategy may raise concerns among our installed customer base.. • We may be unsuccessful in achieving our target pricing.. 11. • Our revenues might decline over the short or long term as a result of this strategy.. • Our relationships with existing partners that resell perpetual licenses may be damaged.. • We may incur costs at a higher than forecasted rate as we enhance and expand our cloud operations.. We operate in highly competitive markets, and our competitors may be able to draw upon a greater depth and breadth of resources than those available to us.. We operate in highly competitive markets characterized by pressure to innovate, expand feature sets and functionality, accelerate new product releases and reduce prices.  Markets for certain of our products also have limited barriers to entry.  Many of the markets in which we operate are fragmented, which creates an additional risk of consolidation among our competitors, resulting in fewer, more effective competitors.  Customers consider many factors when evaluating our products relative to those of our competitors, including innovation, ease of use, price, feature sets, functionality, reliability, performance, reputation, and training and support, and we may not compare favorably against our competitors in all respects.   Some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and support resources than we do.  As a result, our competitors may be able to deliver greater innovation, respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in market demand, devote more resources to the development, marketing and sale of their products, successfully expand into emerging and other international markets, or price their products more aggressively than we can.. If our competitors are more successful than we are in developing products, or in attracting and retaining customers, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected.. Our success depends in significant part on our ability to provide innovative products and solutions in response to dynamic and rapidly evolving market demand.. To succeed in our market, we must deliver innovative products and solutions.  Innovation requires both that we accurately predict future market trends and customer expectations, and that we quickly adapt our development efforts in response.  We also have the challenge of protecting our product roadmap and new product initiatives from leaks to competitors that might reduce or eliminate any innovative edge that we seek to gain.  Predicting market trends is difficult, as our market is dynamic and rapidly evolving.  Additionally, given the complex, sophisticated nature of our solutions and our typically lengthy product development cycles, we may not be able to rapidly change our product direction or strategic course.  If we are unable to accurately predict market trends or adapt to evolving market conditions, our ability to capture customer demand will suffer and our market reputation and financial performance will be negatively affected.  Even to the extent we make accurate predictions and possess the requisite flexibility to adapt, we may be able to pursue only some of the possible innovations, due to limited resources.  Our success, therefore, further depends on our ability to identify and focus on the most promising innovations.. Our success depends on our ability to manage a number of risks associated with new products that we introduce, including timely and successful product launch, market acceptance, and the availability of products in appropriate locations, quantities and costs to meet demand.  There can be no assurance that our efforts will be successful in the near future, or at all, or that our competitors will not take significant market share in similar efforts.  If we fail to develop new products and to manage new product introductions and transitions properly, our financial condition and operating results could be harmed.. We may not be able to achieve the efficiencies, savings and other benefits anticipated from our cost reduction, margin improvement and other business optimization initiatives.. We are continually reviewing and implementing programs throughout the company to reduce costs, increase efficiencies and enhance our business.  We have in the past undertaken, and expect to continue to undertake, various restructuring activities and cost reduction initiatives in an effort to better align our organizational structure and costs with our strategy. For example, in February 2016 we committed to a restructuring plan that encompassed a series of actions intended to more efficiently operate in a leaner, and more directed cost structure.  The actions included reductions in our workforce, facility consolidation, transferring resources to lower cost regions and reducing other third-party services costs.. In connection with these activities, we may experience a disruption in our ability to perform functions important to our strategy.  Unexpected delays, increased costs, challenges with adapting our internal control environment to a new organizational structure,. 12. inability to retain and motivate employees, or other challenges arising from these initiatives could adversely affect our ability to realize the anticipated savings or other intended benefits of these activities and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results.. Certain of our enterprise offerings have long and complex sales cycles.. With our transition to leveraging the Avid MediaCentral platform in our sales process, we have experienced an elongation of the sales cycle for some of our enterprise offerings. The longevity and complexity in these sales cycles is due to a number of factors, including:. • the need for our sales representatives to educate customers about the uses and benefits of our products and services, including technical capabilities, security features, potential cost savings and return on investment, which are made available in large-scale deployments;. • the desire of large and medium size organizations to undertake significant evaluation processes to determine their technology requirements prior to making information technology expenditures;. • the negotiation of large, complex, enterprise-wide contracts, as often required by our and our customers' business and legal representatives;. • the need for our customers to obtain requisition approvals from various decision makers within their organizations; and. • customer budget constraints, economic conditions and unplanned administrative delays.. We spend substantial time and money on our sales efforts without any assurance that potential customers will ultimately purchase our solutions.  As we target our sales efforts at larger enterprise customers, these trends are expected to continue. Additionally, our enterprise sales pattern has historically been uneven, with a higher percentage of a quarter's total sales occurring during the final weeks of each quarter, as is common in our industry.  Our long sales cycle for these products makes it difficult to predict when a given sales cycle will close.. Subscription offerings create risks related to the timing of revenue recognition.. We sell an increasing portion of our products based on a subscription model.  Although the subscription model is designed to increase the number of customers who purchase our products and services on a recurring basis, and create a more predictable revenue stream, it creates certain risks and uncertainties related to the timing of revenue recognition and potential reductions in cash flows. A portion of the subscription-based revenue we report each quarter results from the recognition of deferred revenue relating to subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters. A decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any period may not be immediately reflected in our reported financial results for that period but may result in a decline in our revenue in future quarters. If we were to experience significant downturns in subscription sales and renewal rates, our reported financial results might not reflect such downturns until future periods. Our subscription model could also make it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenues from subscription-based services through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers will be recognized over the applicable subscription term. Further, any increases in sales under our subscription sales model could result in decreased revenues over the short term if they are offset by a decline in sales from perpetual license customers. If any of our assumptions about revenue from our new businesses or our addition of a subscription-based model prove incorrect, our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected.  We may be unable to predict subscription renewal rates and the impact these rates may have on our future revenue and operating results.. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions for our services or if they renew on terms that are less favorable to us, our revenues may decline. We sell Pro Tools, Media Composer and Sibelius on a subscription basis pursuant to service agreements that are generally month-to-month or one year in length, and we intend to expand our subscription offerings to other products. Although many of our service and subscription agreements contain automatic renewal terms, our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions for our services after the expiration of their initial subscription period, and some customers elect not to renew. These subscriptions may not be renewed at the same or a higher level of service, for the same number of seats/licenses or for the same duration of time, or at all. Moreover, under certain circumstances, some of our customers have the right to cancel their service agreements prior to the expiration of the terms of their agreements. We may not be able to accurately predict future customer. 13. renewal rates. Our customers' renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our services, the reliability of our subscription services, the prices of our services, the perceived information security of our systems and services, the prices of services offered by our competitors, mergers and acquisitions affecting our customer base, reductions in our customers' spending levels, or declines in customer activity as a result of economic downturns or uncertainty in financial markets. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions for our services or if they renew on terms less favorable to us, our revenues may decline.  Our future growth is also affected by our ability to sell additional features and services to our current customers, which depends on a number of factors, including customers' satisfaction with our products and services, the prices of our offerings and general economic conditions. If our efforts to cross-sell and upsell to our customers are unsuccessful, the rate at which our business grows may decline.. We obtain hardware product components and finished goods under sole-source supply arrangements, and any disruptions to these arrangements could jeopardize the manufacturing or distribution of certain of our hardware products.. Although we generally prefer to establish multi-source supply arrangements for our hardware product components and finished goods, multi-source arrangements are not always possible or cost-effective.  We consequently depend on sole-source suppliers for certain hardware product components and finished goods, including some critical items.  We do not generally carry significant inventories of, and may not in all cases have guaranteed supply arrangements for, these sole-sourced items.  If any of our sole-source suppliers were to cease, suspend or otherwise limit production or shipment (due to, among other things, macroeconomic events, political crises or natural or environmental disasters or other occurrences), terminate our agreements or adversely modify supply terms or pricing, our ability to manufacture, distribute and service our products would be impaired and our business could be significantly harmed.  We may not be able to obtain sole-sourced components or finished goods, or acceptable substitutes, from alternative suppliers or on commercially reasonable terms. If we are forced to change sole source suppliers, due to a contract termination or other production cessation, it may take a significant amount of time and expenses to obtain substitute suppliers, during which time we may experience significant impact on our inventory, which may adversely impact our working capital, liquidity, results of operations or financial position. We may also be required to expend significant development resources to redesign our products to work around the exclusion of any sole-sourced component or accommodate the inclusion of any substitute component.  Although we have procedures in place to mitigate the risks associated with our sole-sourced suppliers, we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain sole-sourced components or finished goods from alternative suppliers or that we will be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms without a material impact on our results of operations or financial position.. Our international operations expose us to legal, regulatory and other risks that we may not face in the United States.. We derive more than half of our revenues from customers outside of the United States, and we rely on foreign contractors for the supply and manufacture of many of our products.  For example, sales to customers outside the United States accounted for 62%, 64% and 63%, of our total net revenues in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We also conduct significant research and development activities overseas, including through third-party development vendors.  For example, a portion of our research and development is outsourced to contractors operating in Kiev, Ukraine, we have customer support activities in the Philippines, and we have operations in Poland and Israel as a result of our 2015 acquisition of Orad.. Our international operations are subject to a variety of risks that we may not face in the United States, including:. • the financial and administrative burdens associated with compliance with myriad environmental, tax and export laws, as well as other business regulations in foreign jurisdictions, including high compliance costs, inconsistencies among jurisdictions, and a lack of administrative or judicial interpretative guidance;. • reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries;. • regional economic downturns;. • economic, social and political instability abroad and international security concerns in general and the risk of war;. • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;. • longer collection cycles for accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in enforcing contracts;. • difficulties in managing and staffing international implementations and operations, and executing our business strategy internationally;. 14. • potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value added or other tax systems and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings;. • increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities;. • difficulties in maintaining effective internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls;. • costs and delays associated with developing products in multiple languages; and. • foreign exchange controls that may prevent or limit our ability to repatriate income earned in foreign markets.. We may not be successful in developing, implementing or maintaining policies and strategies that will be effective in managing the varying risks in each country where we do business.  Our failure to manage these risks successfully, including developing appropriate contingency plans for our outsourced research and development work, could harm our international operations, reduce our international sales and increase our costs, thus adversely affecting our business, operating results and financial condition.. We operate in many different jurisdictions and we could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar foreign anti-corruption laws.. The FCPA and similar foreign anti-corruption laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from offering, promising, authorizing, or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of influencing any act or decision of such official in his or her official capacity, inducing the official to do any act in violation of his or her lawful duty, or to secure any improper advantage in obtaining or retaining business. Recent years have seen a substantial increase in the global enforcement of anti-corruption laws, with more frequent voluntary self-disclosures by companies, aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the DOJ and the SEC resulting in record fines and penalties, increased enforcement activity by non-U.S. regulators, and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals.. We operate in a number of countries that are recognized as having governmental corruption problems to some degree and where local customs and practices may not foster strict compliance with anti-corruption laws, including China.  Our continued operation and expansion outside the United States could increase the risk of such violations in the future. Although we have policies that mandate compliance with these anti-corruption laws and require training, we cannot assure you that these policies and procedures will protect us from unauthorized reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. In the event that we believe or have reason to believe that our employees or agents have or may have violated applicable anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA, we may be required to investigate or have outside counsel investigate the relevant facts and circumstances, which can be expensive and require significant time and attention from senior management. Violations of these laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, which could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations or financial condition.. Failure of our information systems or breaches of data security could impact our business.. Our systems and processes involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including personal information of employees, customers and others.  In addition, we rely on information systems controlled by third parties.  Information system failures, network disruptions and system and data security breaches, manipulation, destruction or leakage, whether intentional or accidental, could harm our ability to conduct our business, impede development, manufacture or shipment of products, interrupt or delay processing of transactions and reporting financial results or result in the unintentional disclosure of proprietary, sensitive or confidential information. With our development of Avid MediaCentral Platform, public and private marketplaces and cloud-based offerings, our and our customer's data and financial and proprietary information could become more susceptible to such failures and data breaches.  Additionally, significant or repeated reductions in the performance, reliability, security or availability of our information systems and network infrastructure could significantly harm our brand and reputation and ability to attract and retain existing and potential users, customers, advertisers and content providers.. Information system failures or unauthorized access could be caused by our failure to adequately maintain and enhance our systems and networks, external theft or attack, misconduct by our employees, contractors, or vendors, or many other causes such as power failures, earthquake, fire or other natural disasters.  Such information system failures or unauthorized access could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, resulting in litigation and potential liability for us.  In addition, we could incur substantial remediation costs, including costs associated with repairing our. 15. information systems, implementing further data protection measures, engaging third-party experts and consultants, and increased insurance premiums.. Additionally, our cloud-based offerings depend on the availability and proper functioning of certain third-party services, including but not limited to cloud provider, database management, backup, monitoring and logging services.  The failure or improper functioning of these third party services could lead to outages, security breaches and data losses, including loss of customer creative assets.  If third-party services become unavailable, we may need to expend considerable resources identifying and integrating alternate providers.. We rely to a significant extent on manufacturing and hardware development vendors with operations in China and Thailand.  This may reduce our control over the manufacturing activities, create uncertainty with respect to intended cost savings and expose our proprietary assets to greater risk of misappropriation.  Changes to these vendor relationships may result in delays or disruptions that could harm our business.. We rely to a significant extent on vendors for the development and manufacture of certain of our hardware products, primarily in China and Thailand.  These relationships provide us with more flexible resource capabilities, access to global talent and cost savings, but also expose us to risks that may not exist or may be less pronounced with respect to our internal operations.  We are able to exercise only limited oversight of our contractors, including with respect to their engineering and manufacturing processes, resource allocations, delivery schedules, security procedures and quality control.  Language, cultural and time zone differences complicate effective management of contractors that are located abroad.  Additionally, competition for talent in certain locations may lead to high turnover rates that disrupt development or manufacturing continuity.  The manufacturers we use also manufacture products for other companies, including our competitors.  Our contractors could choose to prioritize capacity for other users, increase the prices they charge us or reduce or eliminate deliveries to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.  Pricing terms offered by contractors may be highly variable over time reflecting, among other things, order volume, local inflation and exchange rates.  For example, during the past few years, including in 2017, most of our outsourced manufacturers have been in China, where the cost of manufacturing has been increasing and labor unrest and turn-over rates at manufacturers have been on the rise.  Some of our contractor relationships are based on contract, while others operate on a purchase order basis, where we do not have the benefit of written protections with respect to pricing or other critical terms.. Many of our contractors require access to our intellectual property and our confidential and proprietary information to perform their services. Protection of these assets in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions may be less robust than in the United States.  We must rely on policies and procedures we have instituted with our contractors and certain confidentiality and contractual provisions in our written agreements, to the extent they exist, for protection.  These safeguards may be inadequate to prevent breaches. If a breach were to occur, available legal or other remedies may be limited or otherwise insufficient to compensate us for any resulting damages.. Furthermore, if one of our international vendors were, for any reason, to cease or experience significant disruptions in its operations, among others as a result of political unrest, we might be unable to replace it on a timely basis with a comparably priced provider.  We would also have to expend time and resources to train any new development or manufacturing vendor.  If any of the vendors were to suffer an interruption in its business, or experience delays, disruptions or quality control problems in development or manufacturing operations, or if we had to change development or manufacturing vendors, our ability to provide services to our customers would be delayed and our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected.. We depend on the availability and proper functioning of certain third-party technology that we incorporate into or bundle with our products.  Third-party technology may include defects or errors that could adversely affect the performance of our products.  If third-party technology becomes unavailable, we may need to expend considerable resources integrating alternative third-party technology or developing our own substitute technology.. The profit margin for each of our products depends in part on the royalty, license and purchase fees we pay in connection with third-party technology which we license for incorporation into our bundling with our products.  To the extent we add additional third-party technology to our products and we are unable to offset associated costs, our profit margins may decline and our operating results may suffer.  In addition to cost implications, third-party technology may include defects or errors that could adversely affect the performance of our products, which may harm our market reputation or adversely affect our product sales.  Third-party technology may also include certain open source software code that if used in combination with our own software. 16. may jeopardize our intellectual property rights or limit our ability to sell through certain sales channels.  If any third-party technology license expires, is terminated or ceases to be available on commercially reasonable terms, we may be required to expend considerable resources integrating alternative third-party technology or developing our own substitute technology.  In the interim, sales of our products may be delayed or suspended or we may be forced to distribute our products with reduced feature sets or functionality.. Lengthy procurement lead times and unpredictable life cycles and customer demand for some of our products may result in significant inventory risks.. With respect to many of our products, particularly our audio products, we must procure component parts and build finished inventory far in advance of product shipments.  Certain of these products may have unpredictable life cycles and encounter rapid technological obsolescence as a result of dynamic market conditions.  We procure product components and build inventory based upon our forecasts of product life cycle and customer demand.  If we are unable to accurately forecast product life cycle and customer demand or unable to manage our inventory levels in response to shifts in customer demand, the result may be insufficient, excess or obsolete product inventory.  Insufficient product inventory may impair our ability to fulfill product orders and negatively affect our revenues, while excess or obsolete inventory may require a write-down on products and components to their net realizable value, which would negatively affect our results of operations.. Our revenues and operating results depend significantly on our third-party reseller and distribution channels. Our failure to adequately manage our distribution channels for our products and services could adversely affect our revenues and gross margins and therefore our profitability.. We distribute many of our products indirectly through third-party resellers and distributors.  We also distribute products directly to end-user customers.  Successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect channel efforts to reach various potential customer industries for our products and services is a complex process.  For example, in response to our direct sales strategies or for other business reasons, our current resellers and distributors may from time to time choose to resell our competitors' products in addition to, or in place of, ours.  Moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, our failure to identify and implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenues and gross margins and therefore our profitability.. In addition, some of our resellers and distributors have rights of return, as well as inventory stock rotation and price protection.  Accordingly, reserves for estimated returns and exchanges, and credits for price protection, are recorded as a reduction of revenues upon applicable product shipment, and are based upon our historical experience.  Our reliance upon indirect distribution methods may reduce visibility to demand and pricing issues, and therefore make forecasting more difficult and, to the extent that returns exceed estimates, our revenues and operating results may be adversely affected.. Our products may experience quality issues that could negatively impact our customer relationships, our market reputation and our operating results.. Our software products, as is typical of sophisticated, complex software, occasionally include coding defects or errors (commonly referred to as \"bugs\"), which in some cases may interfere with or impair a customer's ability to operate or use the software.  Similarly, our hardware products could include design or manufacturing defects that could cause them to malfunction.  The quality control measures we use are not designed or intended to detect and remedy all defects.  The time and resources available to devote to quality control measures are, in part, dependent on other business considerations, such as meeting customer expectations with respect to release schedules.  Any product defects could result in loss of customers or revenues, delays in revenue recognition, increased product returns, damage to our market reputation and significant warranty or other expense and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results.. Our success depends in part on our ability to hire and retain competent and skilled management and technical, sales and other personnel.. We are dependent on the continued service and performance of our management team and key technical, sales and other personnel and our success will depend in part on our ability to retain these employees in a competitive job market. If we fail to appropriately match the skill sets of our employees to our needs, we may incur increased costs or experience challenges with execution of our strategic plan.  We rely on cash bonuses and equity awards as significant compensation and retention tools for key personnel.  In. 17. addition to compensation, we seek to foster an innovative work culture to retain employees. If we fail to maintain an inclusive and discrimination free workplace there is a risk that we may not be able to retain our employees. We also rely on the attractiveness of developing technology for the film, television and music industries as a means of retention. We continue to take actions to transform strategically, operationally and culturally and to achieve cost savings, all with the intent to drive improved operating performance both in the U.S. and internationally.. Our competitors may in some instances be able to offer a more established or more dynamic work environment, higher compensation or more opportunities to work with cutting-edge technology than we can.  If we are unable to retain our key personnel or appropriately match skill sets with our needs, we would be required to expend significant time and financial resources to identify and hire new qualified personnel and to transfer significant internal historical knowledge, which might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives.. Our intellectual property and trade secrets are valuable assets that may be subject to third-party infringement and misappropriation.. As a technology company, our intellectual property and trade secrets are among our most valuable assets.  Infringement or misappropriation of these assets can result in lost revenues, and thereby ultimately reduce their value.  We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions and anti-piracy technology in certain of our products to protect our intellectual property and trade secrets.  Most of these tools require vigilant monitoring of competitor and other third-party activities and of end-user usage of our products to be effective.  These tools may not provide adequate protection in all instances, may be subject to circumvention, or may require a vigilance that in some cases exceeds our capabilities or resources.  Additionally, our business model is increasingly focused on software products and, as we offer more software products, our revenues may be more vulnerable to loss through piracy, which could result in revenue losses.  While we may seek to engage with those potentially infringing our intellectual property to negotiate a license for use, we also may seek legal recourse, which could be costly.  The legal regimes of certain foreign jurisdictions in which we operate, may not protect our intellectual property or trade secrets to the same extent as do the laws of the United States.  If our intellectual property or trade secrets are misappropriated in foreign jurisdictions, we may be without adequate remedies to address these issues. Regardless of jurisdiction, assuming legal protection exists and infringement or misappropriation is detected, any enforcement action that we may pursue could be costly and time-consuming, the outcome will be uncertain, and the alleged offender in some cases may seek to have our intellectual property rights invalidated.  If we are unable to protect our intellectual property and trade secrets, our business could be harmed.. Our results could be materially adversely affected if we are accused of, or found to be, infringing third parties' intellectual property rights.. Because of technological change in our industry, extensive and sometimes uncertain patent coverage, and the rapid issuance of new patents, it is possible that certain of our products or business methods may infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties.  Companies in the technology industry own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Our technologies may not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use.  We have received claims, and are subject to litigation alleging, that we infringe patents owned by third parties, and we may in the future be subject to such claims and litigation.  Regardless of the scope or validity of such patents, or the merits of any patent claims by potential or actual litigants, we could incur substantial costs in defending intellectual property claims and litigation, and such claims and litigation could distract management's attention from normal business operations.  In addition, we provide indemnification provisions in agreements with certain customers covering potential claims by third parties of intellectual property infringement.  These agreements generally provide that we will indemnify customers for losses incurred in connection with an infringement claim brought by a third party with respect to our products, and we have received claims for such indemnification.  The results of any intellectual property litigation to which we are, or may become, a party, or for which we are required to provide indemnification, may require us to:. • cease selling or using products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property;. • make substantial payments for legal fees, settlement payments or other costs or damages;. • obtain a license, which may not be available on reasonable terms, to sell or use the relevant technology, which such license could require royalties that would significantly increase our cost of goods sold; or. 18. • redesign products or services to avoid infringement, where such redesign could involve significant costs and result in delayed and/or reduced sales of the affected products.. If we are unable to sell our professional products through retail sales channels, our operating results could be adversely affected.. We continue to have a presence in retail because our professional-level products are offered through specialty retail stores.  Our ability to continue to sell our professional products through certain retail sales channels may be impaired because we will sell fewer types of products and fewer units through those channels, impacting retailers' willingness to carry our professional-level products.. Potential acquisitions could be difficult to consummate and integrate into our operations, and they and investment transactions could disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or impair our financial results.. As part of our business strategy, from time to time we may seek to grow our business through acquisitions of or investments in new or complementary businesses, technologies or products that we believe can improve our ability to compete in our existing customer markets or allow us to enter new markets. The potential risks associated with acquisitions and investment transactions include, but are not limited to:. • failure to realize anticipated returns on investment, cost savings and synergies;. • difficulty in assimilating the operations, policies and personnel of the acquired company;. • unanticipated costs associated with acquisitions;. • challenges in combining product offerings and entering into new markets in which we may not have experience;. • distraction of management's attention from normal business operations;. • potential loss of key employees of the acquired company;. • difficulty implementing effective internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures;. • impairment of relationships with customers or suppliers;. • possibility of incurring impairment losses related to goodwill and intangible assets; and. • unidentified issues not discovered in due diligence, which may include product quality issues or legal or other contingencies.. In order to complete an acquisition or investment transaction, we may need to obtain financing, including through borrowings or the issuance of debt or equity securities.  This could potentially dilute existing stockholders.  We may borrow to finance an acquisition, and the amount and terms of any potential future acquisition-related borrowings, as well as other factors, could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and potentially our credit ratings.  We may not be able to consummate such financings on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, in which case our ability to complete desired acquisitions or investments and to implement our business strategy, and as a result our financial results, may be materially impaired.  In addition, business combinations and investment transactions could impact our effective tax rate. We may experience risks relating to the challenges and costs of closing a business combination or investment transaction and the risk that an announced business combination or investment transaction may not close.  As a result, any completed, pending or future transactions may contribute to financial results that differ from the investment community's expectations in a given quarter.. 19. Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions, the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our profitability.. We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions.  Our tax liabilities are affected by the amounts we charge for inventory, services, licenses and other items in intercompany transactions. We are also subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions.  Tax authorities may disagree with our intercompany charges, cross-jurisdictional transfer pricing or other matters and assess additional taxes.  We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision.  However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid upon the resolution of an audit could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and therefore, could have a material impact on our tax provision, net income and cash flows. In addition, our tax provision in the future could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws - including the recently enacted U.S. tax reform on December 22, 2017 commonly known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or TCJA, and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process.. We may be subject to litigation, which, if adversely determined, could harm our business and operating results.. The costs of defending litigation, whether in cash expenses or in management time, could harm our business and materially and adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. An unfavorable outcome in any litigation matter could require that we pay substantial damages, or, in connection with any intellectual property infringement claims, could require that we pay ongoing royalty payments or prohibit us from selling certain of our products. In addition, we may decide to settle any litigation, which could cause us to incur significant settlement costs. A settlement or an unfavorable outcome on any litigation matter could have a material and adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows.. We and certain of our officers have been named in class action lawsuits related to our disclosure surrounding the level of implementation of our Avid NEXIS solution product offerings, which could be expensive and could damage our business.. We and certain of our executive officers have been named in class action lawsuits relating to our disclosure surrounding the level of implementation of our Avid NEXIS solution product offerings. The pending litigation, and any future litigation or action that may be filed against us, our current or former directors or officers may be time consuming and expensive, and may distract management from the conduct of our business. Any such litigation or action could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, and may expose us to costly indemnification obligations to current or former officers, directors, or other personnel, regardless of the outcome of such matter.. A natural disaster or catastrophic event may significantly limit our ability to conduct business as normal and harm our business.. Our operations, and the operations of our customers, are vulnerable to interruptions by natural disasters and catastrophic events.  For example, we operate a complex, geographically dispersed business, which includes significant personnel, customers and facilities in California near major earthquake fault lines.  We may not be able to protect our company from such catastrophic events and we are predominantly uninsured for business continuity losses and disruptions caused by catastrophic events.  Disruption or failure of our or our customers' networks or systems, or injury or damage to either parties' personnel or physical infrastructure, caused by a natural disaster, public health crisis, terrorism, cyber attack, act of war or other catastrophic event may significantly limit our or our customers' ability to conduct business as normal, including our ability to communicate and transact with customers, suppliers, distributors and resellers, which may negatively affect our revenues and operating results.  Additionally, a natural disaster or catastrophic event could cause us or our customers to suspend all or a portion of operations for a significant period of time, result in a permanent loss of resources, and require the relocation of personnel and material to alternate facilities that may not be available or adequate.  Such an event could also cause an indirect economic impact on our customers, which could impact our customers' purchasing decisions and reduce demand for our products and services.  A prolonged disruption of our business could also damage our reputation, particularly among our global news organization customers who are likely to require our solutions and support during such time.  Any of these factors could cause a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results.. 20. Economic conditions and regulatory changes leading up to and following the United Kingdom's likely exit from the European Union could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. In June 2016, voters in the United Kingdom, or U.K., approved the country's exit from the European Union, and the U.K. government has commenced the legal process of leaving the European Union, typically referred to as \"Brexit.\"  While the full effects of Brexit will not be known for some time, Brexit could cause disruptions to, and create uncertainty surrounding, our business and results of operations. The most immediate effect of the referendum, and expected Brexit, has been significant volatility in global equity and debt markets and currency exchange rate fluctuations. Ongoing global market volatility and a deterioration in economic conditions due to uncertainty surrounding Brexit, could significantly disrupt the markets in which we operate and lead our customers to closely monitor their costs and delay capital spending decisions.. Additionally, the referendum and expected Brexit resulted in the immediate strengthening of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies in which we conduct business. Although this strengthening has been somewhat ameliorated by the British Government's stated desire to accomplish a transitional exit, because we translate revenue denominated in foreign currency into U.S. dollars for our financial statements, during periods of a strengthening U.S. Dollar, our reported revenue from foreign operations is reduced.. The effects of Brexit will depend on any agreements the U.K. makes to retain access to E.U. markets, either during a transitional period or more permanently. The measures could potentially disrupt the markets we serve and may cause us to lose customers and employees. In addition, Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. determines which E.U. laws to replace or replicate.. Any of these effects of Brexit could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Risks Related to Our Liquidity and Financial Performance. If we are not able to generate and maintain adequate liquidity our ability to operate our business could be adversely affected.. Generating and maintaining adequate liquidity is important to our business operations. We meet our liquidity needs primarily through cash generated by operations, supplemented from time to time with the proceeds of long-term debt and borrowings under our Credit Facility. We have the ability to borrow up to $10.0 million under the Credit Facility. We have also undertaken significant cost cutting measures, including, for example, pursuant to the restructuring plan we announced in February 2016, and we may take additional measures to further improve our liquidity. Significant fluctuations in our cash balances could harm our ability to meet our immediate liquidity needs, impair our capacity to react to sudden or unexpected contractions or growth in our business, reduce our ability to withstand a sustained period of economic crisis, and impair our ability to compete with competitors with greater financial resources.  In addition, fluctuations in our cash balances could cause us to draw on our Credit Facility and therefore reduce available funds under the Credit Facility (see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources\" in Item 7 of this Form 10-K). If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or our borrowings are not sufficient, our liquidity may significantly decrease, which could have an adverse effect on our business.. Restrictions in the Financing Agreement may limit our activities.. The Financing Agreement contains restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit us, including, among other things, limitations on our ability to make investments, incur additional indebtedness, issue equity, sell assets, pay dividends and make other restricted payments, and create liens. We are also required to comply on an ongoing basis with certain financial covenants, including a maximum leverage ratio and an annual limit on the amount of our capital expenditures.  Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants in the future is uncertain and could be affected by the levels of our cash flows from operations and events or circumstances beyond our control.  Failure to comply with any of these restrictions or covenants may result in an event of default under the Financing Agreement, which could permit acceleration of the outstanding indebtedness under the Financing Agreement and require us to repay such indebtedness before its scheduled due date. Certain events of default under the Financing Agreement may also give rise to a default under our convertible notes due 2020 or other future indebtedness.  If an event of default were to occur, we might not have sufficient funds available to make the payments. 21. required. If we are unable to repay amounts owed, our lenders may be entitled to foreclose on and sell substantially all of our assets, which secure our borrowings under the Financing Agreement.. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, cash flow and results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017 we had $204 million of long-term indebtedness, including the Notes and borrowings under the Financing Agreement. This substantial level of indebtedness may:. • require us to dedicate a greater percentage of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund capital expenditures, pursue other acquisitions or investments and use for general corporate purposes;. • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions, including increases in interest rates with respect to borrowings under the Financing Agreement that bear interest at variable rates or when our indebtedness is being refinanced;. • limit our ability to obtain additional financing; and. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in or challenges relating to our business and industry, creating competitive disadvantages compared to other competitors with lower debt levels and borrowing costs.. We cannot make any assurance that our cash flow from operations, combined with any additional borrowings available to us, will be sufficient to enable us to repay our indebtedness, or to fund other liquidity needs. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future, which could cause these risks to intensify. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows to repay indebtedness when due or to fund our other liquidity needs, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations.. We recognized a significant amount of revenue in recent years due to the amortization of deferred revenue attributable to transactions occurring in the past.  The reduction in deferred revenues resulted in increased revenue and gross margin and our reported net income for the fiscal years 2015 and 2016.  Revenue from the amortization of deferred revenue will not recur to the same extent in future periods; as a result, there are no assurances that we will be able to report net income in future periods.  In addition, as less revenue is recognized from deferred revenue amortization and we adopt a new accounting standard for revenue recognition, we may experience greater volatility in our quarterly and annual operating results.. As a result of our historical practice of providing Implied Maintenance Release PCS on many of our products, we were required, under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP, to recognize revenue for many of these transactions ratably over a period that typically ranged from three to six years.  Due to changes in accounting rules, namely Accounting Standards Update, or ASU, No. 2009-13 and ASU No. 2009-14, and the cessation of our practice of providing Implied Maintenance Release PCS for many of our products, revenue from older transactions continues to be recognized and, in some cases, accelerated into revenue.  This resulted in significant increases to revenue and declines in deferred revenue during 2015, 2016 and 2017.  New sales of many of the same products now qualify for upfront recognition and do not add significantly to deferred revenue balances.  As a result, revenue attributable to older transactions has been declining significantly in recent periods as corresponding deferred revenue is fully amortized and not being replenished by new transactions. Deferred revenue for the fiscal years 2015, 2016 and 2017 declined approximately $69 million, $123 million and $31 million, respectively.. The amortization of deferred revenue described above resulted in our reporting a smaller net loss of $14 million in 2017 and net income of approximately $48 million in 2016 and $2 million in 2015.  With the impact of deferred revenue amortization declining significantly in future periods, there are no assurances that we will be able to report net income in future periods.  In addition, declining amortization of deferred revenue will also make it more difficult to comply with the maximum leverage ratio requirement of our Financing Agreement.  Our financial results and the impact of the deferred revenue are discussed in \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" in Item 7 of this Form 10-K.. 22. The adoption of ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606) on January 1, 2018, which will require virtually all product sales to be recognized as revenue upon delivery, will further impact our deferred revenue balances since, upon adoption, using the modified retrospective method, we will be required to record a cumulative reduction of deferred revenue for many transactions that had qualified for subscription accounting under legacy GAAP.  We expect that between $95 million and $115 million of the deferred revenue recorded as of December 31, 2017 will be eliminated upon adoption of ASC 606, on January 1, 2018.  Following adoption of ASC 606, we expect to recognize a greater proportion of revenue upon delivery of our products, whereas some of our current product sales are initially recorded in deferred revenue and recognized over a long period of time. Accordingly, our operating results may become more volatile as a result of the adoption.. The significant reduction of deferred revenue due to the factors described above will also result in increased volatility in future quarterly and annual periods, as revenue and operating results are more immediately impacted by current period sales and shipment activity.  As a result, we may experience increased volatility in quarterly and annual operating performance in fiscal year 2018 and beyond.. Our revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate from period to period.. Our results of operations have been, and may continue to, be subject to significant quarterly variation. Our revenues and operating results for any particular quarter may also vary due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those enumerated under the section \"Cautionary Note on Forward-Looking Statements,\" appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-K and:. • the timing of large or enterprise-wide sales and our ability to recognize revenues from such sales;. • demand planning and logistics;. • reliance on third-party reseller and distribution channels;. • changes in operating expenses;. • price protections and provisions for inventory obsolescence extended to resellers and distributors;. • seasonal factors, such as higher consumer demand at year-end; and. • complex accounting rules for revenue recognition.. The occurrence and interaction of these variables may cause our revenues and operating results to fluctuate from period to period.  As a result, period-to-period comparisons of our revenues and operating results may not provide a good indication of our future performance.  We cannot be certain when, or if, our operations will be profitable in future periods.. Our revenue backlog estimates are based on certain assumptions and are subject to unexpected adjustments and cancellations and backlog orders may not be timely converted to revenues in any particular fiscal period, if at all, or be indicative of our actual operating results for any future period.. Our revenue backlog, as we define it, consists of firm orders received and includes both (i) orders where the customer has paid in advance of our performance obligations being fulfilled, which are reflected as deferred revenues on our balance sheet, and (ii) orders for future product deliveries or services that have not yet been invoiced by us.  To the extent that our customers cancel their orders with us, or reduce their requirements during a particular period for any reason, we will not realize revenue or profit from the associated revenue backlog.  Even where a project proceeds as scheduled, it is possible that the customer may default and fail to pay amounts owed to us.  Material delays, payment defaults or cancellations could reduce the amount of revenue backlog currently reported, and consequently, could inhibit the conversion of that backlog into revenues.  Furthermore, orders included in our revenue backlog may not be profitable.  We may experience variances in the realization of our revenue backlog because of project delays or cancellations resulting from external market factors and economic factors beyond our control. As a result, even if we realize all of the revenue from the projects in our revenue backlog, if our expenses associated with these projects are higher than expected, our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected.. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may result in short-term currency exchange losses and could adversely affect our revenues from foreign markets and our manufacturing costs in the long term.. Our international sales are, for the most part, transacted through foreign subsidiaries and generally in the currency of the end-user customers.  Consequently, we are exposed to short-term currency exchange risks that may adversely affect our revenues,. 23. operating results and cash flows.  The majority of our international sales are transacted in euros.  To hedge against the dollar/euro exchange exposure of the resulting forecasted payables, receivables and cash balances, we may enter into foreign currency contracts.  The success of our hedging programs depends on the accuracy of our forecasts of transaction activity in foreign currency.  To the extent that these forecasts are over- or understated during periods of currency volatility, we may experience currency gains or losses.  Our hedging activities, if enacted, may only offset a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movement in dollar/euro exchange rates, which could adversely affect our financial position or results of operations.. Furthermore, the significance to our business of sales in Europe subjects us to risks associated with long-term changes in the dollar/euro exchange rate.  A sustained strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the euro would decrease our expected future U.S. dollar revenues from European sales, and could have a significant adverse effect on our overall profit margins.  During the past few years, economic instability in Europe, including concern over sovereign debt in Greece, Italy, Ireland and certain other European Union countries, caused significant fluctuations in the value of the euro relative to those of other currencies, including the U.S. dollar.  Continuing uncertainty regarding economic conditions, including the solvency of these countries and the stability of the Eurozone, could lead to significant long-term economic weakness and reduced economic growth in Europe, the occurrence of which, or the potential occurrence of which, could lead to a sustained strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the euro, adversely affecting the profitability of our European operations.. In addition, we source and manufacture many of our products in China and our costs may increase should the renminbi not remain stable with the U.S. dollar.  Although the renminbi is pegged against a basket of currencies determined by the People's Bank of China, the renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the long term.  In addition, if China were to permit the renminbi to float to a free market rate of exchange, it is widely anticipated that the renminbi would appreciate significantly in value against U.S. dollar.  An increase in the value of the renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have the effect of increasing the labor and production costs of our Chinese manufacturers in U.S. dollar terms, which may result in their passing such costs to us in the form of increased pricing, which would adversely affect our profit margins if we could not pass those price increases along to our customers.. Global economic weakness and uncertainty could adversely affect our revenues, gross margins and expenses.. Our business is impacted by global economic conditions, which have been in recent years, and continue to, be volatile.  Specifically, our revenues and gross margins depend significantly on global economic conditions and the demand for our products and services in the markets in which we compete.  Economic weakness and uncertainty have resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased revenue, gross margin, earnings or growth rates and difficulty managing inventory levels.  Sustained uncertainty about global economic conditions may adversely affect demand for our products and services and could cause demand to differ materially from our expectations as customers curtail or delay spending on our products and services.  Economic weakness and uncertainty also make it more difficult for us to make accurate forecasts of revenues, gross margins and expenses.. The inability of our customers to obtain credit in the future may impair their ability to make timely payments to us.  Tightening of credit by financial institutions could also lead customers to postpone spending or to cancel, decrease or delay their existing or future orders with us.  Customer insolvencies could negatively impact our revenues and our ability to collect receivables.  Financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers or distributors could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges.  In the event we are impacted by global economic weakness, we may record additional charges relating to restructuring costs or the impairment of assets, and our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Any attempt by the United States to withdraw from, or materially modify NAFTA, and certain other international trade agreements, or attempts to impose tariffs or otherwise limit international trade could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A significant portion of our business activities is conducted in foreign countries, including Mexico and China. The current Administration has indicated that it is not supportive of certain existing international trade agreements, including the North American Free Trade Agreement, or NAFTA. The current Administration has also indicated that it may impose certain tariffs or consider other limitations on international trade.  If the U.S. takes action to withdraw from or materially modify NAFTA, or certain other international trade agreements, or to otherwise limit international trade, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. 24. Risks Related to Our Stock. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile.. The market price of our common stock has historically experienced volatility. Our stock may continue to fluctuate substantially in the future in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control.  These factors include, but are not limited to:. • period-to-period variations in our revenues or operating results;. • our failure to accurately forecast revenues or operating results or to report financial or operating results within the range of our previously issued guidance;. • our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements;. • whether our results meet analysts' expectations;. • market reaction to significant corporate initiatives or announcements;. • our ability to innovate;. • our relative competitive position within our markets;. • shifts in markets or demand for our solutions;. • changes in our relationships with suppliers, resellers, distributors or customers;. • our commencement of, or involvement in, litigation;. • short sales, hedging or other derivative transactions involving shares of our common stock; and. • shifts in financial markets and fluctuations of exchange rates.. Additionally, broader financial market and global economic trends may affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance.. Delaware law and our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could reduce the market price of our common stock.. We are a Delaware corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our board of directors, or a committee thereof, has the power, without stockholder approval, to designate the terms of one or more series of preferred stock and issue shares of preferred stock. The ability of our board of directors or a committee thereof to create and issue a new series of preferred stock, our stockholders rights plan, and certain provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us, or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market price of our common stock.. Risks related to our 2.00% convertible senior notes due 2020. The use of cash to satisfy our conversion obligation under the Notes may adversely affect our liquidity, and we may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to settle conversions in cash or to repurchase the Notes upon a fundamental change. The agreements governing our other indebtedness may contain limitations on our ability to pay cash upon conversion or repurchase of the Notes.. On June 15, 2015, we completed an offering of $125.0 million aggregate principal amount of the Notes.  The Notes may be converted into shares of our common stock, at the election of the holder, if certain conditions are met, including, among other things, the last reported sale price of the common stock being greater than or equal to 130% of the conversion price of the Notes (initially $21.94 per share) for at least 20 trading days within a period of 30 consecutive trading days.  In the event the conditional conversion feature of the Notes is triggered, and one or more holders elect to convert their Notes, we may elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by paying cash or by delivering shares of our common stock.  Further, holders of the Notes have the right to require us to repurchase their Notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, which generally means a merger, sale of all or substantially all of our assets, or other similar change of control transaction.  To the extent we do not elect to satisfy our. 25. conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock, we would be required to settle a portion or all of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash.  The use of cash to settle our conversion obligation could adversely affect our liquidity. Further, we may not have enough available cash, or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make repurchases of the Notes surrendered or to make cash payments in respect of Notes being converted.  The Financing Agreement contains a restriction on our ability to settle conversions of the Notes with cash.. The conditional conversion feature of the Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our operating results.. Even if holders do not elect to convert their Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the Notes as a current, rather than long-term, liability which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital.. Our failure to repurchase Notes or pay any cash upon conversion of the Notes would constitute a default under the indenture governing the Notes, and could cause defaults under our other or future indebtedness.. Our failure to repurchase Notes or pay any cash upon conversion of the Notes as required by the indenture governing the Notes would constitute a default under the indenture.  This kind of default under the indenture would also constitute a default under the Financing Agreement, and it could constitute a default under agreements governing our future indebtedness. If the repayment of the indebtedness under the Financing Agreement, or any other indebtedness, were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the Notes or make cash payments upon conversions thereof.. The capped call transaction may affect the trading price of our common stock.. In connection with the offering of the Notes, we entered into the Capped Call. The primary purpose of the Capped Call was to reduce potential dilution to our common stock and/or offset any cash payments we may be required to make in excess of the principal amount, in each case, upon any conversion of Notes. In order to establish a hedge of the Capped Call, the Counterparty may have entered into various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock, and it may modify its hedge positions from time to time by entering into or unwinding various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock or other securities in secondary market transactions prior to the maturity of the Notes.  The Counterparty is likely to undertake these activities during, and potentially prior to, any observation period related to a conversion of the Notes. These activities could cause or avoid an increase or a decrease in the market price of our common stock."
