[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. RISK FACTORS. The following factors could have a significant impact on our operations, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. These factors could cause future results or outcomes to differ materially from those discussed in our reports filed with the SEC (including this Annual Report on Form 10-K), and elsewhere. Please also see \"Forward-Looking Statements\" for additional factors which could have a significant impact on our operations, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows and could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in such statements.. 20. Table of Contents. AVISTA CORPORATION. Financial Risk Factors. Weather (temperatures, precipitation levels, wind patterns and storms) has a significant effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Weather impacts are described in the following subtopics:. • certain retail electricity and natural gas sales,. • the cost of natural gas supply, and. • the cost of power supply.. Certain retail electricity and natural gas sales volumes vary directly with changes in temperatures. We normally have our highest retail (electric and natural gas) energy sales during the winter heating season in the first and fourth quarters of the year. We also have high electricity demand for air conditioning during the summer (third quarter) in the Pacific Northwest. In general, warmer weather in the heating season and cooler weather in the cooling season will reduce our customers' energy demand and our retail operating revenues. The revenue and earnings impact of weather fluctuations is somewhat mitigated by our decoupling mechanisms; however, we could experience liquidity constraints during the period between when decoupling revenue is earned and when it is subsequently collected from customers through retail rates.. The cost of natural gas supply tends to increase with higher demand during periods of cold weather. Increased costs adversely affect cash flows when we purchase natural gas for retail supply at prices above the amount then allowed for recovery in retail rates. We defer differences between actual natural gas supply costs and the amount currently recovered in retail rates and we are generally allowed to recover substantially all of these differences after regulatory review. However, these deferred costs require cash outflows from the time of natural gas purchases until the costs are later recovered through retail sales. Inter-regional natural gas pipelines and competition for supply can allow demand-driven price volatility in other regions of North America to affect prices in the Pacific Northwest, even though there may be less extreme weather conditions in the Pacific Northwest.. The cost of power supply can be significantly affected by weather. Precipitation (consisting of snowpack, its water content and melting pattern plus rainfall) and other streamflow conditions (such as regional water storage operations) significantly affect hydroelectric generation capability. Variations in hydroelectric generation inversely affect our reliance on market purchases and thermal generation. To the extent that hydroelectric generation is less than normal, significantly more costly power supply resources must be acquired and the ability to realize net benefits from surplus hydroelectric wholesale sales is reduced. Wholesale prices also vary based on wind patterns as wind generation capacity is material in the Pacific Northwest but its contribution to supply is inconsistent.. The price of power in the wholesale energy markets tends to be higher during periods of high regional demand, such as occurs with temperature extremes. We may need to purchase power in the wholesale market during peak price periods. The price of natural gas as fuel for natural gas-fired electric generation also tends to increase during periods of high demand which are often related to temperature extremes. We may need to purchase natural gas fuel in these periods of high prices to meet electric demands. The cost of power supply during peak usage periods may be higher than the retail sales price or the amount allowed in retail rates by our regulators. To the extent that power supply costs are above the amount allowed currently in retail rates, the difference is partially absorbed by the Company in current expense and it is partially deferred or shared with customers through regulatory mechanisms.. The price of power tends to be lower during periods with excess supply, such as the spring when hydroelectric conditions are usually at their maximum and various facilities are required to operate to meet environmental mandates. Oversupply can be exacerbated when intermittent resources such as wind generation are producing output that may be supported by price subsidies. In extreme situations, we may be required to sell excess energy at negative prices.. As a result of these combined factors, our net cost of power supply  -  the difference between our costs of generation and market purchases, reduced by our revenue from wholesale sales  -  varies significantly because of weather.. We rely on regular access to financial markets but we cannot assure favorable or reasonable financing terms will be available when we need them.. Access to capital markets is critical to our operations and our capital structure. We have significant capital requirements that we expect to fund, in part, by accessing capital markets. As such, the state of financial markets and credit availability in the global, United States and regional economies impacts our financial condition. We could experience increased borrowing costs or limited access to capital on reasonable terms.. We access long-term capital markets to finance capital expenditures, repay maturing long-term debt and obtain additional working capital from time-to-time. Our ability to access capital on reasonable terms is subject to numerous factors and market. 21. Table of Contents. AVISTA CORPORATION. conditions, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to obtain capital on reasonable terms, it may limit or prohibit our ability to finance capital expenditures and repay maturing long-term debt. Our liquidity needs could exceed our short-term credit availability and lead to defaults on various financing arrangements. We would also likely be prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock.. Performance of the financial markets could also result in significant declines in the market values of assets held by our pension plan and/or a significant increase in the pension liability (which impacts the funded status of the plan) and could increase future funding obligations and pension expense.. We rely on credit from financial institutions for short-term borrowings. We need adequate levels of credit with financial institutions for short-term liquidity. We have a $400.0 million committed line of credit that expires in April 2021. Our subsidiary AEL&P has a $25.0 million committed line of credit that expires in November 2019. There is no assurance that we will have access to credit beyond these expiration dates. The committed line of credit agreements contain customary covenants and default provisions.. Any default on the lines of credit or other financing arrangements of Avista Corp. or any of our \"significant subsidiaries,\" if any, could result in cross-defaults to other agreements of such entity, and/or to the line of credit or other financing arrangements of any other of such entities. Any defaults could also induce vendors and other counterparties to demand collateral. In the event of any such default, it would be difficult for us to obtain financing on reasonable terms to pay creditors or fund operations. We would also likely be prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock.. We hedge a portion of our interest rate risk with financial derivative instruments, which may include interest rate swap derivatives and U.S. Treasury lock agreements.  If market interest rates decrease below the interest rates we have locked in, this will result in a liability related to our interest rate swap derivatives, which can be significant. As of December 31, 2017, we had a net interest rate swap derivative liability of $66.0 million, reflecting a decline in interest rates since the time we entered into the agreements. We did not have any U.S. Treasury lock agreements outstanding as of December 31, 2017. We may be required to post cash or letters of credit as collateral depending on fluctuations in the fair value of the derivative instruments. Settlement of interest rate swap derivative instruments in a liability position could require a significant amount of cash, which could negatively impact our liquidity and short-term credit availability and increase interest expense over the term of the associated debt.. In our 2017 Washington electric and natural gas general rate cases, WUTC Staff recommended the exclusion of our 2016 settled interest rate swaps from the cost of capital calculation. The total amount of the 2016 settled interest rate swaps was $54.0 million, with approximately 60 percent of this total being allocated to Washington. If recovery of the 2016 settled interest rate swap payments referenced above is not approved by the WUTC, this could change our current conclusion that settlement payments related to the 2017 settled interest rate swaps and the unsettled interest rate swaps are probable of recovery through rates. See \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis  -  Regulatory Matters  -  2017 Washington General Rate Cases\" for further discussion of this issue.. Downgrades in our credit ratings could impede our ability to obtain financing, adversely affect the terms of financing and impact our ability to transact for or hedge energy resources. If we do not maintain our investment grade credit rating with the major credit rating agencies, we could expect increased debt service costs, limitations on our ability to access capital markets or obtain other financing on reasonable terms, and requirements to provide collateral (in the form of cash or letters of credit) to lenders and counterparties. In addition, credit rating downgrades could reduce the number of counterparties willing to do business with us or result in the termination of outstanding regulatory authorizations for certain financing activities.. Credit risk may be affected by industry concentration and geographic concentration.. We have concentrations of suppliers and customers in the electric and natural gas industries including:. • electric and natural gas utilities,. • electric generators and transmission providers,. • oil and natural gas producers and pipelines,. • financial institutions including commodity clearing exchanges and related parties, and. • energy marketing and trading companies.. We have concentrations of credit risk related to our geographic location in the western United States and western Canada energy markets. These concentrations of counterparties and concentrations of geographic location may affect our overall exposure to credit risk because the counterparties may be similarly affected by changes in conditions.. 22. Table of Contents. AVISTA CORPORATION. Utility Regulatory Risk Factors. Regulators may not grant rates that provide timely or sufficient recovery of our costs or allow a reasonable rate of return for our shareholders.. Avista Utilities' annual operating expenses and the costs associated with incremental investments in utility assets continue to grow at a faster rate than revenue growth. Our ability to recover these expenses and capital costs depends on the amount and timeliness of retail rate changes allowed by regulatory agencies. We expect to periodically file for rate increases with regulatory agencies to recover our expenses and capital costs and provide an opportunity to earn a reasonable rate of return for shareholders. If regulators do not grant rate increases or grant substantially lower rate increases than our requests in the future or if recovery of deferred expenses is disallowed, it could have a negative effect on our operating revenues, net income and cash flows. Negative impacts to our financial results may result in our credit ratings being downgraded which may make it more costly for us to issue future debt securities and could increase borrowing costs under our credit facilities. See further discussion of regulatory matters in \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis  -  Regulatory Matters.\". In the future, we may no longer meet the criteria for continued application of regulatory accounting practices for all or a portion of our regulated operations.. If we could no longer apply regulatory accounting, we could be:. • required to write off our regulatory assets, and. • precluded from the future deferral of costs or decoupled revenues not recovered through rates at the time such amounts are incurred, even if we are expected to recover these amounts from customers in the future.. See further discussion at \"Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  -  Regulatory Deferred Charges and Credits\" and \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis  -  Regulatory Matters  -  2017 Washington General Rate Cases.\". Energy Commodity Risk Factors. Energy commodity price changes affect our cash flows and results of operations.. Energy commodity prices can be volatile. We rely on energy markets and other counterparties for energy supply, surplus and optimization transactions and commodity price hedging. A combination of factors exposes our operations to commodity price risks, including:. • our obligation to serve our retail customers at rates set through the regulatory process - we cannot decline to serve our customers and we cannot change retail rates to reflect current energy prices unless and until we receive regulatory approval,. • customer demand, which is beyond our control because of weather, customer choices, prevailing economic conditions and other factors,. • some of our energy supply cost is fixed by the nature of the energy-producing assets or through contractual arrangements (however, a significant portion of our energy resource costs are not fixed), and. • the potential non-performance by commodity counterparties, which could lead to replacement of the scheduled energy or natural gas at higher prices.. Because we must supply the amount of energy demanded by our customers and we must sell it at fixed rates and only a portion of our energy supply costs are fixed, we are subject to the risk of buying energy at higher prices in wholesale energy markets (and the risk of selling energy at lower prices if we are in a surplus position). Electricity and natural gas in wholesale markets are commodities with historically high price volatility. Changes in wholesale energy prices affect, among other things, the cash requirements to purchase electricity and natural gas for retail customers or wholesale obligations and the market value of derivative assets and liabilities.. When we enter into fixed price energy commodity transactions for future delivery, we are subject to credit terms that may require us to provide collateral to wholesale counterparties related to the difference between current prices and the agreed upon fixed prices. These collateral requirements can place significant demands on our cash flows or borrowing arrangements. Price volatility can cause collateral requirements to change quickly and significantly.. Cash flow deferrals related to energy commodities can be significant. We are permitted to collect from customers only amounts approved by regulatory commissions. However, our costs to provide energy service can be much higher or lower than the amounts currently billed to customers. We are permitted to defer income statement recognition and recovery from customers for some of these differences, which are recorded as deferred charges with the opportunity for future recovery. 23. Table of Contents. AVISTA CORPORATION. through retail rates. These deferred costs are subject to review for prudence and potential disallowance by regulators, who have discretion as to the extent and timing of future recovery or refund to customers.. Power and natural gas costs higher than those recovered in retail rates reduce cash flows. Amounts that are not allowed for deferral or which are not approved to become part of customer rates affect our results of operations.. Even if our regulators ultimately allow us to recover deferred power and natural gas costs, our operating cash flows can be negatively affected until these costs are recovered from customers.. Fluctuating energy commodity prices and volumes in relation to our energy risk management process can cause volatility in our cash flows and results of operations. We engage in active hedging and resource optimization practices to reduce energy cost volatility and economic exposure related to commodity price fluctuations. We routinely enter into contracts to hedge a portion of our purchase and sale commitments for electricity and natural gas, as well as forecasted excess or deficit energy positions and inventories of natural gas. We use physical energy contracts and derivative instruments, such as forwards, futures, swaps and options traded in the over-the-counter markets or on exchanges. We do not attempt to fully hedge our energy resource assets or our forecasted net positions for various time horizons. To the extent we have positions that are not hedged, or if hedging positions do not fully match the corresponding purchase or sale, fluctuating commodity prices could have a material effect on our operating revenues, resource costs, derivative assets and liabilities, and operating cash flows. In addition, actual loads and resources typically vary from forecasts, sometimes to a significant degree, which require additional transactions or dispatch decisions that impact cash flows.. The hedges we enter into are reviewed for prudence by our various regulators and any deferred costs (including those as a result of our hedging transactions) are subject to review for prudence and potential disallowance by regulators.. Generation plants may become obsolete. We rely on a variety of generation and energy commodity market sources to fulfill our obligation to serve customers and meet the demands of our counterparty agreements. There is the potential that some of our generation sources, such as coal, may become obsolete or be prematurely retired through regulatory action. This could result in higher commodity costs to replace the lost generation, as well as higher costs to retire the generation source before the end of its expected life.. Operational Risk Factors. We are subject to various operational and event risks.. Our operations are subject to operational and event risks that include:. • severe weather or natural disasters, including, but not limited to, avalanches, wind storms, wildfires, earthquakes, snow and ice storms, which can disrupt energy generation, transmission and distribution, as well as the availability and costs of materials, equipment, supplies support services and general business operations,. • blackouts or disruptions of interconnected transmission systems (the regional power grid),. • unplanned outages at generating plants,. • fuel cost and availability, including delivery constraints,. • explosions, fires, accidents, or mechanical breakdowns that may occur while operating and maintaining our generation, transmission and distribution systems,. • damage or injuries to third parties caused by our generation, transmission and distribution systems,. • natural disasters that can disrupt energy generation, transmission and distribution, and general business operations,. • terrorist attacks or other malicious acts that may disrupt or cause damage to our utility assets or the vendors we utilize, and. • work force issues, including changes in collective bargaining unit agreements, strikes, work stoppages, the loss of key executives, availability of workers in a variety of skill areas, and our ability to recruit and retain employees.. Disasters may affect the general economy, financial and capital markets, specific industries, or our ability to conduct business. As protection against operational and event risks, we maintain business continuity and disaster recovery plans, maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses and we seek to negotiate indemnification arrangements with contractors for certain event risks. However, insurance or indemnification agreements may not be adequate to protect us against liability, extra expenses and operating disruptions from all of the operational and event risks described above. In addition, we are subject to the risk that insurers and/or other parties will dispute or be unable to perform on their obligations to us.. 24. Table of Contents. AVISTA CORPORATION. Damage to facilities may be caused by severe weather or natural disasters, such as snow, ice, wind storms, wildfires, earthquakes or avalanches. The cost to implement rapid or any repair to such facilities can be significant. Overhead electric lines are most susceptible to damage caused by severe weather.. Adverse impacts may occur at our Alaska operations that could result from an extended outage of their hydroelectric generating resources or its inability to deliver energy, due to their lack of interconnectivity to any other electrical grids and the extensive cost of replacement power (diesel).. AEL&P operates several hydroelectric power generation facilities and has diesel generating capacity from multiple facilities to provide backup service to firm customers when necessary; however, a single hydroelectric power generation facility, the Snettisham hydroelectric project, provides approximately two-thirds of AEL&P's hydroelectric power generation. Any issues that negatively affect AEL&P's ability to generate or transmit power or any decrease in the demand for the power generated by AEL&P could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Compliance Risk Factors. There have been numerous changes in legislation, related administrative rulemakings, and Executive Orders, including periodic audits of compliance with such rules, which may adversely affect our operational and financial performance.. We expect to continue to be affected by legislation at the national, state and local level, as well as by administrative rules and requirements published by government agencies, including but not limited to the FERC, the EPA and state regulators. We are also subject to NERC and WECC reliability standards. The FERC, the NERC and the WECC perform periodic audits of the Company. Failure to comply with the FERC, the NERC, or the WECC requirements can result in financial penalties of up to $1 million per day per violation.. Future legislation or administrative rules could have a material adverse effect on our operations, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Actions or limitations to address concerns over long-term climate change, both globally and within our utilities' service areas, may affect our operations and financial performance.. Legislative, regulatory and advocacy efforts at the state, national and international levels concerning climate change and other environmental issues could have significant impacts on our operations. The electric and natural gas utility industries are frequently affected by proposals to curb greenhouse gas and other air emissions. Various regulatory and legislative proposals have been made to limit or further restrict byproducts of combustion, including that resulting from the use of natural gas by our customers. In addition, regionally, there are a number of regulatory and legislative initiatives that have been proposed which could introduce carbon pricing or cap-and-trade mechanisms related to greenhouse gas emissions, and we cannot predict whether any such proposals will be enacted. Such proposals, if adopted, could restrict the operation and raise the costs of our power generation resources as well as the distribution of natural gas to our customers.. We expect continuing activity in the future and we are evaluating the extent to which potential changes to environmental laws and regulations may:. • increase the operating costs of generating plants,. • increase the lead time and capital costs for the construction of new generating plants,. • require modification of our existing generating plants,. • require existing generating plant operations to be curtailed or shut down,. • reduce the amount of energy available from our generating plants,. • restrict the types of generating plants that can be built or contracted with,. • require construction of specific types of generation plants at higher cost, and. • increase the cost of distributing natural gas to customers.. We have contingent liabilities, including certain matters related to potential environmental liabilities, and cannot predict the outcome of these matters.. In the normal course of our business, we have matters that are the subject of ongoing litigation, mediation, investigation and/or negotiation. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome or potential impact of any particular issue, including the extent, if any, of insurance coverage or that amounts payable by us may be recoverable through the ratemaking process. We are subject to environmental regulation by federal, state and local authorities related to our past, present and future operations. See \"Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements\" for further details of these matters.. 25. Table of Contents. AVISTA CORPORATION. Technology Risk Factors. Cyber attacks, terrorism or other malicious acts could disrupt our businesses and have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows.. In the course of our operations, we rely on interconnected technology systems for operation of our generating plants, electric transmission and distribution systems, natural gas distribution systems, customer billing and customer service, accounting and other administrative processes and compliance with various regulations. In addition, in the ordinary course of business, we collect and retain sensitive information including personal information about our customers and employees.. There are various risks associated with technology systems such as hardware or software failure, communications failure, data distortion or destruction, unauthorized access to data, misuse of proprietary or confidential data, unauthorized control through electronic means, programming mistakes and other deliberate or inadvertent human errors. In particular, cyber attacks, terrorism or other malicious acts could damage, destroy or disrupt these systems. Additionally, the facilities and systems of clients, suppliers and third party service providers could be vulnerable to these same risks and, to the extent of interconnection to our technology, may impact us. Any failure, unexpected, or unauthorized use of technology systems could result in the unavailability of such systems, and could result in a loss of operating revenues, an increase in operating expenses and costs to repair or replace damaged assets. Any of the above could also result in the loss or release of confidential customer and/or employee information or other proprietary data that could adversely affect our reputation and competitiveness, could result in costly litigation and negatively impact our results of operations. These cyber attacks have become more common and sophisticated and, as such, we could be required to incur costs to strengthen our systems and respond to emerging concerns.. Terrorist attacks could also be directed at physical electric and natural gas facilities, as well as technology systems.. We may be adversely affected by our inability to successfully implement certain technology projects.. We are currently planning to replace all of our electric meter infrastructure in Washington State with two-way communication advanced metering infrastructure (AMI). There is the risk that regulators will not allow the full recovery of new AMI. In addition, there are inherent risks associated with replacing and changing these types of systems, such as incorrect or nonfunctioning metering and/or delayed or inaccurate customer bills or unplanned outages, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Finally, there is the risk that we ultimately do not complete the project and will incur contract cancellation or other costs, which could be significant.. Strategic Risk Factors. Our strategic business plans, which may be affected by any or all of the foregoing, may change, including the entry into new businesses and/or the exit from existing businesses and the extent of our business development efforts where potential future business is uncertain.. Our strategic business plans could be affected by or result in any of the following:. • disruptive innovations in the marketplace may outpace our ability to compete or manage our risk,. • potential difficulties in integrating acquired operations and in realizing expected opportunities, diversions of management resources and losses of key employees, challenges with respect to operating new businesses and other unanticipated risks and liabilities,. • market or other conditions may adversely affect our operations or require changes to our business strategy, which could result in a non-cash goodwill impairment charge that would reduce assets and reduce our net income, and. • potential reputational risk arising from repeated general rate case filings, degradation in the quality of service, or from failed strategic investments and opportunities, which could erode shareholder, customer and community satisfaction with our Company.. We are subject to various risks specifically related to the proposed acquisition by Hydro One.. The conditions to the acquisition may not be satisfied.. The proposed acquisition by Hydro One requires approval by the holders of a majority of Avista Corp.'s outstanding shares of common stock and the receipt of regulatory approvals, including from the FERC, the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS), the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), the WUTC, IPUC, MPSC, OPUC, and the RCA. Also, the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended is required. Avista Corp. shareholder and FERC approval have been obtained; however, the other regulatory approvals may not be obtained or the regulatory bodies may seek to impose conditions on the completion of the transaction, which could cause the conditions specified in the Merger Agreement to not be satisfied or which could delay or increase the. 26. Table of Contents. AVISTA CORPORATION. cost of the transaction. In addition, the failure to satisfy other closing conditions could result in a termination of the Merger Agreement by Hydro One and/or Avista Corp.. We may be required to pay a termination fee if the acquisition is not consummated.. Upon termination of the Merger Agreement under certain specified circumstances, we would be required to pay Hydro One a termination fee of $103.0 million (Company Termination Fee). We would also be required to pay Hydro One the Company Termination Fee in the event that we signed or consummated any specified alternative transaction within twelve months following the termination of the Merger Agreement under certain circumstances. Any fees due as a result of termination could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.. Failure to consummate the acquisition could negatively impact the market value of Avista Corp. common stock and our access to and cost of capital.. There can be no assurance that the Merger will be consummated. Failure to consummate the Merger could (i) affect the value of Avista Corp.'s common stock, including by reducing it to a level at or below the trading range preceding the announcement of the Merger Agreement and (ii) negatively affect our access to and cost of both equity and debt financing.. Additionally, if the Merger is not consummated, we would have incurred significant costs and diverted the time and attention of management. A failure to consummate the Merger might also result in negative publicity, litigation against Avista Corp. or its directors and officers, and a negative impression of Avista Corp. in the financial markets. The occurrence of any of these events individually or in combination could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and stock price.. We have been faced with legal proceedings related to the pending acquisition by Hydro One.. In connection with the proposed acquisition, as of the date of this annual report, three lawsuits have been filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Washington and one lawsuit has been filed in the Superior Court for the State of Washington in and for Spokane County. These lawsuits were filed against members of the Company's Board of Directors and various other parties. The three lawsuits filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Washington have been voluntarily dismissed by the plaintiffs, leaving only the state lawsuit remaining.. The remaining complaint generally alleges that the members of the Board breached their fiduciary duties by, among other things, conducting an allegedly inadequate sale process and agreeing to the acquisition at a price that allegedly undervalues Avista Corp., and that Hydro One, Olympus Holding Corp., and Olympus Corp. aided and abetted those purported breaches of duty. The aiding and abetting claims were brought only against Hydro One, Olympus Holding Corp. and Olympus Corp. The complaints seek various remedies, including an injunction against the acquisition and monetary damages, including attorneys' fees and expenses. The complaint has been stayed by the court until the closing of the transaction at which time the plaintiff will have the option to file an amended complaint within 30 days of such closing. If the amended complaint is not filed within the 30 days the suit will be dismissed.. Since Avista Corp. is obligated to indemnify the defendants under its articles of incorporation, bylaws and separate agreements, the outcome of the lawsuit could, among other things, result in a material adverse effect on Avista Corp.'s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. External Mandates Risk Factors. External mandate risk involves forces outside the Company, which may include significant changes in customer expectations, disruptive technologies that result in obsolescence of our business model and government action that could impact our Company.. Recent U.S. tax legislation may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and affect our credit ratings.. On December 22, 2017, the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\" (TCJA) was signed into law. The legislation includes substantial changes to the taxation of individuals as well as U.S. businesses, multi-national enterprises, and other types of taxpayers. The most significant change as a result of the TCJA is a permanent reduction of the statutory corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent. The legislation is unclear in certain respects and will require implementing regulations by the U.S. Treasury Department, as well as interpretations by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and state tax authorities, and the legislation could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, any of which could lessen or increase certain adverse impacts of the legislation. In addition, the regulatory treatment of certain impacts of this legislation will be subject to the discretion of the FERC and state public utility commissions.. Our analysis and interpretation of this legislation is complete as it relates to amounts recorded as of December 31, 2017 and based on our evaluation, the reduction of the U.S. corporate income tax rate required a write-down of our deferred income tax. 27. Table of Contents. AVISTA CORPORATION. assets and liabilities (including the value of our net operating loss carryforwards) during the fourth quarter of 2017, the period in which the tax legislation was enacted. Because we are predominantly a rate-regulated entity, a large portion of the net effect of the legislation has been recorded as a net regulatory liability on the Consolidated Balance Sheets that will be returned to customers through the ratemaking process in future periods.. Although it is unclear when or how capital markets, credit rating agencies, the FERC or state public utility commissions may respond to this legislation, we do expect that certain financial metrics used by credit rating agencies to evaluate the Company may be negatively impacted as a result of the TCJA. This is primarily due to our expectation that future cash flows from operations will be negatively impacted due to the loss of the bonus depreciation tax deduction and from the timing of the return of excess deferred taxes to customers. There may be other material adverse effects resulting from the legislation that we have not yet identified. Moody's has placed a negative outlook on our credit rating. We cannot predict whether Moody's will take further action in the future, or whether other credit rating agencies will take similar action. Any further action by credit rating agencies may make it more costly for us to issue future debt securities and could increase borrowing costs under our credit facilities.. We believe that interpretations and implementing regulations by the IRS, as well as potential amendments and technical corrections, could result in reducing the negative impacts of certain aspects of this legislation, although there can be no assurance that this will occur or that interpretations, regulations, amendments and technical corrections will not exacerbate some of the negative impacts of the legislation. If additional interpretations, regulations, amendments or technical corrections and/or actions by the FERC and state public utility commissions exacerbate the adverse impacts of the legislation, the legislation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. See \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis  -  Environmental Issues and Contingencies\" and \"Forward-Looking Statements\" for discussion of or reference to additional external mandates which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows."
