[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors. This Report contains forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of Avnet. These statements are generally identified by words like \"believes,\" \"plans,\" \"expects,\" \"anticipates,\" \"should,\" \"will,\" \"may,\" \"estimates\" or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties. Except as required by law, Avnet does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements include those discussed below.. The factors discussed below make the Company's operating results for future periods difficult to predict and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Any of the below factors, or any other factors discussed elsewhere in this Report, may have an adverse effect on the Company's financial results, operations, prospects and liquidity. The Company's operating results have fluctuated in the past and likely will continue to do so. If the Company's operating results fall below its forecasts and the expectations of public market analysts and investors, the trading price of the Company's common stock will likely decrease.. Economic weakness and geopolitical uncertainty could adversely affect the Company's results and prospects.. The Company's financial results, operations and prospects depend significantly on worldwide economic and geopolitical conditions, the demand for its products and services, and the financial condition of its customers and suppliers. Economic weakness and geopolitical uncertainty have in the past resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased sales, margins and earnings. Economic weakness and geopolitical uncertainty may also lead the Company to impair assets, including goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets, take restructuring actions and reduce expenses in response. 7. Table of Contents. to decreased sales or margins. The Company may not be able to adequately adjust its cost structure in a timely fashion, which may adversely impact its profitability. Uncertainty about economic conditions may increase foreign currency volatility in markets in which the Company transacts business, which may negatively impact the Company's results. Economic weakness and geopolitical uncertainty also make it more difficult for the Company to manage inventory levels and/or collect customer receivables, which may result in provisions to create reserves, write-offs, reduced access to liquidity and higher financing costs.. The Company experiences significant competitive pressure, which may negatively impact its results.. The market for the Company's products and services is very competitive and subject to rapid technological advances, new market entrants, non-traditional competitors, changes in industry standards and changes in customer needs and consumption models. Not only does the Company compete with other global distributors, it also competes for customers with regional distributors and some of the Company's own suppliers that maintain direct sales efforts. In addition, as the Company expands its offerings and geographies, the Company may encounter increased competition from current or new competitors. The Company's failure to maintain and enhance its competitive position could adversely affect its business and prospects. Furthermore, the Company's efforts to compete in the marketplace could cause deterioration of gross profit margins and, thus, overall profitability.. The size of the Company's competitors vary across market sectors, as do the resources the Company has allocated to the sectors and geographic areas in which it does business. Therefore, some competitors may have greater resources or a more extensive customer or supplier base than the Company has in one or more of its market sectors and geographic areas, which may result in the Company not being able to effectively compete in certain markets which could impact the Company's profitability and prospects.. Changes in customer needs and consumption models could significantly affect the Company's operating results.. Changes in customer needs and consumption models may cause a decline in the Company's billings, which would have a negative impact on the Company's financial results. While the Company attempts to identify changes in market conditions as soon as possible, the dynamics of these industries make prediction of, and timely reaction to such changes difficult. Future downturns in the semiconductor and embedded solutions industries could adversely affect the Company's operating results and negatively impact the Company's ability to maintain its current profitability levels. In addition, the semiconductor industry has historically experienced periodic fluctuations in product supply and demand, often associated with changes in economic conditions, technology and manufacturing capacity. During fiscal years 2018, 2017, and 2016, sales of semiconductors represented approximately 78%, 78%, and 83% of the Company's consolidated sales, respectively, and the Company's sales closely follow the strength or weakness of the semiconductor industry.. Due to the Company's increased online sales, system interruptions and delays that make its websites and services unavailable or slow to respond may reduce the attractiveness of its products and services to its customers. If the Company is unable to continually improve the efficiency of its systems, it could cause systems interruptions or delays and adversely affect the Company's operating results.. Failure to maintain or develop new relationships with key suppliers could adversely affect the Company's sales.. One of the Company's competitive strengths is the breadth and quality of the suppliers whose products the Company distributes. However, billings of products and services from one of the Company's suppliers, Texas Instruments (\"TI\"), accounted for approximately 11% of the Company's consolidated billings in fiscal 2018. Management expects TI's products and services to continue to account for roughly a similar percentage of the Company's consolidated billings in fiscal 2019. The Company's contracts with its suppliers vary in duration and are generally terminable by either party at will upon notice. To the extent any primary suppliers terminate or significantly reduce their volume of business with the. 8. Table of Contents. Company in the future, because of a product shortage, an unwillingness to do business with the Company, changes in strategy or otherwise, the Company's business and relationships with its customers could be negatively affected because its customers depend on the Company's distribution of technology hardware and software from the industry's leading suppliers. In addition, suppliers' strategy shifts or performance issues may negatively affect the Company's financial results. The competitive landscape has also experienced a consolidation among suppliers, which could negatively impact the Company's profitability and customer base. Further, to the extent that any of the Company's key suppliers modify the terms of their contracts including, without limitation, the terms regarding price protection, rights of return, rebates or other terms that protect or enhance the Company's gross margins, it could negatively affect the Company's results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.. The Company's non-U.S. locations represent a significant portion of its sales and, consequently, the Company is exposed to risks associated with operating internationally that could adversely affect the Company's operating results.. During fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016 approximately 76%, 72% and 73%, respectively, of the Company's sales came from its operations outside the United States. As a result of the Company's international operations, in particular those in emerging and developing economies, the Company's operations are subject to a variety of risks that are specific to international operations, including, but not limited to, the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpotential restrictions on the Company's ability to repatriate funds from its foreign subsidiaries;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tforeign currency and interest rate fluctuations and the impact on the Company's results of operations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcompliance with foreign and domestic import and export regulations, data privacy regulations, business licensing requirements, environmental regulations and anti-corruption laws, the failure of which could result in severe penalties including monetary fines, criminal proceedings and suspension of import or export privileges;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadoption or expansion of trade restrictions, including new and higher duties, tariffs, surcharges, or other import/export controls, unilaterally or bilaterally;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcomplex and changing tax laws and regulations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tregulatory requirements and prohibitions that differ between jurisdictions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\teconomic and political instability (including the uncertainty caused by the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union), terrorism and potential military conflicts or civilian unrest;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfluctuations in freight costs, limitations on shipping and receiving capacity, and other disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnatural disasters and health concerns;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdiffering environmental regulations and employment practices and labor issues; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe risk of non-compliance with local laws.. In addition to the cost of compliance, the potential criminal penalties for violations of import or export regulations and anti-corruption laws by the Company or its third-party agents create heightened risks for the Company's international operations. In the event that a governing regulatory body determines that the Company has violated applicable import or export regulations or anti-corruption laws, the Company could be fined significant sums, incur sizable legal defense costs and/or its import or export capabilities could be restricted, which could have a material and adverse effect on the Company's business. Additionally, allegations that the Company has violated a governmental regulation may negatively impact the Company's reputation, which may result in customers or suppliers being unwilling to do business with the Company. While. 9. Table of Contents. the Company has adopted measures and controls designed to ensure compliance with these laws, the Company cannot be assured that such measures will be adequate or that its business will not be materially and adversely impacted in the event of an alleged violation.. The Company transacts sales, pays expenses, owns assets and incurs liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. Because the Company's consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. Dollars, the Company must translate sales, income and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into U.S. Dollars at exchange rates in effect during each reporting period. Therefore, increases or decreases in the exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and other currencies affect the Company's reported amounts of sales, operating income, assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. In addition, unexpected and dramatic changes in foreign currency exchange rates may negatively affect the Company's earnings from those markets. While the Company may use derivative financial instruments to further reduce its net exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, there can be no assurance that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates will not materially affect the Company's financial results. Further, foreign currency instability and disruptions in the credit and capital markets may increase credit risks for some of the Company's customers and may impair its customers' ability to repay existing obligations.. Recently, the U.S. government imposed new or higher tariffs on certain products imported into the U.S., which have increased the costs of procuring certain products the Company purchases from its suppliers. The higher tariffs, along with any additional tariffs or trade restrictions that may be implemented by the U.S. or by other countries on U.S. goods in the future, may  result in further increased costs and other related expenses. While the Company intends to reflect such increased costs in its selling prices, such price increases may impact the Company's sales and customer demand for certain products. In addition, increased operational expenses incurred in minimizing the number of products subject to the tariffs could adversely affect the operating profits for certain of its business units. Neither such U.S. tariffs nor any retaliatory tariffs imposed by other countries on U.S. goods have yet had a significant impact, but there can be no assurance that future actions or escalations that affect trade relations will not occur or will not materially affect the Company's sales and results of operations. To the extent that Company sales or profitability are negatively affected by any such tariffs or other trade actions, the Company's business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.. If the Company's internal information systems fail to function properly, or if the Company is unsuccessful in the implementation, integration or upgrade of information systems, its business operations could suffer.. The Company is dependent on its information systems to facilitate the day-to-day operations of the business and to produce timely, accurate and reliable information on financial and operational results. Currently, the Company's global operations are tracked with multiple information systems, some of which are subject to ongoing IT projects designed to streamline or optimize the Company's global information systems. These IT projects are extremely complex, in part, because of a wide range of processes, the multiple legacy systems used and the Company's business operations. There is no guarantee that the Company will be successful at all times in these efforts or that there will not be implementation or integration difficulties that will adversely affect the Company's ability to complete business transactions and ensure accurate recording and reporting of financial data. In addition, the Company may be unable to achieve the expected efficiencies and cost savings as a result of the IT projects, thus negatively impacting the Company's financial results. A failure of any of these information systems in a way described above or material difficulties in upgrading these information systems could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, internal controls and reporting obligations under federal securities laws.. The Company's acquisition strategy may not produce the expected benefits, which may adversely affect the Company's results of operations.. Avnet has made, and expects to continue to make, strategic acquisitions or investments in companies around the world to further its strategic objectives and support key business initiatives. Acquisitions and investments involve risks. 10. Table of Contents. and uncertainties, some of which may differ from those associated with Avnet's historical operations. The risks relating to such acquisitions and investments include, but are not limited to, risks relating to expanding into emerging markets and business areas, adding additional product lines and services, impacting existing customer and supplier relationships, incurring costs or liabilities associated with the companies acquired, incurring potential impairment charges on acquired goodwill and other intangible assets and diverting management's attention from existing business operations. As a result, the Company's profitability may be negatively impacted. In addition, the Company may not be successful in integrating the acquired businesses or the integration may be more difficult, costly or time-consuming than anticipated. Further, any litigation relating to a potential acquisition will result in an increase in the expenses associated with the acquisition or cause a delay in completing the acquisition, thereby impacting the Company's profitability. The Company may experience disruptions that could, depending on the size of the acquisition, have an adverse effect on its business, especially where an acquisition target may have pre-existing compliance issues or pre-existing deficiencies or material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting. Furthermore, the Company may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from its acquisitions, which could adversely affect the Company's financial performance.. Major disruptions to the Company's logistics capability could have an adverse impact on the Company's operations.. The Company's global logistics services are operated through specialized, centralized or outsourced distribution centers around the globe. The Company also depends almost entirely on third-party transportation service providers for the delivery of products to its customers. A major interruption or disruption in service at one or more of its distribution centers for any reason (such as information technology upgrades and operating issues, warehouse modernization and relocation efforts, natural disasters, pandemics, or significant disruptions of services from the Company's third-party transportation providers) could cause cancellations or delays in a significant number of shipments to customers and, as a result, could have an adverse impact on the Company's business partners, and on the Company's business, operations and financial performance.. If the Company sustains cyber-attacks or other privacy or data security incidents that result in security breaches, it could suffer a loss of sales and increased costs, exposure to significant liability, reputational harm and other negative consequences.. The Company's information technology may be subject to cyber-attacks, security breaches or computer hacking. Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate the Company's security controls and misappropriate or compromise sensitive personal, proprietary or confidential information, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. They also may be able to develop and deploy malicious software programs that attack the Company's systems or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities. The Company's systems and the data stored on those systems may also be vulnerable to security incidents or security attacks, acts of vandalism or theft, coordinated attacks by activist entities, misplaced or lost data, human errors, or other similar events that could negatively affect the Company's systems and its data, as well as the data of the Company's business partners. Further, third parties, such as hosted solution providers, that provide services to the Company, could also be a source of security risk in the event of a failure of their own security systems and infrastructure.. The costs to eliminate or address the foregoing security threats and vulnerabilities before or after a cyber-incident could be significant. The Company's remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays or cessation of service, and loss of existing or potential suppliers or customers. In addition, breaches of the Company's security measures and the unauthorized dissemination of sensitive personal, proprietary or confidential information about the Company, its business partners or other third parties could expose the Company to significant potential liability and reputational harm. As threats related to cyber-attacks develop and grow, the Company may also find it necessary to make further investments to protect its data and infrastructure, which may impact the Company's profitability. Although the Company has insurance coverage for protecting against cyber-attacks, it may not be sufficient to cover all possible claims,. 11. Table of Contents. and the Company may suffer losses that could have a material adverse effect on its business. As a global enterprise, the Company could also be negatively impacted by existing and proposed laws and regulations, as well as government policies and practices related to cybersecurity, data privacy, data localization and data protection.. Declines in the value of the Company's inventory or unexpected order cancellations by the Company's customers could adversely affect its business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. The electronic components and integrated products industries are subject to rapid technological change, new and enhanced products, changes in customer needs and changes in industry standards and regulatory requirements, which can contribute to a decline in value or obsolescence of inventory. Regardless of the general economic environment, it is possible that prices will decline due to a decrease in demand or an oversupply of products and, as a result of the price declines, there may be greater risk of declines in inventory value. Although it is the policy of many of the Company's suppliers to offer certain protections from the loss in value of inventory (such as price protection and limited rights of return), the Company cannot be assured that such policies will fully compensate for the loss in value, or that the suppliers will choose to, or be able to, honor such agreements, some of which are not documented and, therefore, subject to the discretion of the supplier. In addition, the majority of the Company's sales are made pursuant to individual purchase orders, rather than through long-term sales contracts. Where there is a contract, such contract is generally terminable at will upon notice. The Company cannot be assured that unforeseen new product developments, declines in the value of the Company's inventory or unforeseen order cancellations by its customers will not adversely affect the Company's business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.. Substantial defaults by the Company's customers or suppliers on its accounts receivable or the loss of significant customers could have a significant negative impact on the Company's business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.. A significant portion of the Company's working capital consists of accounts receivable. If entities responsible for a significant amount of accounts receivable were to cease doing business, direct their business elsewhere, become insolvent or unable to pay the amount they owe the Company, or were to become unwilling or unable to make such payments in a timely manner, the Company's business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity could be adversely affected. An economic or industry downturn could adversely affect the collectability of these accounts receivable, which could result in longer payment cycles, increased collection costs and defaults in excess of management's expectations. A significant deterioration in the Company's ability to collect on accounts receivable in the United States could also impact the cost or availability of financing under its accounts receivable securitization program.. The Company may not have adequate or cost-effective liquidity or capital resources which could adversely affect the Company's operations.. The Company's ability to satisfy its cash needs and implement its capital allocation strategy depends on its ability to generate cash from operations and to access the financial markets, both of which are subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond the Company's control.. The Company may need to satisfy its cash needs through external financing. However, external financing may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. As of June 30, 2018, Avnet had total debt outstanding of approximately $1.65 billion under various notes, secured borrowings and committed and uncommitted lines of credit with financial institutions. The Company needs cash to make interest payments on, and to repay, this indebtedness and for general corporate purposes, such as funding its ongoing working capital and capital expenditure needs. Under the terms of any external financing, the Company may incur higher than expected financing expenses and become subject to additional restrictions and covenants. Any material increase in the Company's financing costs could have an adverse effect on its profitability.. 12. Table of Contents. Under certain of its credit facilities, the Company is required to maintain certain specified financial ratios and pass certain financial tests. If the Company fails to meet these financial ratios and/or pass these tests, it may be unable to continue to utilize these facilities. If the Company is unable to utilize these facilities, it may not have sufficient cash available to make interest payments, to repay indebtedness or for general corporate needs. General economic or business conditions, domestic and foreign, may be less favorable than management expects and could adversely impact the Company's sales or its ability to collect receivables from its customers, which may impact access to the Company's accounts receivable securitization program.. In order to be successful, the Company must attract, retain, train, motivate and develop key employees, and failure to do so could adversely impact the Company's results and strategic initiatives.. Identifying, developing internally or hiring externally, training and retaining qualified employees are critical to the Company's future, and competition for experienced employees in the Company's industry can be intense. Changing demographics and labor work force trends may result in a loss of knowledge and skills as experienced workers leave the Company. In addition, as global opportunities and industry demand shifts, and as the Company expands its offerings, realignment, training and hiring of skilled personnel may not be sufficiently rapid. From time to time the Company has effected restructurings, which eliminate a number of positions. Even if such personnel are not directly affected by the restructuring effort, such terminations can have a negative impact on morale and the Company's ability to attract and hire new qualified personnel in the future. If the Company loses existing qualified personnel or is unable to hire new qualified personnel, as needed, the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed.. The agreements governing some of the Company's financings contain various covenants and restrictions that limit management's discretion in operating the business and could prevent management from engaging in some activities that may be beneficial to the Company's business.. The agreements governing the Company's financing, including its credit facility, accounts receivable securitization program and the indentures governing the Company's outstanding notes, contain various covenants and restrictions that, in certain circumstances, limit the Company's ability, and the ability of certain subsidiaries, to:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgrant liens on assets;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake restricted payments (including, under certain circumstances, paying dividends on common stock or redeeming or repurchasing common stock);.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake certain investments;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmerge, consolidate or transfer all or substantially all of the Company's assets;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincur additional debt; or.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tengage in certain transactions with affiliates.. As a result of these covenants and restrictions, the Company may be limited in the future in how it conducts its business and may be unable to raise additional debt, repurchase common stock, pay a dividend, compete effectively or make further investments.. The Company may become involved in legal proceedings that could cause it to incur substantial costs, divert management's efforts or require it to pay substantial damages or licensing fees.. From time to time, the Company may become involved in legal proceedings, including government investigations, that arise out of the ordinary conduct of the Company's business, including matters involving intellectual property rights, commercial matters, merger-related matters and other actions. Legal proceedings could result in substantial costs and. 13. Table of Contents. diversion of management's efforts and other resources and could have an adverse effect on the Company's operations. Further, the Company may be obligated to indemnify and defend its customers if the products or services the Company sells are alleged to infringe any third party's intellectual property rights. While the Company may be able to seek indemnification from its suppliers for itself and its customers against such claims, there is no assurance that it will be successful in realizing such indemnification or that the Company will be fully protected against such claims. In addition, the Company is exposed to potential liability for technology that it develops for which it has no indemnification protections. If an infringement claim against the Company is successful, the Company may be required to pay damages or seek royalty or license arrangements, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. The Company may have to stop selling certain products or services, which could affect its ability to compete effectively.. Changes in tax rules and regulations, changes in interpretation of tax rules and regulations, changes in business performance or unfavorable assessments from tax audits could adversely affect the Company's effective tax rates, deferred taxes, financial condition and results of operations.. As a multinational corporation, the Company is subject to the tax laws and regulations of the United States and many foreign jurisdictions. From time to time, regulations may be enacted that could adversely affect the Company's tax positions. There can be no assurance that the Company's cash flow, and in some cases the effective tax rate, will not be adversely affected by these potential changes in regulations or by changes in the interpretation of existing tax law and regulations.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. federal government enacted tax legislation (the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\" or the \"Act\") which includes provisions to lower the corporate income tax rate, impose new taxes on certain foreign earnings, limit deductibility of certain U.S. costs and levy a one-time deemed repatriation tax on accumulated offshore earnings, among others. The Act is subject to interpretation and implementation guidance by both federal and state tax authorities, as well as amendments and technical corrections. Any or all of these could impact the Company unfavorably.. Many countries are adopting provisions to align their international tax rules with the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Project, led by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, to standardize and modernize global corporate tax policy. These provisions, individually or as a whole, may negatively impact taxation of international business.. The tax laws and regulations of the various countries where the Company has operations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. Although the Company believes that its historical tax positions are sound and consistent with applicable laws, regulations and existing precedent, there can be no assurance that these tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that the Company would be successful in defending against any such challenge.. The Company's future income tax expense could also be favorably or adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes to its operating structure.. If the Company fails to maintain effective internal controls, it may not be able to report its financial results accurately or timely, or prevent or detect fraud, which could have an adverse effect on the Company's business or the market price of the Company's securities.. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for the Company to provide reliable financial reports and to effectively prevent or detect fraud. If the Company cannot provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent or detect fraud, its brand and operating results could be harmed. Internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because such controls are inherently limited; such limitations include the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls cannot provide absolute assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, if not properly maintained and updated, internal controls over financial reporting may become inadequate. If the Company fails. 14. Table of Contents. to maintain the adequacy of its internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved internal controls, or if the Company experiences difficulties in their implementation, the Company's business and operating results could be harmed. Additionally, the Company may be subject to sanctions or investigations by regulatory authorities, and the Company could fail to meet its reporting obligations, all of which could have an adverse effect on its business or the market price of the Company's securities.. Failure to comply with the requirements of environmental regulations could adversely affect the Company's business.. The Company is subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations addressing environmental and other impacts from product disposal, use of hazardous materials in products, recycling of products at the end of their useful life and other related matters. While the Company strives to ensure it is in full compliance with all applicable regulations, certain of these regulations impose liability without fault. Additionally, the Company may be held responsible for the prior activities of an entity it acquired. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in substantial costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, as well as third-party claims for property damage or personal injury. Further, environmental laws may become more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations."                                                                                                                                                                                           
