[1] "Item 1A. \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tRisk Factors. From time to time, information provided by us, including, but not limited to, statements in this report, or other statements made by us or on our behalf, may contain “forward-looking” information within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control, which may cause actual results, performance, or achievements to differ materially from those anticipated.. Our businesses routinely encounter and address risks, some of which will cause our future results to be different – sometimes materially different – than we presently anticipate. Discussion about the important operational risks that our businesses encounter can also be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. We wish to caution the reader that the following important risk factors and those factors described elsewhere in this report or other documents that we file or furnish to the SEC could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated in forward-looking statements contained in this document and elsewhere. Below, we have described our current view of certain important strategic risks. These risks are not presented in order of importance or probability of occurrence. Our reactions to material future developments as well as our competitors’ reactions to those developments will affect our future results.. - 12 -. Table of Contents. We operate in a cyclical business, which could result in significant fluctuations in demand for our products. Cyclical changes in our customers’ businesses have, in the past, resulted in, and may in the future result in, significant fluctuations in demand for our products, selling prices, and our profitability. Most of our customers operate in cyclical industries. Their requirements for electronic components and interconnect, sensing and control devices fluctuate significantly as a result of changes in general economic conditions, technological changes, customer demand, and other factors. During periods of increasing demand, our customers typically seek to increase their inventory of our products to avoid production bottlenecks. When demand for their products peaks and begins to decline, as has happened in the past, they tend to reduce or cancel orders for our products while they use up accumulated inventory. Business cycles vary somewhat in different geographical regions and customer industries. Significant fluctuations in sales of our products affect our unit manufacturing costs and affect our profitability by making it more difficult for us to predict our production, raw materials, and shipping needs. Changes in demand mix, needed technologies, and end-use markets may adversely affect our ability to match our products, inventory, and capacity to meet customer demand and could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We are also vulnerable to general economic events or trends beyond our control, and our sales and profits may suffer in periods of weak demand.. We must consistently reduce costs to remain competitive and to address downward price trends. Our industry is intensely competitive, and prices for existing products tend to decrease over their life cycle. To remain competitive, we must achieve continuous cost reductions through process and material improvements. We must also be in a position to minimize our customers’ inventory financing costs and to meet their other goals for supply chain management. In addition, as a result of our efforts to streamline manufacturing and logistics operations and to enhance operations in lower operating cost regions we have incurred restructuring costs in the past and are likely to incur restructuring costs in the future in response to competitive pressures. If we are unsuccessful in implementing restructuring or other cost reduction plans, we may experience disruptions in our operations and incur higher ongoing costs, which may adversely affect our sales levels, financial condition, and operating results.. We attempt to improve profitability by operating in countries in which operating costs are lower; but the shift of operations to these regions may entail considerable expense and risk. Our strategy is aimed at achieving significant production cost savings through the transfer to and expansion of manufacturing operations in countries with lower operating costs, such as China, Czechia, El Salvador, India, Malaysia, Mexico, Romania, and Vietnam. During this process, we may experience under-utilization of certain factories in higher-cost regions and capacity constraints in plants and factories located in lower-cost regions. This under-utilization may result initially in production inefficiencies and higher overall costs. These costs also include those associated with compensation in connection with work force reductions and plant closings in the higher-cost regions, and start-up expenses, equipment relocation costs, manufacturing and construction delays, and increased depreciation costs in connection with the initiation or expansion of production in lower-cost regions. In addition, as we implement transfers of certain of our operations, we may experience labor strikes or other types of disruption due to lay-offs or termination of our employees in higher-cost countries.. Our global operations subject us to many different and complex laws and rules. Due to our global operations, we are subject to many laws governing international relations (including but not limited to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.S. Export Administration Act the EU General Data Protection Regulation, and the U.K. Modern Anti-Slavery Act); which prohibit improper payments to government officials and restrict where and how we can do business, what information or products we can supply to certain countries, what personal information we can transfer, and what information we can provide to a non-U.S. government. Although we have procedures and policies in place that should mitigate the risk of violations of these laws, there is no guarantee that they will be sufficiently effective. If, and when we acquire new businesses we may not be able to ensure that the pre-existing controls and procedures meant to prevent violations of the rules and laws were effective, and we may not be able to implement effective controls and procedures to prevent violations quickly enough when integrating newly acquired businesses. Acquisitions of new businesses in new non-U.S. jurisdictions may also subject us to new regulations and laws, and we may face difficulties ensuring compliance with these new requirements.. - 13 -. Table of Contents. We encounter competition in substantially all areas of our business. We compete primarily on the basis of technology, product quality, price, sales terms, customer service, and delivery time. Competitors include large, diversified companies, some of which have substantial assets and financial resources, as well as medium to small companies. There can be no assurance that additional competitors will not enter into our existing markets, nor can there be any assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or new competition.. We may not have adequate facilities to satisfy future increases in demand for our products. Our business is cyclical and in periods of a rising economy, we may experience intense demand for our products. During such periods, we may have difficulty expanding our manufacturing to satisfy demand. Factors that could limit such expansion include delays in procurement of manufacturing equipment, shortages of skilled personnel, physical constraints on expansion of our facilities, and shortages from our suppliers. If we are unable to meet our customers' requirements and our competitors sufficiently expand production, we could lose customers and/or market share. These losses could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Also, capacity that we add during upturns in the business cycle may result in excess capacity during periods when demand for our products recedes, resulting in inefficient use of capital which could also adversely affect us.. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, especially our design and technical personnel, we may not be able to execute our business strategy effectively.. Our future success depends on our ability to retain, attract and motivate qualified personnel, including our management, sales and marketing, finance, and especially our design and technical personnel. As the source of our technological and product innovations, our design and technical personnel represent a significant asset. Any inability to retain, attract or motivate such personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We must continue to develop new products and technology to remain competitive. Many of the fundamental technologies used in the electronics industry have been available for a long time. The market is subject to rapid changes in product designs and technological advances allowing for better performance and/or lower cost. New applications are frequently found for existing technologies, and new technologies occasionally replace existing technologies for some applications or open up new business opportunities in other areas of application. Successful innovation is critical for maintaining profitability in the face of potential erosion of selling prices for existing products. To address downward selling price pressure for our products and to meet market requirements, we must continue to develop innovative products and production techniques. Sustaining and improving our profitability depends a great deal on our ability to develop new products quickly and successfully meet changing customer specifications. Non-customized commodity products are especially vulnerable to price pressure, but customized products have also experienced selling price pressure over time. We have traditionally addressed downward pricing trends in part by offering products with new technologies or applications that offer our customers advantages over older products. We also seek to maintain profitability by developing products to our customers’ specifications that are not readily available from competitors. Developing and marketing these products requires start-up costs that may not be recouped if those new products or production techniques are not successful. There are numerous risks inherent in this process, including the risks that we will be unable to anticipate the direction of technological change or that we will be unable to develop and market new products and applications in a timely fashion to satisfy customer demands. If this occurs, we could lose customers and experience adverse effects on our results of operations.. In addition to our own research and development initiatives, we may invest in technology start-up enterprises, in which we may acquire a controlling or non-controlling interest but whose technology would be available to be commercialized by us. There are numerous risks in investments of this nature, including the limited operating history of such start-up entities, their need for capital, their limited or absence of production experience, as well as the risk that their technologies may prove ineffective or fail to gain acceptance in the marketplace. There can be no assurance that our current and future investments in start-up enterprises will prove successful.. Our operating results are sensitive to raw material and resale product availability, quality, and cost. Many of our products require the use of raw materials that are available from only a limited number of regions around the world, are available from only a limited number of suppliers, or may be subject to significant fluctuations in market prices. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if we have difficulty obtaining these raw materials, our key suppliers experience financial difficulties, the quality of available raw materials deteriorates, or there are significant price increases for these raw materials. For example, the prices for tantalum, platinum, silver, nickel, gold, copper, palladium, and other raw materials that we use in the manufacture of our products are subject to fluctuation and have experienced significant variability in the past. Our inability to recover increased costs through increased sales prices could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. For periods in which the prices for these raw materials rise, we may be unable to pass on the increased cost to our customers, which would result in decreased sales margins for the products in which they are used. For periods in which sales margins are declining, we may be required, as has occurred in the past, to write down our inventory carrying cost of these raw materials and products. Depending on the extent of the difference between market price and our carrying cost, the write-down could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations.. - 14 -. Table of Contents. We resell products manufactured by other component and interconnect product manufacturers. Should these manufacturers experience difficulties supplying the products that we resell, or such suppliers use other channels to market their products, we could experience lower sales, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our sales to distribution sales channel customers may fluctuate. Selling products to our customers in the electronic component distribution sales channel has associated risks, including, without limitation, that sales can be negatively impacted on a short-term basis because of changes in distributor inventory levels; these changes may be unrelated to the purchasing trends by the end customer. In the past, we have gone through cycles of inventory correction as distributors increase or decrease their supply chain inventories based upon their anticipated market needs and economic conditions.. Our backlog is subject to customer cancellation. We generally do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers. Uncertain economic and geopolitical conditions have resulted in, and may continue to result in, some of our customers delaying the delivery of products that we manufacture or source for them and placing purchase orders for lower volumes of products than previously anticipated. Many of the orders that comprise our backlog may be canceled by our customers without penalty. Our customers may on occasion, order products from multiple sources to ensure timely delivery when delivery lead times are particularly long and product delivery is a concern. They may cancel orders when business is weak and inventories are excessive, a situation that we have experienced during periods of economic slowdown. Therefore, we cannot be certain that the amount of our backlog does not exceed the level of sales that will ultimately be made. Our results of operations could be adversely impacted if customers cancel a material portion of orders in our backlog.. Our growth strategy includes growth through acquisitions, which may involve significant risks. From time to time, we make strategic acquisitions of other companies or businesses as we believe such acquisitions can help to position us to take advantage of growth opportunities. Such acquisitions could introduce significant risks and uncertainties, including risks related to integrating the acquired businesses and achieving benefits from the acquisitions. More particularly, risks and uncertainties of an acquisition strategy could include: (1) difficulties in integrating newly-acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and effective manner; (2) challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings, and other benefits from acquisitions; (3) risk that markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the technologies acquired do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; (4) potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses; (5) risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our operations; (6) risks of entering new markets in which we have limited experience; (7) risks associated with integrating financial reporting and internal control systems; (8) difficulties in expanding information technology systems and other business processes to accommodate the acquired businesses; (9) future impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets of an acquired business; (10) unanticipated legal and regulatory issues in the jurisdictions of the acquired business; (11) liabilities for activities of the acquired businesses, including environmental, tax, and other known and unknown liabilities; and (12) additional costs related to plant closures, employee terminations, etc. could be incurred to create operating inefficiencies for AVX and a newly acquired entity.. Changes in our environmental liability and compliance obligations may adversely affect our operations or financial condition. Our manufacturing operations, products, and/or product packaging are subject to environmental laws and regulations governing air emissions; wastewater discharges; the handling, disposal, and remediation of hazardous substances, wastes, and certain chemicals used or generated in our manufacturing process; employee health and safety; labeling or other notifications with respect to the content or other aspects of our processes, products, or packaging; restrictions on the use of certain materials in or on design aspects of our products or product packaging; and responsibility for disposal of products or product packaging. We also operate, or did at one time, at sites that may have potential future environmental issues as a result of activities at such sites during the long history of manufacturing operations of AVX or its corporate predecessor, or prior to the start of operations by AVX. Even though we may have rights of indemnity for such environmental matters at certain sites, regulatory agencies in those jurisdictions may require us to address such issues. We establish reserves for specifically identified potential environmental liabilities when the liabilities are probable and reasonably estimated. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance we will not be obligated to address environmental matters that could have a material adverse impact on our operations or financial condition. In addition, new environmental regulations may be enacted and we cannot presently determine the modifications, if any, in our operations that any such future regulations might require, or the cost of compliance with these regulations. In order to resolve liabilities at various sites, we have entered into various administrative orders and consent decrees, some of which may be, under certain conditions, reopened or subject to renegotiation. See “Environmental Matters” in Item 1 elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information.. - 15 -. Table of Contents. Changes in regulatory compliance obligations may adversely affect our operations. The Dodd-Frank Act, signed into law on July 21, 2010, includes Section 1502, which required the SEC to adopt additional disclosure requirements related to the source of certain “conflict minerals” for issuers for which such “conflict minerals” are necessary to the functionality or production of a product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by that issuer. The SEC issued a final rule on August 22, 2012. The minerals covered by the rules are commonly referred to as “3TG” and include tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold. We use many of these materials in our production processes. The rule requires companies to perform due diligence, disclose, and report whether or not such minerals originate from the DRC and adjoining countries. We have incurred and will continue to incur additional costs to comply with these disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals and metals used in our products. Global supply chains are complicated with multiple layers and suppliers between the mine and the final product.. Historically, and prior to our participation in “Solutions for Hope,” we had a policy of not using tantalum sourced from the DRC or any other area in which insurgents or similar groups benefit from the sale of minerals. We continue to conduct extensive supply chain investigations to reduce risk and support supply chain sustainability in the region using the OECD guiding principles. AVX was the first in its industry to validate a “closed tantalum pipe” process, assuring all tantalum products contain only tantalum from smelters that have been independently verified under the Conflict Free Smelter program in accordance with the principles of the Dodd-Frank legislation and the current OECD guidelines.. Since December 2011, AVX has only sourced tantalum powder and wire used in its tantalum capacitors from smelters that are compliant with the RBC/GeSI conflict-free smelter program. In 2012, AVX began using Validated Conflict-Free Tantalum, which comes from verified sources in the DRC and surrounding countries. During 2016 and in the spirit of continuous improvement envisioned and enshrined by the OECD Due Diligence guidance, AVX continues to improve supply chain sustainability and reduce compliance cost by field-testing a new alternate traceability platform (“BSP”) and proof of concept of a geological science technique for mineral matching (Geological Passporting) in the DRC region. The result of the BSP pilot demonstrated that a new compliance model is possible using technology for the reporting, analysis, chain of custody and Geo Passporting for validation. Please refer to the Solutions for Hope website for more information.. Our continued efforts affirm our commitment to supply products with conflict-free minerals to our customers and to comply fully with the OECD guidelines and SEC regulations. The implementation of Rule 1502 has not had a material adverse effect on our ability to source raw materials or manufacture products containing the “3TG” metals. We filed our most recent Form SD with the SEC on May 25, 2017.. We use significant amounts of electrical energy and processed ores in our production processes. Although its status is uncertain, the Kyoto Protocol is an international agreement that purports to set binding targets for signatory industrialized countries for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Further, a number of governments or governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating legislative and regulatory changes in response to the potential impacts of climate change that would limit and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Any significant, sustained increase in energy costs could result in increases in our capital expenditures, operating expenses, and costs of important raw materials resulting in an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. The potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and will be particular to the geographic circumstances. These effects may adversely influence the cost, production, and financial performance of our operations.. The European Union has adopted Regulation 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data (General Data Protection Regulation) (“GDPR”), which will become effective on May 25, 2018. Other nations are similarly enacting new or updated privacy laws and regulations. It is still unclear how these privacy laws will impact our operations, but we expect that substantial resources will be required to conform our operations to comply with these laws.. Brexit adds additional uncertainty in one of our key markets. On June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom (U.K.) held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the E.U., commonly referred to as “Brexit” and the U.K. Prime Minister has delivered a notice of withdrawal to the E.U. As a result, the British government is negotiating the terms of the U.K.’s future relationship with the E.U.  Although it is unknown what those terms will be, it is possible that there will be greater restrictions on imports and exports between the U.K. and E.U. countries and increased regulatory complexities. These changes may adversely affect our operations and financial results.. - 16 -. Table of Contents. Our results may be negatively affected by foreign currency exchange rates. We conduct business in several international currencies through our worldwide operations and, as a result, are subject to foreign exchange exposure due to changes in exchange rates of the various currencies. Volatility in exchange rates can affect our sales, gross margins, and stockholders’ equity both positively and negatively. In order to minimize the effects of movements in currency exchange rates, we enter into forward exchange contracts to hedge external and intercompany foreign currency transactions. In addition, we attempt to minimize currency exposure risk by producing our products in the same country or region in which the products are sold, thereby generating revenues and incurring expenses in the same currency. There can be no assurance that our approach will be successful, especially in the event of a significant and sudden decline in the value of any of the international currencies of our worldwide operations. We do not engage in purchasing forward exchange contracts for speculative purposes.. A significant portion of our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments are held by our non-U.S. subsidiaries. We generate a significant amount of cash and profits from our non-U.S. subsidiaries. Approximately 71% of our cash and investment securities are held by our foreign subsidiaries.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”), enacted on December 22, 2017, transitions the U.S. from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system. Under previous law, companies could indefinitely defer U.S. income taxation on unremitted foreign earnings. The TCJA imposes a one-time transition tax on deferred foreign earnings of 15.5% for liquid assets and 8% for illiquid assets, payable in defined increments over eight years. As a result of this requirement, we expect to pay approximately $75.7 million over an eight year period, net of estimated applicable foreign tax credits.. As a result, previously deferred foreign earnings may now be repatriated to the United States without additional U.S. federal taxation. However, any such repatriation could incur withholding and other foreign taxes in the source and intervening foreign jurisdiction.. Our operating results may be adversely affected by non-U.S. operations. We have significant international operations and our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected by economic, political, health, regulatory, and other circumstances existing in foreign countries in which we operate. International manufacturing and sales are subject to inherent risks, including production disruption by employee union or works council actions, changes in local economic or political conditions, the imposition of currency exchange restrictions, unexpected changes in regulatory environments, potentially adverse tax law changes, changes in trade, import or export laws and regulations, and the exchange rate risk discussed above. Further, we have operations, suppliers, and customers in countries that are in the Pacific Basin which may be more susceptible to certain natural disasters, including earthquakes, tsunamis, and typhoons. Although we have operations around the world, a significant natural event could disrupt supply or production or significantly affect the market for some or all of our products. There can be no assurance that these factors will not have an adverse impact on our production capabilities or otherwise adversely affect our business and operating results.. In addition to specific country risks, our operations and sales are dependent on an integrated global operation. As a result, disruptions resulting from inter-governmental trade disputes, imposition of tariffs, imposition of trade sanctions, and direct conflict in locations such as the Korean peninsula could adversely affect our operations, growth, or profitability.. Our products are subject to stringent specifications and operating tolerances. All of our products are built to specifications and tested for adherence to such specifications before shipment to customers. We warrant that our products will meet such specifications. In the past, we have not incurred significant warranty claims. However, we have seen an increasing trend in the marketplace for claims related to end market product application failures or end-user recall or damage claims related to product defects, which could result in future claims that have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. Our ability to maintain our competitiveness depends, in part, on our maintaining the proprietorship of our technology. We will protect our proprietary rights as long as our proprietary technologies are maintained as trade secrets or are covered by recognized patents. We properly apply for, and will continue to apply for, patents covering our technologies. However, each patent application may not result in a successful patent issuance and competitors may develop similar, alternative, or new technologies, which reduce the positive impact of our patents. In addition, competitors may challenge our patents, as has happened in the past, or seek to invalidate them, or operate in certain countries who do not recognize our legal patent rights. The protection of intellectual property involves multiple legal and factual issues, which makes the process difficult and potentially expensive.. - 17 -. Table of Contents. We will vigorously defend our patent and intellectual property rights and may be involved in future litigation alleging our infringement of such rights from others. We may seek various remedies to resolve these claims, including the offering or purchasing of licenses in an acceptable manner. An unfavorable outcome regarding these rights could have an adverse effect on our business and our results of operations.. Fluctuations in the market values of our investment portfolio could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Although we have not recognized any material losses related to our cash equivalents, short-term investments, or long-term investments, future declines in the market values of such investments could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Given the global nature of our business, we have investments both domestically and internationally. Additionally, a portion of our overall investment portfolio includes investment securities in the financial sector. If the issuers of such investments default on their obligations or their credit ratings are negatively impacted by liquidity, credit deterioration or losses, poor financial results, or other factors, the value of our cash equivalents, short-term investments, and long-term investments could decline and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. In addition, our ability to find investments that are both safe and liquid and that provide a reasonable return may be impaired. This could result in lower interest income and/or higher other-than-temporary impairments.. Credit risk on our accounts receivable could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Our outstanding trade receivables are not covered by collateral or credit insurance. While we have procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on our trade receivables, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit our credit risk and avoid losses, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.. Counterparty non-performance to derivative transactions could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We evaluate the credit quality of potential counterparties to derivative transactions and only enter into agreements with those deemed to have minimal credit risk at the time the agreements are executed. Our foreign exchange hedge portfolio is diversified across several credit line banks and we carefully monitor the amount of exposure we have with any given bank. We also periodically monitor changes to counterparty credit quality as well as our concentration of credit exposure to individual counterparties. In some cases, we have master netting agreements that help reduce the risk of counterparty exposures. We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Nevertheless, a credit crisis could have an impact on our hedging contracts if our counterparties are forced to file for bankruptcy or are otherwise unable to perform their obligations. If we are required to terminate hedging contracts prior to their scheduled settlement dates, we may be required to recognize losses that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.. Returns on pension and retirement plan assets and interest rate changes could affect our operating results. The funding position of our defined benefit pension plans is influenced by the performance of the financial markets, and the discount rate used to calculate our pension obligations for funding and expense purposes. In the past, declines in the financial markets have negatively affected the value of the assets in our defined benefit pension plans. In addition, lower discount rates for actuarial purposes may result in increased pension contributions and expense.. Funding obligations are generally determined under government regulations and measured periodically based on the value of the assets and liabilities determined on a specific date. If the financial markets do not provide the expected long-term returns, we could be required to make larger contributions. The financial markets can be, and in the recent past have been, very volatile, and therefore our estimate of future contribution requirements can change at any time. In a low interest rate environment, the likelihood of higher contributions in the future increases.. We may not generate sufficient future taxable income, which may require additional valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets. As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, we are required to estimate our tax assets and liabilities in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves management estimating the actual current tax liabilities together with assessing temporary differences resulting from different treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities that are included within our consolidated balance sheet.. We assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recoverable as a result of future taxable income and, to the extent we believe that recovery is not more likely than not, we establish a valuation allowance.. - 18 -. Table of Contents. We have recorded valuation allowances due to uncertainties related to our ability to realize some of our deferred tax assets, primarily consisting of certain net operating losses carried forward before they expire. The valuation allowances are based on our estimates of future taxable income over the periods that our deferred tax assets will be recoverable.. We also record provisions for certain foreign and domestic federal and state tax contingencies based on the likelihood of obligation, when needed. In the normal course of business, we are subject to challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. Further, during the ordinary course of business, other changing facts and circumstances may influence our ability to utilize tax benefits as well as the estimated taxes to be paid in future periods. In the event that actual results differ from our estimates, we may need to adjust tax accounts and related payments, which could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations.. If we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain jurisdictions, or if there is a significant change in the actual tax rates or the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required to increase our valuation allowances resulting in an increase in our effective tax rate and have an adverse impact on future operating results.. We are increasingly dependent on information technology, and if we are unable to protect against service interruptions, data corruption, cyber-based attacks, or network security breaches our operations could be disrupted and we could incur significant costs and reputational harm as a result. We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit, and store electronic and financial information; to manage a variety of business processes and activities; and to comply with regulatory, legal, and tax requirements. We also depend on our information technology infrastructure for digital marketing and sales activities and for electronic communications among our locations, personnel, customers, and suppliers around the world. Many of the information technology systems used by us globally have been in place for many years and not all hardware and software is currently supported by vendors. These information technology systems are susceptible to damage, disruptions, or shutdowns due to failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, telecommunication failures, user errors, or catastrophic events. If our information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption, or shutdown and our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, our product sales, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially affected, and we could experience delays in reporting our financial results.. Third-party service providers, such as distributors, subcontractors, vendors, and data processors have access to certain portions of our sensitive data. In the event that these service providers do not appropriately protect our data, the result could be a security breach or loss of our data. Any such loss of data by our third-party service providers could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. In addition, if we are unable to prevent security breaches, we may suffer financial and reputational damage or penalties because of the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our customers or suppliers. In addition, the disclosure of non-public sensitive information through external media channels could lead to the loss of intellectual property or damage our reputation and brand image.. We are also in the process of converting certain information technology networks and systems and consolidating certain global systems. If such projects fail, or if unexpected technical difficulties arise, our operations and financial systems could be adversely affected. Further, we could incur additional costs or require additional technical support to resolve such difficulties.. Changes in global geopolitical and general economic conditions and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our business. The following factors beyond our control could adversely affect our business:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tA global economic slowdown affecting any one, or all, of our markets.. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tRapid escalation of the cost of regulatory compliance and litigation.. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tUnexpected government policies and regulations affecting us or our significant customers’ sales or production facilities.. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tRegional conflicts or actions, including, but not limited to, armed conflict and trade wars that could affect our, or our customer's or vendor's, production and delivery capabilities.. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tUnforeseen interruptions to our business with our significant customers and suppliers resulting from labor strikes, financial instabilities, computer malfunctions, environmental disruptions, natural disasters, inventory excesses or other unforeseen events or circumstances.. We operate in a continually changing business environment and new factors emerge from time to time. Other unknown and unpredictable factors also could have either adverse or positive effects on our future results of operations or financial condition."                   
