[1] "ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly from period-to-period and are difficult to predict.. Individual orders can represent a meaningful percentage of our revenues and net income in any single quarter and the timing of the receipt of those orders is difficult to predict. The failure to close an order or the deferral or cancellation of an order can result in revenue and net income shortfalls for that quarter. We base our current and future expense levels on our internal operating plans and sales forecasts, and our operating costs are to a large extent fixed. As a result, we may not be able to sufficiently reduce our costs in any quarter to adequately compensate for an unexpected near-term shortfall in revenues, and even a small shortfall could disproportionately and adversely affect financial results for that quarter.. Our financial results may be negatively affected by a number of factors, including the following:. •the lack or reduction of government funding and the political, budgetary and purchasing constraints of government customers who purchase products and services directly or indirectly from us;. •the terms of customer contracts that affect the timing of revenue recognition;. •the size and timing of our receipt of customer orders;. •significant fluctuations in demand for our products and services;. •the loss of a key customer or one of its key customers;. •new competitors, or the introduction of enhanced solutions from new or existing competitors;. •competitive pressures on selling prices;. •cancellations, delays or contract amendments by government customers;. •higher than expected costs, asset write-offs, and other one-time financial charges; and. •general economic trends and other factors. As a result of these factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our revenue levels and operating results are not necessarily meaningful. You should not rely on our quarterly revenue and operating results to predict our future performance.. We derive a significant portion of our revenue directly or indirectly from government customers, and our business may be adversely affected by changes in the contracting or fiscal policies of those governmental entities.. We derive a significant portion of our revenue directly or indirectly from federal, international, state and local governments. We believe that the success and growth of our business will continue to depend on government customers purchasing our products and services either directly through us or indirectly through our channel partners. Changes in government contracting policies or government budgetary constraints may adversely affect our financial performance. Among the factors that could adversely affect our business are:. •changes in fiscal policies or decreases in available government funding,. •changes in government funding priorities;. •changes in government programs or applicable requirements;. •the adoption of new laws or regulations or changes to existing laws or regulations;. •changes in political or social attitudes with respect to security and defense issues;. •changes in audit policies and procedures of government entities;. •potential delays or changes in the government appropriations process; and. •delays in the payment of our invoices by government payment offices.. These and other factors could cause government customers or our channel partners to reduce purchases of products and services from us which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. 17. A significant commercial market for biometrics technology may not develop, and, even if it does, there can be no assurance our biometrics technology will be successful.. A component of our strategy to grow revenue includes expansion into commercial markets. To date, biometrics technology has received only limited acceptance in such markets. Although the recent appearance of biometric readers on popular consumer products, such as smartphones, has increased interest in biometrics as a means of authenticating and/or identifying individuals, commercial markets for biometrics technology are in the process of developing and evolving. Biometrics-based solutions compete with more traditional security methods including keys, cards, personal identification numbers and security personnel. Acceptance of biometrics as an alternative to such traditional methods depends upon a number of factors including: i) the performance and reliability of biometric solutions; ii) costs involved in adopting and integrating biometric solutions; iii) public concerns regarding privacy; and iv) potential privacy legislation.. For these reasons, we are uncertain whether there will be significant demand for biometrics technology from commercial markets. Moreover, even if there is significant demand, there can be no assurance that our biometrics products will achieve market acceptance.. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from third party channel partners.. Our future results depend upon the continued successful distribution of our products through a channel of systems integrators and OEM partners. Systems integrators, including value added resellers, use our software products as a component of the biometrics systems they deliver to their customers. OEMs embed our software products in their technology devices or software products. These channel partners typically sell their products and services to government customers.. Our failure to effectively manage our relationships with these third parties could impair the success of our sales, marketing and support activities. Moreover, the activities of these third parties are not within our direct control. The occurrence of any of the following events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results:. ·a reduction in sales efforts by our partners;. ·the failure of our partners to win government awards in which our products are used;. ·a reduction in technical capabilities or financial viability of our partners;. ·a misalignment of interest between us and them;. ·the termination of our relationship with a major systems integrator or OEM; or. ·any adverse effect on a partner’s business related to competition, pricing and other factors.. If the biometrics market does not experience significant growth or if our products do not achieve broad acceptance both domestically and internationally, we may not be able to grow our business.. Our revenues are derived primarily from sales of biometrics products and services. We cannot accurately predict the future growth rate or the size of the biometrics market. The expansion of the biometrics market and the market for our biometrics products and services depend on a number of factors, such as:. •the cost, performance and reliability of our products and services and the products and services offered by our competitors;. •the continued growth in demand for biometrics solutions within the government and law enforcement markets as well as the development and growth of demand for biometric solutions in markets outside of government and law enforcement;. •customers’ perceptions regarding the benefits of biometrics solutions;. •public perceptions regarding the intrusiveness of these solutions and the manner in which organizations use the biometric information collected;. •public perceptions regarding the confidentiality of private information;. •proposed or enacted legislation related to privacy of information;. •customers’ satisfaction with biometrics solutions; and. •marketing efforts and publicity regarding biometrics solutions.. 18. Even if biometrics solutions gain wide market acceptance, our solutions may not adequately address market requirements and may not continue to gain market acceptance. If biometrics solutions generally or our solutions specifically do not gain wide market acceptance, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth and our revenues and results of operations would be adversely affected.. We face intense competition from other biometrics solutions providers.. A significant number of established companies have developed or are developing and marketing software and hardware for biometrics products and applications that currently compete with or will compete directly with our offerings. We believe that additional competitors will enter the biometrics market and become significant long-term competitors, and that, as a result, competition will increase. Companies competing with us may introduce solutions that are competitively priced, have increased performance or functionality or incorporate technological advances we have not yet developed or implemented. Our current principal competitors include:. •Diversified technology providers that offer integrated biometrics solutions to governments, law enforcement agencies and other organizations. This group of competitors includes companies such as Idemia, Gemalto, and NEC.. •Component providers that offer biometrics software and hardware components for fingerprint, facial, iris and voice biometric identification. This group of competitors includes companies such as Cognitec, Neurotechnology, Iritech, Nuance Communications, Inc. and Innovatrics.. We expect competition to intensify in the near term in the biometrics market. Many current and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, and research resources than we have. Moreover, low cost foreign competitors from third world and other countries have demonstrated a willingness to sell their products at significantly reduced prices. To compete effectively in this environment, we must continually develop and market new and enhanced solutions and technologies at competitive prices and must have the resources available to invest in significant research and development activities. Our failure to compete successfully could cause our revenues and market share to decline.. The biometrics industry is characterized by rapid technological change and evolving industry standards, which could render our existing products obsolete.. Our future success will depend upon our ability to develop and introduce a variety of new capabilities and enhancements to our existing products in order to address the changing and sophisticated needs of the marketplace. Frequently, technical development programs in the biometrics industry require assessments to be made of the future direction of technology, which is inherently difficult to predict. Delays in introducing new products and enhancements, the failure to choose correctly among technical alternatives or the failure to offer innovative products or enhancements at competitive prices may cause customers to forego purchases of our products and purchase our competitors’ products. We may not have adequate resources available to us or may not adequately keep pace with appropriate requirements in order to effectively compete in the marketplace.. Our software products may have errors, defects or bugs, which could result in delayed or lost revenue, expensive correction, liability to our customers, and claims against us.. Complex software products such as ours may contain errors, defects or bugs. Defects in the products that we develop and sell to our customers could require expensive corrections and result in delayed or lost revenue, adverse customer reaction and negative publicity about us or our products and services. Customers who are not satisfied with any of our products may also bring claims against us for damages, which, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming to defend, and could result in costly litigation and payment of damages. Such claims could harm our reputation, financial results and competitive position.. 19. Our business may be adversely affected by our use of open source software.. The software industry is making increasing use of open source software in the development of products. We also license and integrate certain open source software components from third parties into our software. Open source software license agreements may require that the software code in these components or the software into which they are integrated be freely accessible under open source terms. Many features we may wish to add to our products in the future may be available as open source software and our development team may wish to make use of this software to reduce development costs and speed up the development process. While we carefully monitor the use of all open source software and try to ensure that no open source software is used in such a way as to require us to disclose the source code to the related product, such use could inadvertently occur. If we were required to make our software freely available, our business could be seriously harmed.. We rely on third-party software to develop and provide our solutions and significant defects in third-party software could harm our business.. We rely on software licensed from third parties to develop and offer some of our solutions. In addition,  we may need to obtain future licenses from third parties to use software or other intellectual property associated with our solutions. We cannot assure you that these licenses will be available to us on acceptable terms, without significant price increases or at all. Any loss of the right to use any such software or other intellectual property required for the development and maintenance of our solutions could result in delays in the provision of our solutions until equivalent technology is either developed by us, or, if available from others, is identified, obtained, and integrated, which could harm our business. Any errors or defects in third-party software could result in errors or a failure of our solutions, which could harm our business.. Hardware revenue is likely to be zero in future periods.. We had no hardware revenue in the year ended December 31, 2017. In the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, we had hardware revenue of $0.3 million, and $1.1 million, respectively. Gross profit on hardware revenue was $0.1 million, and $0.4 million in 2016 and 2015, respectively.. Hardware revenue consisted of sales of biometrics equipment to a single U.S. government customer. While we are unable to predict future hardware sales with any degree of certainty, future orders from this customer may be minimal as we believe that the bulk of its purchases may have already occurred. We have no hardware orders in backlog as of December 31, 2017 and our strategy does not include selling biometrics hardware.. Our intellectual property is subject to limited protection.. Because we are a technology provider, our ability to protect our intellectual property and to operate without infringing the intellectual property rights of others is critical to our success. We regard our technology as proprietary. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright, and trademark law as well as confidentiality agreements to protect our proprietary technology, and cannot assure you that we will be able to enforce the patents we own against third parties. Despite our efforts, these measures can only provide limited protection. Unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors may gain access to our technology, and our business would thus be harmed.. In the future, we may be involved in legal action to enforce our intellectual property rights relating to our patents, copyrights or trade secrets. Any such litigation could be costly and time-consuming for us, even if we were to prevail. Moreover, even if we are successful in protecting our proprietary information, our competitors may independently develop technologies substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property or otherwise gaining access to our technology. The misappropriation of our technology or the development of competitive technology could seriously harm our business.. 20. We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights.. Our technology and products may infringe the intellectual property rights of others. A large and increasing number of participants in the technology industry, including companies known as non-practicing entities, have applied for or obtained patents. Some of these patent holders have demonstrated a readiness to commence litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. Third parties have asserted against us in the past and may assert against us in the future patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business.. Intellectual property rights can be uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Moreover, intellectual property claims, with or without merit, can be time-consuming and expensive to litigate or settle, and could divert management attention away from the execution of our business plan. If we were found to have infringed the proprietary rights of others, we could be subject to substantial damages or an injunction preventing us from conducting our business.. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our business could be harmed.. If any of our key employees were to leave, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring qualified successors and could experience a loss in productivity while any successor obtains the necessary training and experience. Our employment relationships are at-will and we have had key employees leave in the past. We cannot assure you that one or more key employees will not leave in the future. We intend to continue to hire additional highly qualified personnel, including software engineers and sales personnel, but may not be able to attract, assimilate or retain qualified personnel in the future. Any failure to attract, integrate, motivate and retain these employees could harm our business.. Our business may be affected by government regulations.. Extensive regulation by federal, state, and foreign regulatory agencies could adversely affect us in ways that are difficult for us to predict. In addition, our business may also be adversely affected by: i) the imposition of tariffs, duties and other import restrictions on goods and services we purchase from non-domestic suppliers; or ii) by the imposition of export restrictions on products we sell internationally. Changes in current or future laws or regulations, in the United States or elsewhere, could seriously harm our business.. Adverse economic conditions could harm our business.. Unfavorable changes in economic conditions, including recessions, inflation, turmoil in financial markets, or other changes in economic conditions, could harm our business, results of operations, and financial conditions as a result of:. ·reduced demand for our products;. ·increased risk of order cancellations or delays;. ·increased pressure on the prices for our products;. ·greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; and. ·risks to our liquidity, including the possibility that we might not have access to our cash when needed.. We are unable to predict the timing, duration, and severity of any such adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries, but the longer the duration, the greater the risks we face in operating our business.. We may make acquisitions of companies.. We may make acquisitions of companies that offer complementary products, services and technologies. Any acquisitions we may complete involve a number of risks, including the risks of assimilating the operations and personnel of acquired companies, realizing the value of the acquired assets relative to the price paid, distraction of management from our ongoing businesses and potential product disruptions associated with the sale of the acquired company’s products. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. The consideration we pay for any future acquisitions could include our stock. As a result, future acquisitions could cause dilution to existing shareholders and to earnings per share.. 21. We may have additional tax liabilities.. We are subject to income taxes in the United States. Significant judgments are required in determining our provisions for income taxes. In the course of preparing our tax provisions and returns, we must make calculations where the ultimate tax determination may be uncertain. Our tax returns are subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and state tax authorities. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. If the ultimate determination of taxes owed is for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued, our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected.. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations, and this may make it difficult for shareholders to resell the common stock when they want or at prices they find attractive.. The market price of our common stock, like that of other technology companies, is volatile and is subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including:. ·quarterly variations in operating results;. ·announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors,. ·changes in customer relationships, such as the loss of a key customer;. ·recruitment or departure of key personnel;. ·corporate actions we may initiate, such as acquisitions, stock sales or repurchases, dividend declarations, or corporate reorganizations; and. ·other events or factors.. Our stock price may also be affected by broader market trends unrelated to our performance. As a result, purchasers of our common stock may be unable at any given time to sell their shares at or above the price they paid for them. Moreover, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock often are subject to securities class action litigation. If we were the subject of such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources.. If we are unable to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock.. As a public company, we are required to enhance and test our financial, internal and management control systems to meet obligations imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Consistent with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the rules and regulations of the SEC, management's assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and the audit opinion of our independent registered accounting firm as to the effectiveness of our controls is required in connection with our filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K. If we are unable to identify, implement and conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting or if our independent auditors are unable to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. Our assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting may also uncover weaknesses or other issues with these controls that could also result in adverse investor reaction.. We must make judgments in the process of preparing our financial statements.. We prepare our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and certain critical accounting policies that are relevant to our business. The application of these principles and policies requires us to make significant judgments and estimates. In the event that our judgments and estimates differ from actual results, we may have to change them, which could materially affect our financial position and results of operations.. Moreover, accounting standards have been subject to rapid change and evolving interpretations by accounting standards setting organizations over the past few years. The implementation of new accounting standards requires us to interpret and apply them appropriately. If our current interpretations or applications are later found to be incorrect, we may have to restate our financial statements and the price of our stock could decline.. 22"
