[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. As a global manufacturer, marketer and distributor of high performance coatings systems, we operate in a business environment that includes risks. These risks are not unlike the risks we have faced in the recent past nor are they unlike risks faced by our competitors. If any of the events contemplated by the following discussion of risks should occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could suffer significantly. While the factors listed here are considered to be the more significant factors, they should not be considered to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. Unlisted factors may present significant additional obstacles which may adversely affect our businesses and our results of operations.. Risks Related to our Business. Risks Related to Execution of our Strategic and Operating Plans. Our business performance is impacted by economic conditions and, particularly, by conditions in the light vehicle and commercial vehicle end-markets. Adverse developments in the global economy, in regional economies or in the light vehicle and commercial vehicle end-markets could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The growth of our business and demand for our products is affected by changes in the health of the overall global economy, regional economies and, in particular, the light vehicle and commercial vehicle end-markets. Our business is adversely affected by decreases in the general level of global economic activity, such as decreases in business and consumer spending, construction activity and industrial manufacturing. Economic developments affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways. For example, a tightening of credit in financial markets could adversely affect the ability of our customers and suppliers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations, could result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for our products and services and could impact the ability of our customers to make payments owed to us. Similarly, a tightening of credit in financial markets could adversely affect our supplier base and increase the potential for one or more of our suppliers to experience financial distress or bankruptcy.. Our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected by difficult economic conditions and/or significant volatility in the capital, credit and commodities markets.. Several of the end-markets we serve are cyclical, and macroeconomic and other factors beyond our control could reduce demand from these end-markets for our products, materially adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. Weak economic conditions could depress new car sales and/or production, reducing demand for our light vehicle OEM coatings and limit the growth of the car parc. These factors could, in turn, cause a related decline in demand for our automotive refinish coatings because, as the age of a vehicle increases, the propensity of car owners to pay for cosmetic repairs generally decreases. Also, during difficult economic times, car owners may refrain from seeking repairs for their damaged vehicles. Similarly, periods of reduced global economic activity could hinder global industrial output, which could decrease demand for our industrial and commercial coating products.. Our global business is adversely affected by decreases in the general level of economic activity, such as decreases in business and consumer spending, construction activity and industrial manufacturing. Disruptions in the United States, Europe or other economies, or weakening of emerging markets, such as Brazil or China, could adversely affect our sales, profitability and/or liquidity.. We may be unable to successfully execute on our growth initiatives, business strategies or operating plans.. We are executing on a number of growth initiatives, strategies and operating plans designed to enhance our business. For example, we are undertaking certain operational improvement initiatives with respect to realigning our manufacturing facilities in multiple regions. In 2017, we began our realignment by shutting down two facilities and adding two facilities which are smaller and more agile to meet our customers' requirements. We will continue this realignment in the coming years. We are also growing our sales force in emerging markets and end-markets where we are underrepresented. The anticipated benefits from these efforts are based on several assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. A variety of risks could cause us not to realize some or all of the expected benefits. These risks include, among others, delays in the anticipated timing of activities related to such growth initiatives, strategies and operating plans; increased difficulty and cost in implementing these efforts; and the incurrence of other unexpected costs associated with operating the business. Further, our continued implementation of these programs may disrupt our operations and performance. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will realize these benefits. If, for any reason, the benefits we realize are less than our estimates or the implementation of these growth initiatives, strategies and operating plans adversely affect our operations or cost more or take longer to effectuate than we expect, or if our assumptions prove inaccurate, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected.. 12. Table of Contents. Increased competition may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We face substantial competition from many international, national, regional and local competitors of various sizes in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of our coatings and related products. Some of our competitors are larger than us and have greater financial resources than we do. Other competitors are smaller and may be able to offer more specialized products. We believe that technology, product quality, product innovation, breadth of product line, technical expertise, distribution, service, local presence and price are the key competitive factors for our business. Competition in any of these areas may reduce our net sales and adversely affect our earnings or cash flow by resulting in decreased sales volumes, reduced prices and increased costs of manufacturing, distributing and selling our products.. Weather conditions may reduce the demand for some of our products and could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. From time to time, weather conditions have an adverse effect on our sales of coatings and related products. For example, unusually mild weather during winter months may lead to fewer vehicle collisions, reducing market demand for our refinish coatings. Conversely, harsh weather conditions or severe storms can force our customers to reduce or suspend operations, thereby reducing the amount of products they purchase from us. Any such reductions in customer purchases could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Improved safety features on vehicles and insurance company influence may reduce the demand for some of our products and could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Vehicle manufacturers continue to develop new safety features such as collision avoidance technology and self-driving vehicles that may reduce vehicle collisions in the future, potentially negatively impacting demand for our refinish coatings. In addition, insurance companies may influence vehicle owners to use body shops that do not use our products, which could also potentially negatively impact demand for our refinish coatings. Any resulting reduction in demand for our refinish coatings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The loss of or reduced purchases by any of our largest customers, or the consolidation of MSOs, distributors and/or body shops, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have some customers that purchase a large amount of products from us and we are also reliant on distributors to assist us in selling our products. Our largest single customer accounted for approximately 6.7% of our 2017 net sales and our largest distributor accounted for approximately 4.4% of our 2017 net sales. Consolidation of any of our customers, including MSOs, distributors and body shops, could decrease our customer base and impact our results of operations if the resulting business chooses to use one of our competitors for the consolidated business. The loss of any of our large customers or significant changes in their level of purchases, as a result of changes in business conditions, working capital levels, product requirements, consolidation or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on our distributor network and third-party delivery services for the distribution and export of certain of our products. A significant disruption in these services or significant increases in prices for those services may disrupt our ability to export material or increase our costs.. We ship a significant portion of our products to our customers through our distributor network as well as independent third-party delivery companies. If any of our key distributors or third-party delivery providers experiences a significant disruption such that our products cannot be delivered in a timely fashion or such that we incur additional shipping costs that we could not pass on to our customers, our costs may increase and our relationships with certain of our customers may be adversely affected. In addition, if our distributors or third-party delivery providers increase prices and we are not able to pass along these increases to customers, find comparable alternatives or adjust our delivery network, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We take on credit risk exposure from our customers in the ordinary course of our business.. We routinely offer customers pre-bates, loans and other financial incentives to purchase our products. These arrangements generally obligate the customer to purchase products from us and/or repay us for products over time. In the event that a customer is unwilling or unable to fulfill its obligations under these arrangements, we may incur a financial loss. In addition, in the ordinary course of our business, we guarantee certain of our customers' obligations to third parties. Any default by our customers on their obligations could force us to make payments to the applicable creditor. It is possible that customer defaults on obligations owed to us and on third-party obligations that we have guaranteed could be significant, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 13. Table of Contents. Price increases or interruptions in the supply of raw materials could have a significant impact on our ability to grow or sustain earnings.. Our manufacturing processes consume significant amounts of raw materials, the costs of which are subject to worldwide supply and demand as well as other factors beyond our control. We use a significant amount of raw materials derived from crude oil and natural gas. As a result, volatile oil and gas prices can cause significant variations in our raw materials costs, affecting our operating results. In rising raw material price environments, we may be unable to pass along these increased costs to our customers. In declining raw material price environments, customers may seek price concessions from us greater than any raw material cost savings we realize. If we are not able to fully offset the effects of higher raw materials costs, or if customers demand greater raw material price concessions than we obtain in low raw material cost environments, our financial results could deteriorate. In addition to the risks associated with raw materials prices, supplier capacity constraints, supplier production disruptions or the unavailability of certain raw materials could result in supply imbalances that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Failure to develop and market new products and manage product life cycles could impact our competitive position and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our operating results are largely dependent on our development and management of our portfolio of current, new and developing products and services as well as our ability to bring those products and services to market. We plan to grow our business by focusing on developing and marketing our solutions to meet increasing demand for productivity. Our ability to execute this strategy and our other growth plans successfully could be adversely affected by difficulties or delays in product development, such as the inability to identify viable new products, successfully complete research and development, obtain relevant regulatory approvals, effectively manage our manufacturing process or costs, obtain intellectual property protection, or gain market acceptance of new products and services. Because of the lengthy and costly development process, technological challenges and intense competition, we cannot assure you that any of the products we are currently developing, or that we may develop in the future, will achieve substantial commercial success. For example, in addition to developing technologically advanced products, commercial success of those products will depend on customer acceptance and implementation of those products. A failure to develop commercially successful products or to develop additional uses for existing products could materially adversely affect our business, financial results or results of operations. Further, sales of our new products could replace sales of some of our current products, offsetting the benefit of even a successful product introduction.. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted by business disruptions and security threats.. Business disruptions, including supply disruptions, increasing costs for energy, temporary plant and/or power outages could harm our operations as well as the operations of our customers, distributors or suppliers. We face security threats and risks of security breaches to our facilities. Although it is impossible to predict the occurrence or consequences of business disruptions or security threats, they could harm our reputation, subject us to material liabilities, result in reduced demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products to our customers or distributors or to receive raw materials from suppliers and create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain.. Our information technology systems are subject to security risks.. We rely on information technology systems to conduct business. Information security risks have generally increased in recent years because of the proliferation of new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of cyber attackers. In addition, by utilizing third parties to perform certain business and administrative functions, we may be exposed to greater risk of data security breaches. Our information technology systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, telecommunication failures, user errors, catastrophes or other unforeseen events. Any such event relating to our systems (or the systems of third parties that we rely on), could result in theft, misuse, modification or destruction of information, including trade secrets and confidential business information, and cause business disruptions, reputational damage and third-party claims, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. While we have designed and implemented controls to restrict access to our data and information technology infrastructure, it is still vulnerable to unauthorized access through cyber attacks, theft and other security breaches. These types of attacks have been attempted against our systems from time to time, and our protective measures may not be adequate to ensure that our operations will not be disrupted, should another such an event occur in the future.. 14. Table of Contents. Our ability to conduct our business might be negatively impacted if we experience difficulties with outsourcing and similar third-party relationships.. We outsource certain business and administrative functions and rely on third parties to perform certain services on our behalf. We may do so increasingly in the future. If we fail to develop and implement our outsourcing strategies, such strategies prove to be ineffective or fail to provide expected cost savings, or our third party providers fail to perform as anticipated, we may experience operational difficulties, increased costs, reputational damage and a loss of business that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to our Global Operations. As a global business, we are subject to risks associated with our non-U.S. operations that are not present in the United States.. We conduct our business on a global basis, with approximately 67% of our 2017 net sales occurring outside the United States. We anticipate that international sales will continue to represent a substantial portion of our net sales and that our strategy for continued growth and profitability will entail further international expansion, particularly in emerging markets. Changes in local and regional economic conditions could affect product demand in our non-U.S. operations. Specifically, our financial results could be affected by changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, laws and regulations, or other activities of U.S. and non-U.S. governments, agencies and similar organizations. These conditions include, but are not limited to, changes in a country's or region's social, economic or political conditions, trade regulations affecting production, pricing and marketing of products, local labor conditions and regulations, reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries, changes in the regulatory or legal environment, restrictions on currency exchange activities, burdensome taxes and tariffs and other trade barriers, as well as the imposition of economic or other trade sanctions, each of which could impact our ability to do business in certain jurisdictions or with certain persons. For example, if the U.S. withdraws from or engages in renegotiation of trade agreements such as the North American Free Trade Agreement, or more aggressively prosecutes trade disputes with countries like China, our ability to do business and execute our growth strategies could be adversely affected. Our international operations also present risks associated with terrorism, political hostilities, war and other civil disturbances, the occurrence of which could lead to reduced net sales and profitability. Our international sales and operations are also sensitive to changes in foreign national priorities, including government budgets.. Our day-to-day operations outside the United States are subject to cultural and language barriers and the need to adopt different business practices in different geographic areas. In addition, we are required to create compensation programs, employment policies and other administrative programs that comply with the laws of multiple countries. We also must communicate and monitor standards and directives across our global operations. Our failure to successfully manage our geographically diverse operations could impair our ability to react quickly to changing business and market conditions and to enforce compliance with non-U.S. standards and procedures.. Any payment of distributions, loans or advances to and from our subsidiaries could be subject to restrictions on or taxation of, dividends or repatriation of earnings under applicable local law, monetary transfer restrictions, foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate or other restrictions imposed by current or future agreements, including debt instruments, to which our non-U.S. subsidiaries may be a party. In particular, our operations in Brazil, China and India where we maintain local currency cash balances are subject to import authorization or pricing controls.. Currency risk may adversely affect our financial condition and cash flows.. We derive a significant portion of our net sales from outside the United States and conduct our business and incur costs in the local currency of most countries in which we operate. Because our financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate our financial results as well as assets and liabilities into U.S. dollars for financial statement reporting purposes at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period, as applicable. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies in countries where we operate will affect our results of operations and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. In particular, we are exposed to the Euro, the Brazilian real, the Chinese yuan, the British pound, the Mexican peso and the Russian ruble. For example, unfavorable movement in the Euro negatively impacted our results of operations in prior periods and a further decline of the Euro could affect future periods. Furthermore, many of our local businesses import or buy raw materials in a currency other than their functional currency, which can impact the operating results for these operations if we are unable to mitigate the impact of the currency exchange fluctuations. We cannot accurately predict the effects of exchange rate fluctuations upon our future operating results because of the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposures and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates. Accordingly, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and cash flows.. 15. Table of Contents. Terrorist acts, conflicts, wars and natural disasters may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As a multinational company with a large international footprint, we are subject to increased risk of damage or disruption to us, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers due to terrorist acts, conflicts, wars, adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, power outages, pandemics or other public health crises and environmental incidents, wherever located around the world. The potential for future terrorist attacks and natural disasters, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks and natural disasters or perceived threats to national security and other actual or potential conflicts or wars may create economic and political uncertainties. In addition, as a multinational company with headquarters and significant operations located in the United States, actions against or by the United States could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain and pose risks to our employees, resulting in the need to impose travel restrictions. A catastrophic loss of the use of all or a portion of one of our key manufacturing facilities due to accident, labor issues, weather conditions, acts of war, political unrest, geopolitical risk, terrorist activity, natural disaster or otherwise, whether short- or long-term, and any interruption in production capability could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to remedy the situation, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The results of the United Kingdom's referendum on withdrawal from the European Union may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business.. In June 2016, a majority of voters in the United Kingdom elected to withdraw from the European Union (\"EU\") in a national referendum. The referendum was advisory, and the terms of any withdrawal are subject to a negotiation period that could last at least two years after the government of the United Kingdom formally initiates a withdrawal process. Nevertheless, the referendum has created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union, including with respect to the laws and regulations that will apply as the United Kingdom determines which European Union laws to replace or replicate in the event of a withdrawal. The referendum has also given rise to calls for the governments of other European Union member states to consider withdrawal. We have substantial R&D and manufacturing operations in Europe and a significant portion of our business involves cross border transactions throughout the region. We cannot predict how the British referendum or similar votes by other European Union member states will impact our operations and business. In addition, these developments, or the perception that any of them could occur, have caused and may continue to cause significant volatility in the global financial markets as well as business conditions in Europe and beyond. This volatility may significantly reduce global market liquidity and restrict the ability of key market participants to operate in certain financial markets. Any of these factors could depress economic activity and restrict our access to capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and reduce the price of our common shares.. 16. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Compliance and Litigation. Our failure to comply with the anti-corruption laws of the United States and various international jurisdictions could negatively impact our reputation and results of operations.. Doing business on a global basis requires us to comply with the laws and regulations of the U.S. government and those of various international and sub-national jurisdictions, and our failure to successfully comply with these rules and regulations may expose us to liabilities. These laws and regulations apply to companies, individual directors, officers, employees and agents, and may restrict our operations, trade practices, investment decisions and partnering activities. In particular, our international operations are subject to U.S. and foreign anti-corruption laws and regulations, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the \"FCPA\"), the United Kingdom Bribery Act 2010 (the \"Bribery Act\") as well as anti-corruption laws of the various jurisdictions in which we operate. The FCPA, the Bribery Act and other laws prohibit us and our officers, directors, employees and agents acting on our behalf from corruptly offering, promising, authorizing or providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purposes of influencing official decisions or obtaining or retaining business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. As part of our business, we deal with state-owned business enterprises, the employees and representatives of which may be considered foreign officials for purposes of the FCPA or the Bribery Act. We are subject to the jurisdiction of various governments and regulatory agencies outside of the United States, which may bring our personnel into contact with foreign officials responsible for issuing or renewing permits, licenses or approvals or for enforcing other governmental regulations. In addition, some of the international locations in which we operate lack a developed legal system and have elevated levels of corruption. Our global operations expose us to the risk of violating, or being accused of violating, the foregoing or other anti-corruption laws. Such violations could be punishable by criminal fines, imprisonment, civil penalties, disgorgement of profits, injunctions and exclusion from government contracts, as well as other remedial measures. Investigations of alleged violations can be very expensive, disruptive and damaging to our reputation. Although we have implemented anti-corruption policies and procedures and introduced training since becoming an independent company, there can be no guarantee that these policies, procedures and training will effectively prevent violations by our employees or representatives in the future. Additionally, we face a risk that our distributors and other business partners may violate the FCPA, the Bribery Act or similar laws or regulations. Such violations could expose us to FCPA and Bribery Act liability and/or our reputation may potentially be harmed by their violations and resulting sanctions and fines.. Our international operations require us to comply with anti-terrorism laws and regulations and applicable trade embargoes.. We are subject to trade and economic sanctions laws and other restrictions on international trade. The U.S. and other governments and their agencies impose sanctions and embargoes on certain countries, their governments and designated parties. In the United States, the economic and trade sanctions programs are principally administered and enforced by the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control. If we fail to comply with these laws, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, other remedial measures and legal expenses, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we have implemented trade-related policies and procedures and introduced training since becoming an independent company, we cannot assure you that such policies, procedures and training will effectively prevent violations in the future, particularly as the scope of certain laws may be unclear and may be subject to changing interpretations.. We cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international sales and manufacturing operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. Future regulations could limit the countries in which some of our products may be manufactured or sold, or could restrict our access to, or increase the cost of obtaining, products from foreign sources. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to complex and evolving data privacy laws.. Our business is subject to complex and evolving U.S. and foreign laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protection and other matters. We could be liable for loss or misuse of our customers' personal information and/or our employee's personally-identifiable information if we fail to prevent or mitigate such misuse or breach. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect customer and employee information and prevent misuse of such information and other security breaches, failure to prevent or mitigate such misuse or breaches may affect our reputation and operating results negatively and may require significant management time and attention.. 17. Table of Contents. As a result of our current and past operations and/or products, including operations and/or products related to our businesses prior to the Acquisition, we could incur significant environmental liabilities and costs.. We are subject to various laws and regulations around the world governing the protection of the environment and health and safety, including the discharge of pollutants to air and water and the management and disposal of hazardous substances. These laws and regulations not only govern our current operations and products, but also impose potential liability on us for our or our predecessors' past operations. We could incur fines, penalties and other sanctions as a result of violations of such laws and regulations. In addition, as a result of our operations and/or products, including our past operations and/or products related to our businesses prior to the Acquisition, we could incur substantial costs, including costs relating to remediation and restoration activities and third-party claims for property damage or personal injury. The ultimate costs under environmental laws and the timing of these costs are difficult to accurately predict. Our accruals for costs and liabilities at sites where contamination is being investigated or remediated may not be adequate because the estimates on which the accruals are based depend on a number of factors including the nature of the matter, the complexity of the site, site geology, the nature and extent of contamination, the type of remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies and, at multi-party sites, other Potentially Responsible Parties (\"PRPs\") and the number and financial viability of other PRPs. Additional contamination may also be identified, and/or additional cleanup obligations may be incurred, at these or other sites in the future. For example, periodic monitoring or investigation activities are ongoing at a number of our sites where contaminants have been detected or are suspected, and we may incur additional costs if more active or extensive remediation is required. In addition, in connection with the Acquisition, DuPont has, subject to certain exceptions and exclusions, agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities relating to environmental remediation obligations and certain claims relating to the exposure to hazardous substances and products manufactured prior to our separation from DuPont. We could incur material additional costs if DuPont fails to meet its obligations, if the indemnification proves insufficient or if we otherwise are unable to recover costs associated with such liabilities. The costs of our current operations complying with complex environmental laws and regulations, as well as internal voluntary programs, are significant and will continue to be so for the foreseeable future as environmental regulations become more stringent. These laws and regulations also change frequently, and we may incur additional costs complying with stricter environmental requirements that are promulgated in the future. Concerns over global climate change as well as more frequent and severe weather events have also promoted a number of legal and regulatory measures as well as social initiatives intended to reduce greenhouse gas and other carbon emissions. We cannot predict the impact that changing climate conditions or more frequent and severe weather events, if any, will have on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Moreover, we cannot predict how legal, regulatory and social responses to concerns about global climate change will impact our business.. As a producer of coatings, we transport certain materials that are inherently hazardous due to their toxic nature.. In our business, we handle and transport hazardous materials. If mishandled or released into the environment, these materials could cause substantial property damage or personal injuries resulting in significant legal claims against us. In addition, evolving regulations concerning the handling and transportation of certain materials could result in increased future capital or operating costs.. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by litigation.. We face risks arising from various litigation matters that have been asserted against us or that may be asserted against us in the future, including, but not limited to, claims for product liability, patent and trademark infringement, antitrust, warranty, contract and third party property damage or personal injury. For instance, we have noted a nationwide trend in purported class actions against chemical manufacturers generally seeking relief such as medical monitoring, property damages, off-site remediation and punitive damages arising from alleged environmental torts without claiming present personal injuries. We have also noted a trend in public and private nuisance suits being filed on behalf of states, counties, cities and utilities alleging harm to the general public. In addition, various factors or developments can lead to changes in current estimates of liabilities such as a final adverse judgment, significant settlement or changes in applicable law. A future adverse ruling or unfavorable development could result in future charges that could have a material adverse effect on us. An adverse outcome in any one or more of these matters could be material to our business, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, product liability claims, regardless of their merits, could be costly, divert management's attention and adversely affect our reputation and demand for our products.. Risks Related to Human Resources. We may not be able to recruit and retain the experienced and skilled personnel we need to compete.. Our future success depends on our ability to attract, retain, develop and motivate highly skilled personnel. We must have talented personnel to succeed and competition for senior management in our industry is intense. Our ability to meet our performance goals depends upon the personal efforts and abilities of the principal members of our senior management who provide strategic direction, develop our business, manage our operations and maintain a cohesive and stable work environment. We cannot assure you that we will retain or successfully recruit senior executives, or that their services will remain available to us.. 18. Table of Contents. We rely on qualified managers and skilled employees, such as scientists, with technical and manufacturing industry experience in order to operate our business successfully. From time to time, there may be a shortage of skilled labor, which may make it more difficult and expensive for us to attract and retain qualified employees. If we are unable to attract and retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals or our costs to do so increase significantly, our operations could be materially adversely affected.. If we are required to make unexpected payments to any pension plans applicable to our employees, our financial condition may be adversely affected.. We have defined benefit pension plans in which many of our current and former employees outside the United States participate or have participated. Many of these plans are underfunded or unfunded and the liabilities in relation to these plans will need to be satisfied as they mature from our operating reserves. In jurisdictions where the defined benefit pension plans are intended to be funded with assets in a trust or other funding vehicle, the liabilities exceed the corresponding assets in many of the plans. Various factors, such as changes in actuarial estimates and assumptions (including as to life expectancy, discount rates and rate of return on assets) as well as actual return on assets, can increase the expenses and liabilities of the defined benefit pension plans. The assets and liabilities of the plans must be valued from time to time under applicable funding rules and as a result we may be required to increase the cash payments we make in relation to these defined benefit pension plans.. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected to the extent that we are required to make any additional payments to any relevant defined benefit pension plans in excess of the amounts assumed in our current projections and assumptions or report higher pension plan expenses under relevant accounting rules.. We are subject to work stoppages, union negotiations, labor disputes and other matters associated with our labor force, which may adversely impact our operations and cause us to incur incremental costs.. Many of our employees globally are in unions or otherwise covered by labor agreements, including works councils. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 0.1% of our U.S. workforce was unionized and approximately 55% of our workforce outside the United States was unionized or otherwise covered by labor agreements. Consequently, we may be subject to potential union campaigns, work stoppages, union negotiations and other potential labor disputes. Additionally, negotiations with unions or works councils in connection with existing labor agreements may result in significant increases in our cost of labor, divert management's attention away from operating our business or break down and result in the disruption of our operations. The occurrence of any of the preceding outcomes could impair our ability to manufacture our products and result in increased costs and/or decreased operating results. Further, we may be impacted by work stoppages at our suppliers or customers that are beyond our control.. Risks Related to Intellectual Property. Our inability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our financial results.. Intellectual property rights both in the United States and in foreign countries, including patents, trade secrets, confidential information, trademarks and trade names, are important to our business and will be critical to our ability to grow and succeed in the future. We make strategic decisions on whether to apply for intellectual property protection and what kind of protection to pursue based on a cost benefit analysis. While we endeavor to protect our intellectual property rights in certain jurisdictions in which our products are produced or used and in jurisdictions into which our products are imported, the decision to file for intellectual property protection is made on a case-by-case basis. Because of the differences in foreign trademark, patent and other laws concerning proprietary rights, our intellectual property rights may not receive the same degree of protection in foreign countries as they would in the United States. Our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have applied for patent protection relating to certain existing and proposed products, processes and services in certain jurisdictions. While we generally consider applying for patents in those countries where we intend to make, have made, use or sell patented products, we may not accurately assess all of the countries where patent protection will ultimately be desirable. If we fail to timely file a patent application in any such country, we may be precluded from doing so at a later date. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that our pending patent applications will not be challenged by third parties or that such applications will eventually be issued by the applicable patent offices as patents. We also cannot assure you that the patents issued as a result of our foreign patent applications will have the same scope of coverage as our U.S. patents. It is possible that only a limited number of the pending patent applications will result in issued patents, which may have a materially adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. 19. Table of Contents. The patents we own could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others and may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. Furthermore, our existing patents are subject to challenges from third parties that may result in invalidations and will all eventually expire, after which we will not be able to prevent our competitors from using our previously patented technologies, which could materially adversely affect our competitive advantage stemming from those products and technologies. We also cannot assure you that competitors will not infringe our patents, or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our patents.. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. It is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require certain employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements as we deem appropriate. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into these confidentiality agreements or that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, we could be materially adversely affected.. We rely on our trademarks, trade names and brand names to distinguish our products from the products of our competitors, and have registered or applied to register many of these trademarks. We cannot assure you that our trademark applications will be approved. Third parties may also oppose our trademark applications, or otherwise challenge our use of the trademarks. In the event that our trademarks are successfully challenged, we could be forced to rebrand our products, which could result in loss of brand recognition, and could require us to devote resources to advertising and marketing new brands. Further, we cannot assure you that competitors will not infringe our trademarks, or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our trademarks. We also license third parties to use our trademarks. In an effort to preserve our trademark rights, we enter into license agreements with these third parties that govern the use of our trademarks and contain limitations on their use. Although we make efforts to police the use of our trademarks by our licensees, we cannot assure you that these efforts will be sufficient to ensure that our licensees abide by the terms of their licenses. In the event that our licensees fail to do so, our trademark rights could be diluted.. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, it may be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome in any litigation could harm our business.. We cannot assure you that our activities will not, unintentionally or otherwise, infringe on the patents, trademarks or other intellectual property rights owned by others. We may spend significant time and effort and incur significant litigation costs if we are required to defend ourselves against intellectual property rights claims brought against us, regardless of whether the claims have merit. If we are found to have infringed on the patents, trademarks or other intellectual property rights of others, we may be subject to substantial claims for damages, which could materially impact our cash flow, business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also be required to cease development, use or sale of the relevant products or processes, or we may be required to obtain a license on the disputed rights, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.. Risks Related to Other Aspects of our Business. We may continue to engage in acquisitions and divestitures, and may encounter difficulties integrating acquired businesses with, or disposing of divested businesses from, our current operations and, as a result, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions and divestitures.. We may continue to seek to grow through strategic acquisitions, joint ventures or other arrangements. Our due diligence reviews in these transactions may not identify all of the material issues necessary to accurately estimate the cost or potential loss contingencies with respect to a particular transaction, including potential exposure to regulatory sanctions resulting from a counterparty's previous activities. We may incur unanticipated costs or expenses, including post-closing asset impairment charges, expenses associated with eliminating duplicate facilities, litigation and other liabilities. We may also face regulatory scrutiny as a result of perceived concentration in certain markets, which could cause additional delay or prevent us from completing certain acquisitions that would be beneficial to our business. We may also encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions with our operations, applying our internal controls processes to these acquisitions or in managing strategic investments. Additionally, we may not achieve the benefits we anticipate when we first enter into a transaction in the amount or on the timeframe anticipated. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, accounting requirements relating to business combinations, including the requirement to expense certain acquisition costs as incurred, may cause us to experience greater earnings volatility and generally lower earnings during periods in which we acquire new businesses. Furthermore, we may make strategic divestitures from time to time. These divestitures may result in continued financial involvement in the divested businesses, such as through indemnities, guarantees or other financial arrangements. These arrangements could result in financial obligations imposed upon us and could affect our future financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions and divestitures may also require us to devote significant internal resources and could divert management's attention away from operating our business.. 20. Table of Contents. Our joint ventures may not operate according to our business strategy if our joint venture partners fail to fulfill their obligations.. As part of our business, we have entered into certain joint venture arrangements, and may enter into additional joint venture arrangements in the future. The nature of a joint venture requires us to share control over significant decisions with unaffiliated third parties. Since we may not exercise control over our current or future joint ventures, we may not be able to require our joint ventures to take actions that we believe are necessary to implement our business strategy. Additionally, differences in views among joint venture participants may result in delayed decisions or failures to agree on major issues. If these differences cause the joint ventures to deviate from our business strategy, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. The insurance we maintain may not fully cover all potential exposures.. Our product liability, property, business interruption and casualty insurance coverages may not cover all risks associated with the operation of our business and may not be sufficient to offset the costs of any losses, lost sales or increased costs experienced during business interruptions. For some risks, we may elect not to obtain insurance. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially and, in some instances, certain insurance policies may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. As a result, we may not be able to renew our insurance policies or procure other desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Losses and liabilities from uninsured or underinsured events and delay in the payment of insurance proceeds could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may need to recognize impairment charges related to goodwill, identifiable intangible assets and fixed assets.. Under the acquisition method of accounting, net assets acquired are recorded at fair value as of the acquisition date, with any excess purchase price allocated to goodwill. Our acquisitions have resulted in significant balances of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. There is significant judgment required in the analysis of a potential impairment of goodwill, identified intangible assets and fixed assets. If, as a result of a general economic slowdown, deterioration in one or more of the markets in which we operate or impairment in our financial performance and/or future outlook, the estimated fair value of our long-lived assets decreases, we may determine that one or more of our long-lived assets is impaired. An impairment charge would be determined based on the estimated fair value of the assets and any such impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.. Our Predecessor financial information may not be comparable to the Successor financial information.. Our Predecessor financial information may not reflect what our results of operations and cash flows would have been had we been a separate, standalone entity during those periods and may not be indicative of what our results of operations and cash flows will be in the future. As a result, you have limited information on which to evaluate our business. This is primarily because:.  Our Predecessor combined financial information has been derived from the financial statements and accounting records of DuPont and reflects assumptions made by DuPont. Those assumptions and allocations may be different from the comparable expenses we would have incurred as a standalone company;.  Certain general corporate expenses were historically allocated to the Predecessor period by DuPont that, while reasonable, may not be indicative of the actual expenses that would have been incurred had we been operating as a standalone company, nor are they indicative of the costs that will be incurred in the future as a standalone company;.  Our working capital requirements historically were satisfied as part of DuPont's corporate-wide cash management policies. Since becoming a standalone company, we no longer rely on DuPont for working capital. In connection with the Acquisition, we incurred a large amount of indebtedness and will therefore assume significant debt service costs. As a result, our cost of debt and capitalization is significantly different from that reflected in the Predecessor financial information; and.  Following the Acquisition, we have experienced increases in our costs, including the cost to establish an appropriate accounting and reporting system, debt service obligations, providing healthcare and other costs of being a standalone company.. DuPont's potential breach of its obligations in connection with the Acquisition, including failure to comply with its indemnification obligations, may materially affect our business and operating results.. Although the Acquisition closed on February 1, 2013, DuPont still has performance obligations to us, including fulfilling indemnification requirements. We could incur material additional costs if DuPont fails to meet its obligations or if we otherwise are unable to recover costs associated with such liabilities.. We may be subject to changes in our tax rates and the adoption of tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities that may adversely affect our results of operations.. 21. Table of Contents. We are subject to taxes in the U.S. and non-U.S. jurisdictions where our subsidiaries are organized. Due to economic and political conditions, tax rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. Our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in available tax credits or tax deductions and changes in tax laws or their interpretation, such as interpretations as to the legality of tax advantages granted under the EU state aid rules. Our tax returns and other tax matters are subject to examination by local tax authorities and governmental bodies. We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. If our effective tax rates were to increase, or if the ultimate determination of the taxes owed by us is for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued, our operating results, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"U.S. TCJA\") legislation was enacted into law, which significantly revises the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. While our current tax accounting and future expectations are provisional and based on our present understanding of the provisions under the U.S. TCJA, further interpretive guidance of the U.S TCJA's provisions could result in further adjustments that could have an impact on our future results of operations, cash flows or financial positions. In addition, it is uncertain if and to what extent various states and localities will conform to the newly enacted federal tax law.. If we are treated as a financial institution under FATCA, withholding tax may be imposed on payments on our common shares.. Sections 1471 through 1474 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"), and applicable Treasury Regulations commonly referred to as \"FATCA\" may impose 30% withholding on \"foreign passthru payments\" made by a \"foreign financial institution\" (as defined in the Code) that has entered into an agreement with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service to perform certain diligence and reporting obligations with respect to the foreign financial institution's U.S.-owned accounts. Such withholding on \"foreign passthru payments\" will apply from January 1, 2019 at the earliest. The applicable Treasury Regulations treat an entity as a \"financial institution\" if it is a holding company formed in connection with or availed of by a private equity fund or other similar investment vehicle established with an investment strategy of investing, reinvesting or trading in financial assets. The term \"foreign passthru payment\" is currently not defined. The United States has entered into an intergovernmental agreement (an \"IGA\") with Bermuda, which modifies the FATCA withholding regime described above. It is not clear whether we would be treated as a financial institution subject to the diligence, reporting and withholding obligations under FATCA or the Bermuda IGA. Furthermore, it is not yet clear how the Bermuda IGA will address foreign passthru payments. Prospective investors should consult their tax advisors regarding the potential impact of FATCA, the Bermuda IGA and any non-U.S. legislation implementing FATCA, on their investment in our common shares.. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our common shares.. Based on the market price of our common shares and the composition of our income, assets and operations, we do not expect to be treated as a passive foreign investment company (\"PFIC\") for U.S. federal income tax purposes for the current taxable year or in the foreseeable future. However, the application of the PFIC rules is subject to uncertainty in several respects, and we cannot assure you the U.S. Internal Revenue Service will not take a contrary position. Furthermore, this is a factual determination that must be made annually after the close of each taxable year. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. person holds our common shares, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply to such U.S. person.. Risks Related to our Indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy and our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations with respect to our indebtedness.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $3.9 billion of indebtedness on a consolidated basis, including $500.0 million of our 2024 Dollar Senior Notes (as defined herein), $399.7 million of our 2024 Euro Senior Notes (as defined herein), $536.9 million of our 2025 Euro Senior Notes (as defined herein), $1,960.0 million of the 2024 Dollar Term Loan facility (as defined herein) and $472.5 million of the 2023 Euro Term Loan facility (as defined herein). In addition, as of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $364.5 million in borrowing capacity available under our Revolving Credit Facility, after giving effect to $35.5 million of outstanding letters of credit. As of December 31, 2017, we were in compliance with all of the covenants under our outstanding debt instruments.. 22. Table of Contents. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to you. For example, it could:.  limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes;.  require us to devote a substantial portion of our annual cash flow to the payment of interest on our indebtedness;.  expose us to the risk of increased interest rates as, over the term of our debt, the interest cost on a significant portion of our indebtedness is subject to changes in interest rates;.  hinder our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions;.  limit our ability to secure adequate bank financing in the future with reasonable terms and conditions or at all; and.  increase our vulnerability to and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, a potential downturn in general economic conditions or in one or more of our businesses.. We are more leveraged than some of our competitors, which could adversely affect our business plans. A relatively greater portion of our cash flow is used to service debt and other financial obligations. This reduces the funds we have available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes and may make it more difficult for us to borrow in the future. Similarly, our relatively greater leverage increases our vulnerability to, and limits our flexibility in planning for, adverse economic and industry conditions and creates other competitive disadvantages compared with other companies with relatively less leverage.. In addition, the indentures governing the New Senior Notes (as defined herein) and the agreements governing our Senior Secured Credit Facilities (as defined herein) contain affirmative and negative covenants that limit our and certain of our subsidiaries' ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debts.. To service all of our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash and our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control.. Our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries and our ability to make cash payments on our indebtedness will depend on the earnings and the distribution of funds from our subsidiaries. None of our subsidiaries, however, is obligated to make funds available to us for payment on our indebtedness. Further, the terms of the instruments governing our indebtedness significantly restrict our subsidiaries from paying dividends and otherwise transferring assets to us. Our ability to make cash payments on and refinance our debt obligations, to fund planned capital expenditures and to meet other cash requirements will depend on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We might not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness.. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs, including planned capital expenditures. In such circumstances, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, issuing additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances. Such actions, if necessary, may not be effected on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The instruments governing our indebtedness restrict our ability to sell assets and our use of the proceeds from such sales, and we may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations then due.. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants in the instruments governing our indebtedness, we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness. In the event of such default, the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, the lenders under our Revolving Credit Facility could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If our operating performance declines, we may in the future need to obtain waivers from the required lenders under the credit agreement governing our Senior Secured Credit Facilities or the indentures governing the New Senior Notes to avoid being in default. If we breach our covenants under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities or New Senior Notes or we are in default thereunder and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required lenders. If this occurs, we would be in default under the credit agreement governing our Senior Secured Credit Facilities and our New Senior Notes, the lenders could exercise their rights, as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.. 23. Table of Contents. Despite our current level of indebtedness and restrictive covenants, we and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness or we may pay dividends in the future. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial financial leverage.. We and our subsidiaries may incur significant additional indebtedness under the agreements governing our indebtedness. Although the indentures governing the New Senior Notes and the credit agreement governing our Senior Secured Credit Facilities contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of thresholds, qualifications and exceptions, and the additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Additionally, these restrictions also will not prevent us from incurring obligations that, although preferential to our common shares in terms of payment, do not constitute indebtedness. As of December 31, 2017, we had $364.5 million of additional borrowing capacity under our Revolving Credit Facility, after giving effect to $35.5 million of outstanding letters of credit.. In addition, if new debt is added to our and/or our subsidiaries' debt levels, the related risks that we now face as a result of our leverage would intensify. See Part II, Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Financial Condition.\". We are dependent upon our lenders for financing to execute our business strategy and meet our liquidity needs. If our lenders are unable or unwilling to fund borrowings under their credit commitments or we are unable to borrow, it could negatively impact our business.. We are dependent upon our lenders for financing to execute our business strategy and meet our liquidity needs. If our lenders are unable to fund borrowings under their credit commitments or we are unable to borrow from them for any reason, our business could be negatively impacted. During periods of volatile credit markets, there is risk that any lenders, even those with strong balance sheets and sound lending practices, could fail or refuse to honor their legal commitments and obligations under existing credit commitments, including, but not limited to, extending credit up to the maximum permitted by a credit facility, allowing access to additional credit features and otherwise accessing capital and/or honoring loan commitments. If our lenders are unable or unwilling to fund borrowings under their revolving credit commitments or we are unable to borrow from them, it could be difficult in such environments to obtain sufficient liquidity to meet our operational needs.. Our ability to obtain additional capital on commercially reasonable terms may be limited.. Although we believe our cash and cash equivalents, together with cash we expect to generate from operations and unused capacity available under our Revolving Credit Facility, provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating requirements, we may need to seek additional financing to compete effectively.. If we are unable to obtain capital on commercially reasonable terms, it could:.  reduce funds available to us for purposes such as working capital, capital expenditures, research and development, strategic acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;.  restrict our ability to introduce new products or exploit business opportunities;.  increase our vulnerability to economic downturns and competitive pressures in the markets in which we operate; and.  place us at a competitive disadvantage.. 24. Table of Contents. Difficult and volatile conditions in the capital, credit and commodities markets and in the overall economy could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Difficult global economic conditions, including concerns about sovereign debt and significant volatility in the capital, credit and commodities markets, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. These global economic factors, combined with low levels of business and consumer confidence and high levels of unemployment in certain parts of the world, have precipitated a slow recovery from the global recession and concern about a return to recessionary conditions. The difficult conditions in these markets and the overall economy affect our business in a number of ways. For example:.  as a result of the volatility in commodity prices, we may encounter difficulty in achieving sustained market acceptance of past or future price increases, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows;.  under difficult market conditions there can be no assurance that borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility would be available or sufficient, and in such a case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on reasonable terms, or at all;.  in order to respond to market conditions, we may need to seek waivers from various provisions in the credit agreement governing our Senior Secured Credit Facilities or the indentures governing the New Senior Notes, and in such case, there can be no assurance that we can obtain such waivers at a reasonable cost, if at all;.  market conditions could cause the counterparties to the derivative financial instruments we may use to hedge our exposure to interest rate, commodity or currency fluctuations to experience financial difficulties and, as a result, our efforts to hedge these exposures could prove unsuccessful and, furthermore, our ability to engage in additional hedging activities may decrease or become more costly; and.  market conditions could result in our key customers experiencing financial difficulties and/or electing to limit spending, which in turn could result in decreased sales and earnings for us.. In general, downturns in economic conditions can cause fluctuations in demand for our and our customers' products, product prices, volumes and margins. Future economic conditions may not be favorable to our industry and future growth in demand for our products, if any, may not be sufficient to alleviate any existing or future conditions of excess industry capacity. A decline in the demand for our products or a shift to lower-margin products due to deteriorating economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could also result in impairments of certain of our assets. We do not know if market conditions or the state of the overall economy will continue to improve in the near future. We cannot provide assurance that a continuation of current economic conditions or a further economic downturn in one or more of the geographic regions in which we sell our products would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our debt obligations may limit our flexibility in managing our business.. The indentures governing our New Senior Notes and the credit agreement governing our Senior Secured Credit Facilities require us to comply with a number of customary financial and other covenants, such as maintaining leverage ratios in certain situations and maintaining insurance coverage. See Part II, Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Financial Condition.\" These covenants may limit our flexibility in our operations, and breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness even if we had satisfied our payment obligations. If we were to default on the indentures governing our New Senior Notes, the credit agreement governing our Senior Secured Credit Facilities or other debt instruments, our financial condition and liquidity would be adversely affected.. 25. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Shares. Axalta Coating Systems Ltd. is a holding company with no operations of its own. Because our operations are conducted almost entirely through our subsidiaries and joint ventures, we are largely dependent on our receipt of distributions and dividends or other payments from our subsidiaries and joint ventures for cash to fund all of our operations and expenses, including to make future dividend payments, if any.. Our operations are conducted almost entirely through our subsidiaries and our ability to generate cash to meet our debt service obligations or to make future dividend payments, if any, is highly dependent on the earnings and the receipt of funds from our subsidiaries in the form of dividends, loans or advances and through repayment of loans or advances from us. Payments to us by our subsidiaries and joint ventures will be contingent upon our subsidiaries' or joint ventures' earnings and other business considerations and may be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions. We do not currently expect to declare or pay dividends on our common shares for the foreseeable future; however, to the extent that we determine in the future to pay dividends on our common shares, the credit agreement governing our Senior Secured Credit Facilities and the indentures governing the New Senior Notes have certain restrictions over the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise transfer assets to us. In addition, Bermuda law imposes requirements that may restrict our ability to pay dividends to holders of our common shares. In addition, there may be significant tax and other legal restrictions on the ability of foreign subsidiaries or joint ventures to remit money to us.. The price of our common shares may fluctuate significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Volatility in the market price of our common shares may prevent you from being able to sell your common shares at or above the price you paid for your common shares. The market price of our common shares could fluctuate significantly for various reasons, including:.  our operating and financial performance and prospects;.  our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry;.  the public's reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC;.  changes in, or failure to meet, earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who track our common shares or the stock of other companies in our industry;.  the failure of research analysts to cover our common shares;.  strategic actions by us, our customers or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings, or market rumors regarding such actions;.  new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business;.  changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;.  the impact on our profitability temporarily caused by the time lag between when we experience cost increases until these increases flow through cost of sales because of our method of accounting for inventory, or the impact from our inability to pass on such price increases to our customers;.  material litigations or government investigations;.  changes in general conditions in the United States and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to such events;.  changes in key personnel;.  sales of common shares by us, Berkshire Hathaway Inc.'s affiliate (\"Berkshire\") or members of our management team;.  the granting of restricted common shares, stock options and other equity awards;.  volume of trading in our common shares; and.  the realization of any risks described under this \"Risk Factors\" section.. In addition, over the past several years, the stock markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. The changes frequently appear to occur without regard to the operating performance of the affected companies. Hence, the price of our common shares could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our share price and cause you to lose all or part of your investment. Further, in the past, market fluctuations and price declines in a company's stock have led to securities class action litigations. If such a suit were to arise, it could have a substantial cost and divert our resources regardless of the outcome.. 26. Table of Contents. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls over financial reporting, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired and investors' views of us could be harmed.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the \"Sarbanes-Oxley Act\") requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. One key aspect of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act is that we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, with auditor attestation of the effectiveness of our internal controls. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our common shares could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the New York Stock Exchange (\"NYSE\"), the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources.. Our ability to successfully implement our business plan and comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to be able to prepare timely and accurate financial statements, among other requirements. Any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, may cause our operations to suffer and we may be unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective and to obtain an unqualified report on internal controls from our auditors. Moreover, we cannot be certain that these measures would ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Even if we were to conclude, and our independent registered public accounting firm were to concur, that our internal control over financial reporting provided reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (\"U.S. GAAP\"), because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect fraud or misstatements. This, in turn, could have an adverse impact on the market price for our common shares, and could adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets.. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common shares and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common shares.. We do not intend to declare and pay dividends on our common shares for the foreseeable future. Therefore, you are not likely to receive any dividends on your common shares for the foreseeable future and the success of an investment in our common shares will depend upon any future appreciation in their value. There is no guarantee that our common shares will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our shareholders have purchased their shares. The payment of future dividends, however, will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other considerations that our Board of Directors deems relevant. The credit agreement governing our Senior Secured Credit Facilities and the indentures governing the New Senior Notes also effectively limit our ability to pay dividends. As a consequence of these limitations and restrictions, we may not be able to make, or may have to reduce or eliminate, the payment of dividends on our common shares.. Future sales of our common shares in the public market could lower our share price, and any additional capital raised by us through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities may dilute your ownership in us and may adversely affect the market price of our common shares.. We and our shareholders may sell additional common shares in subsequent offerings. We may also issue additional common shares or convertible debt securities. As of February 15, 2018, we had 1,000,000,000 common shares authorized and 245,076,781 common shares outstanding.. We cannot predict the size of future issuances or sales of our common shares or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of our common shares will have on the market price of our common shares. Sales of substantial amounts of our common shares (including sales that may occur pursuant to the registration rights of Berkshire, sales by members of management and shares that may be issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common shares. See Part III, Item 13, \"Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence.\". 27. Table of Contents. We are a Bermuda company and it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments against us or our directors and executive officers.. We are a Bermuda exempted company. As a result, the rights of our shareholders are governed by Bermuda law and our memorandum of association and bye-laws. The rights of shareholders under Bermuda law may differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in another jurisdiction, and a substantial portion of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process on those persons in the United States or to enforce in the United States judgments obtained in U.S. courts against us or those persons based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws. It is doubtful whether courts in Bermuda will enforce judgments obtained in other jurisdictions, including the United States, against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of those jurisdictions or entertain actions in Bermuda against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of other jurisdictions.. Bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to our shareholders.. We are organized under the laws of Bermuda. As a result, our corporate affairs are governed by the Companies Act 1981 (the \"Companies Act\"), which differs in some material respects from laws typically applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including the provisions relating to interested directors, amalgamations, mergers and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors. Generally, the duties of directors and officers of a Bermuda company are owed to the company only. Shareholders of Bermuda companies typically do not have rights to take action against directors or officers of the company and may only do so in limited circumstances. Shareholder class actions are not available under Bermuda law. The circumstances in which shareholder derivative actions may be available under Bermuda law are substantially more proscribed and less clear than they would be to shareholders of U.S. corporations. The Bermuda courts, however, would ordinarily be expected to permit a shareholder to commence an action in the name of a company to remedy a wrong to the company where the act complained of is alleged to be beyond the corporate power of the company or illegal, or would result in the violation of the company's memorandum of association or bye-laws. Furthermore, consideration would be given by a Bermuda court to acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against the minority shareholders or, for instance, where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of the company's shareholders than those who actually approved it.. When the affairs of a company are being conducted in a manner that is oppressive or prejudicial to the interests of some shareholders, one or more shareholders may apply to the Supreme Court of Bermuda, which may make such order as it sees fit, including an order regulating the conduct of the company's affairs in the future or ordering the purchase of the shares of any shareholders by other shareholders or by the company. Additionally, under our bye-laws and as permitted by Bermuda law, each shareholder has waived any claim or right of action against our directors or officers for any action taken by directors or officers in the performance of their duties, except for actions involving fraud or dishonesty. In addition, the rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Bermuda law are not as clearly established as under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in jurisdictions in the United States, particularly the State of Delaware. Therefore, our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction within the United States.. We have anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws that may discourage a change of control.. Our bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions provide for:.  a classified Board of Directors with staggered three-year terms;.  directors only to be removed for cause;.  restrictions on the time period in which directors may be nominated; and.  our Board of Directors to determine the powers, preferences and rights of our preference shares and to issue the preference shares without shareholder approval.. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company and may prevent our shareholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common shares offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares if the provisions are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests, make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect directors of your choosing and cause us to take corporate actions other than those you desire.. 28. Table of Contents"
