[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. Set forth below and elsewhere in this Form 10 - K and in other documents we file with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward - looking statements contained in this Form 10 - K. It is not possible to predict or identify all such risk factors. Consequently, the following is not a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties.. If semiconductor chip manufacturers do not make sufficient capital expenditures, our sales and profitability will be harmed.. New systems orders and used tool sales depend upon demand from semiconductor chip manufacturers who build or expand fabrication facilities. The impact of this demand on the Company will vary with the type of semiconductor chip manufacturers that are purchasing systems.  For example, changes in demand in the memory and mature process technology segments will most significantly impact the Company since customers in these segments account for 85% of implant capital expenditures. When the rate of construction or expansion of fabrication facilities declines, demand for our systems will decline, reducing our revenue. In addition, all or a portion of the demand for increased capacity may be satisfied by a semiconductor chip manufacturer's ability to reconfigure and re-use equipment they already own.  Revenue decline also hurts our profitability because our established cost structure and our continued investments in engineering, research and development and marketing necessary to develop new products and to maintain extensive customer service and support capabilities limit our ability to reduce expenses in proportion to declining sales.. If we fail to develop and introduce reliable new or enhanced products and services that meet the needs of semiconductor chip manufacturers, our results will suffer.. Rapid technological changes in semiconductor chip manufacturing processes require us to respond quickly to changing customer requirements. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to develop, manufacture and successfully introduce new systems and product lines with improved capabilities. This will depend upon a variety of factors, including new product selection, timely and efficient completion of product design and development as well as manufacturing and assembly processes, product performance in the field and effective sales and marketing. In particular:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tWe must continue to develop competitive technical specifications for new systems, or enhancements to our existing systems, and manufacture and ship these systems or enhancements in volume in a timely manner..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tWe will need to accurately predict the schedule on which our customers will be ready to transition to new products, in order to accurately forecast demand for new products while managing the transition from older products..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tWe will need to effectively manage product reliability or quality problems that often exist with new systems, in order to avoid higher manufacturing costs, delays in acceptance and payment and additional service and warranty expenses, and ultimately, a lack of repeat orders..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tOur new products must be accepted in the marketplace.. Our failure to meet any of these requirements will have a material adverse effect on our operating results and profitability.. A significant portion of our revenue depends on customers electing to buy aftermarket products and services from Axcelis.. Historically, a significant portion of our product revenue and all of our service revenue relates to our sale of \"aftermarket\" products and services, which include parts, consumables, upgrades, service contracts, and time and materials billings. Some of our customers purchase fewer aftermarket products and services, often training their own. 10. staff to maintain and service semiconductor capital equipment rather than relying on the equipment manufacturer for these services. In addition, we compete against third party parts suppliers for the sale of parts and consumables that are not protected by patents or otherwise proprietary. To the extent our customers purchase parts and services from other vendors or provide their own system maintenance labor, our revenue will be less.. Our financial results may fluctuate significantly.. We derive our new systems revenue from the sale of a small number of expensive products to a relatively small number of customers. The selling prices on our ion implant and other systems range from approximately $2.0 million to $8.0 million. We also sell used equipment in our aftermarket business. Each sale, or failure to make a sale, may have a significant effect on us in a particular quarter. In a given quarter, a number of factors can adversely affect our revenue and results, including changes in our product mix, increased fixed expenses per unit due to reductions in the number of products manufactured, and higher fixed costs due to increased levels of research and development and expansion of our worldwide sales and marketing organization. Our financial results also fluctuate based on gross profit realized on sales. A variety of factors may cause gross profit as a percentage of revenue to vary, including the mix and average selling prices of products sold, costs to manufacture and customize systems, warranty costs and impact of changes to inventory reserves. New product introductions may also affect our gross margin. Fluctuations in our financial results may have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock.. Our financial results may fall short of anticipated levels because forecasting revenue and profitability is complex and may be inaccurate.. Management may from time to time provide financial forecasts to investors. These forecasts are based on assumptions, which are believed to be reasonable when made, of shipment timing and system acceptance timing. Any of these assumptions can prove erroneous and the level of revenue recognizable in a particular quarter may vary from the forecast. Our lengthy sales cycle, coupled with customers' competing capital budget considerations, make the timing of customer orders difficult to predict. In addition, our backlog at the beginning of a quarter typically does not include all orders required to achieve our sales objectives for that quarter and is not a reliable indicator of our future sales. As a result, our revenue and operating results for a quarter depend on our shipping orders as scheduled during that quarter, receiving customer acceptance of previously shipped products, and obtaining new orders for products to be shipped in that same quarter. Any delay in, or cancellation of, scheduled shipments and customer acceptances or in shipments from new orders could materially affect our financial results.. Accounting rules addressing revenue recognition add more complexity in forecasting quarterly revenue and profitability. Orders for our products usually contain multiple delivery elements that result in revenue deferral under generally accepted accounting principles. Due to the foregoing factors, investors should understand that our actual financial results for a quarter may vary significantly from our forecasts of financial performance for that quarter. Failure to meet forecasted financial performance may have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock.. The semiconductor industry is cyclical and we expect that demand for our products will increase and decrease, making it difficult to manage the business and potentially causing harm to our sales and profitability.. The semiconductor industry is cyclical, experiencing upturns when the demand for our products is high and downturns when our customers are not investing in new or expanded fabrication facilities. From time to time, inventory buildups in the semiconductor industry, produce an oversupply of semiconductors. This can cause a reduced demand for capital equipment such as our products, negatively impacting our sales and level of profitability. Our revenue can vary significantly from one point in the cycle to another, making it difficult to manage the business, both when revenue is increasing and when it is decreasing. In addition, a substantial portion of our operating expenses do not fluctuate with changes in volume. Significant decreases in revenue can therefore have a disproportionate effect on profitability. In addition, reduced demand for our products and services may require Axcelis to implement cost reduction efforts, including restructuring activities, which may adversely affect Axcelis' ability to capitalize on opportunities that arise in the future.. 11. If we fail to compete successfully in the highly competitive semiconductor capital equipment industry, our sales and profitability will decline.. The ion implant segment is highly competitive and includes one company with substantially greater financial, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and customer service and support resources that may better position it to compete successfully, as well as several smaller companies that could provide innovative systems with technology that may have performance advantages. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the design and performance of their existing products and processes and to introduce new products and processes with improved price and performance characteristics. If we are unable to improve or introduce competing products when demanded by the markets, our business will be harmed. Finally, if we must lower prices to remain competitive without commensurate cost of goods savings, our gross margin and profitability will be adversely affected.. We are dependent on sales to a limited number of large customers; the loss of a significant customer or any reduction in orders from them could materially affect our sales.. Historically, we have sold a significant portion of our products and services to a limited number of semiconductor chip manufacturers.  In 2017, our top ten customers accounted for 73.3% of our net sales, in comparison to 70.2% and 76.8% in 2016 and 2015, respectively. None of our customers has entered into a long - term agreement requiring it to purchase our products. Although the composition of the group comprising our largest customers has varied from year to year, the loss of a significant customer or any reduction or delays in orders from any significant customer will adversely affect us. Consolidation of semiconductor chip manufacturers may result in the loss of a customer.. Axcelis is subject to the risks of operating internationally and we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from outside the United States, especially from Asia.. We are substantially dependent on sales of our products and services to customers outside the United States. International sales, including export sales from our U.S. manufacturing facilities to non - U.S. customers and sales by our non - U.S. subsidiaries, accounted for 84.9% of total revenue in 2017 in comparison to 80.0% of total revenue in 2016 and 84.8% in 2015. Ion implanter system shipments to Asian customers represented 82.6% of total shipment dollars in 2017 in comparison to 75.3% in 2016 and 78.9% in 2015. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue. The potential increased investment in semiconductor chip manufacturing capability in China is expected to create disruption in our markets, resulting in both risk and opportunity. Because of our dependence upon international sales, our results and prospects may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tunexpected changes in laws or regulations resulting in more burdensome governmental controls, tariffs, restrictions, embargoes or export license requirements;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tvolatility in currency exchange rates;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpolitical and economic instability;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in accounts receivable collections;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\textended payment terms beyond those customarily offered in the United States;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in managing suppliers, service providers or representatives outside the United States;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in staffing and managing foreign subsidiary operations; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpotential adverse tax consequences.. 12. We may not be able to maintain and expand our business if we are not able to hire, retain and integrate qualified personnel.. Our business depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified, experienced employees. There is substantial competition for experienced engineering, technical, financial, sales and marketing personnel in our industry. In particular, we must attract and retain highly skilled design and process engineers. Competition for such personnel is intense, particularly in the Boston metropolitan area, as well as in other locations around the world. If we are unable to retain our existing key personnel, or attract and retain additional qualified personnel, we may from time to time experience insufficient levels of staffing to fully develop, manufacture and market our products and perform services for our customers. As a result, our growth could be limited or we could fail to meet our delivery commitments or experience deterioration in service levels or decreased customer satisfaction, all of which could adversely affect our financial results.. Our dependence upon suppliers for many components and sub - assemblies could result in increased costs or delays in the manufacture and sale of our products.. We rely to a substantial extent on outside vendors to manufacture many of the components and sub - assemblies of our products. We obtain many of these components and sub - assemblies from a limited group of suppliers. Accordingly, based on situations outside of our control, we may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of required components on a timely basis, on price and other terms acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, we often quote prices to our customers and accept customer orders for our products before purchasing components and sub - assemblies from our suppliers. If our suppliers increase the cost of components or sub - assemblies, we may not have alternative sources of supply and may not be able to raise the price of our products to cover all or part of the increased cost of components, negatively impacting our gross margin.. The manufacture of some of these components and sub - assemblies is an extremely complex process and requires long lead times. As a result we could experience delays or shortages. If we are unable to obtain adequate and timely deliveries of our required components or sub - assemblies, we may have to seek alternative sources of supply or manufacture these components internally. This could delay our ability to manufacture or to ship our systems on a timely basis, causing us to lose sales, incur additional costs, delay new product introductions and suffer harm to our reputation.. Moreover, if actual demand for Axcelis' products is different than expected, Axcelis may purchase more or fewer parts than necessary or incur costs for canceling, postponing or expediting delivery of parts. If Axcelis purchases inventory in anticipation of customer demand that does not materialize, or if customers reduce or delay orders, Axcelis may incur excess inventory charges.. Our international operations involve currency risk.. Substantially all of our sales are billed in U.S. dollars, thereby reducing the impact of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates on our results. However, the aftermarket revenues of our non-U.S. subsidiaries, and most of the operating expenses of these non-U.S. subsidiaries, are received and incurred in local currencies.  The translation of these operating results into U.S. dollars in our Consolidated Statement of Operations can result in other income (expense).  Similarly, the translation of asset and liability values to U.S. dollars are recorded in stockholders' equity as an element of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).  Accordingly, fluctuations in exchange rates can impact reported revenues, expense, and profitability and asset values in our Consolidated Financial Statements. During the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 23.5% of our revenue was derived from foreign operations with this inherent risk. In addition, at December 31, 2017, our operations outside of the United States accounted for approximately 14.6% of our total assets, the majority of which was denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.. Axcelis is exposed to risks related to cybersecurity threats and incidents.. In the conduct of its business, Axcelis collects, uses, transmits and stores data on information technology systems. This data includes confidential information belonging to Axcelis or its customers or other business partners, as well as personally-identifiable information of individuals. As reported in the 2017 Verizon Data Breach Investigation Report, attempts to access confidential business information make up almost all of the cyber security risk for a. 13. manufacturing company, with 93% of the threat actors external to the company.  Verizon reported that most of the attacks are conducted by state-affiliated actors who are an \"advanced persistent threat.\"  Axcelis has been and expects to be subject to cybersecurity threats and incidents, ranging from employee error or misuse to individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to information systems to sophisticated and targeted measures known as advanced persistent threats, none of which have had a material impact on the Company to date. Axcelis devotes significant resources to network security, data encryption, employee training and other measures to protect its systems and data from unauthorized access or misuse. However, depending on their nature and scope, cybersecurity incidents could result in business disruption; the misappropriation, corruption or loss of confidential information and critical data (Axcelis' and that of third parties); reputational damage; litigation with third parties; diminution in the value of Axcelis' investment in research, development and engineering; data privacy issues; and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs.. Our proprietary technology may be vulnerable to efforts by competitors to challenge or design around, potentially reducing our market share.. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademark and trade secret laws, non-disclosure agreements and other intellectual property protection methods to protect our proprietary technology. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, our competitors may be able to challenge, design around or legitimately use the proprietary technology embedded in our systems or other technology or information used in our business. If this occurs, the value of our proprietary technology will be diminished. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate and our patents may not be sufficient to prevent others from using technology that is similar to or the same as our technology. Patents issued to us have been, or might be challenged, and might be invalidated or circumvented and any rights granted under our patents may not provide adequate protection to us. Our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate features of our products or design around patents that may be issued to us. As a result of these threats to our proprietary technology, we may have to resort to costly litigation to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights. Finally, all patents expire after a period of time (in the U.S., patents expire 20 years from the date of filing of the patent application). Our market share could be negatively impacted by the expiration of a patent which had created a barrier for our competitors.. Axcelis also has agreements with third parties for licensing of patented or proprietary technology with Axcelis as the licensor or the licensee. Termination of license agreements or claims of infringement with respect to such technology could have an adverse impact on our financial performance or ability to ship products with existing configurations.. We (or customers that we indemnify) might face intellectual property infringement claims or patent disputes that may be costly to resolve and, if resolved against us, could be very costly to us and prevent us from making and selling our systems.. From time to time, claims and proceedings have been or may be asserted against us relative to patent validity or infringement matters. We typically agree to indemnify our customers from liability to third parties for intellectual property infringement arising from the use of our products in their intended manner. Therefore, we occasionally receive notification from customers who believe that we owe them indemnification or other obligations related to infringement claims made against the customers by third parties. Our involvement in any patent dispute or other intellectual property dispute or action to protect trade secrets, even if the claims are without merit, could be very expensive and could divert the attention of our management. Adverse determinations in any litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to remove certain features from our products or seek costly licenses from third parties or prevent us from manufacturing and selling our systems. In addition, infringement indemnification clauses in system sale agreements may require us to take other actions or require us to provide certain remedies to customers who are exposed to indemnified liabilities. Any of these situations could have a material adverse effect on our business results.. If operations were disrupted at Axcelis' primary manufacturing facility, it would have a negative impact on our business.. We have one primary manufacturing facility located in Massachusetts. Its operations could be subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to natural disasters, work stoppages, operational facility. 14. constraints and terrorism. Such disruption could cause delays in shipments of products to our customers and could result in cancellation of orders or loss of customers, which could seriously harm our business."                                                                                                                                    
