[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information contained in this annual report. Some of these risks relate principally to our spin-off from our former Parent, while others relate principally to our business and the industry in which we operate or to the securities markets generally and ownership of our common stock. If any of these risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, and, as a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline.. Risks Relating to Our Industry and Our Business. As a result of operating losses and negative cash flows from operations, together with other factors, including the possibility that a covenant default or other event of default could cause certain of our indebtedness to become immediately due and payable (after the expiration of any applicable grace period), we may not have sufficient liquidity to sustain operations and to continue as a going concern.. We have experienced losses from operations in each of the past two years, have negative operating cash flows during the year ended December 31, 2017 and are dependent on our ability to raise capital in the time frame required in our United States Revolving Credit Facility (\"Revolver\") in order to avoid an event of default under our lending agreements. As a result of additional losses we recognized in the fourth quarter of 2017 related to an increase in structural steel repair costs on one of our European renewable energy contracts, we were not in compliance with certain financial covenants under our Revolver and our Second Lien Term Loan Facility (\"Second Lien\") as of December 31, 2017. On March 1, 2018, we obtained an agreement (the \"March 1, 2018 Amendment\") to amend our Revolver. The March 1, 2018 Amendment waived the financial covenant defaults that existed at December 31, 2017 under the Revolver, consented to our planned Rights Offering and made certain other modifications. The Second Lien contains a 180 day standstill period beginning on March 1, 2018 to resolve the event of default or repay the loan.. Absent additional waivers or cures, continued non-compliance with covenants contained in our Second Lien will constitute a. 10. Table of Contents. default under the Second Lien following the expiration of the 180 day standstill period. As a result, all indebtedness under the Second Lien could be declared immediately due and payable upon the occurrence of an event of default after expiration of the 180 day standstill period. It is possible we could obtain waivers from our lenders; however, our current liquidity risks raise substantial doubt about whether we will meet our obligations as they become due within one year after the date of issuance of this report.. As a result of these factors, there exists substantial doubt whether we will be able to continue as a going concern. The accompanying consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis and do not include any adjustments that might result from uncertainty about our ability to continue as a going concern, other than the reclassification of certain long-term debt to current liabilities. The report from our independent registered public accounting firm on our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 includes a paragraph that summarizes the salient facts and conditions that raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern.. There can be no assurance that our plan to improve our operating performance and financial position will be successful or that we will be able to obtain additional financing on commercially reasonable terms or at all including, without limitation, our ability to successfully complete the Rights Offering and refinance our Second Lien. As a result, our liquidity and ability to timely pay our obligations when due could be adversely affected. Furthermore, our creditors may resist renegotiation or lengthening of payment and other terms through legal action or otherwise. If we are not able to timely, successfully or efficiently implement the strategies that we are pursuing to improve our operating performance and financial position, we may not have sufficient liquidity to sustain operations and to continue as a going concern.. We derive substantial revenues from electric power generating companies and other steam-using industries, with demand for our products and services depending on spending in these historically cyclical industries. Additionally, recent legislative and regulatory developments relating to clean air legislation are affecting industry plans for spending on coal-fired power plants within the United States and elsewhere.. The demand for power generation products and services depends primarily on the spending of electric power generating companies and other steam-using industries and expenditures by original equipment manufacturers. These expenditures are influenced by such factors as:. • prices for electricity, along with the cost of production and distribution;. • prices for natural resources such as coal and natural gas;. • demand for electricity and other end products of steam-generating facilities;. • availability of other sources of electricity or other end products;. • requirements of environmental legislation and regulations, including potential requirements applicable to carbon dioxide emissions;. • impact of potential regional, state, national and/or global requirements to significantly limit or reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the future;. • level of capacity utilization and associated operations and maintenance expenditures of power generating companies and other steam-using facilities;. • requirements for maintenance and upkeep at operating power plants and other steam-using facilities to combat the accumulated effects of wear and tear;. • ability of electric generating companies and other steam users to raise capital; and. • relative prices of fuels used in boilers, compared to prices for fuels used in gas turbines and other alternative forms of generation.. We estimate that 27%, 47% and 50% of our consolidated revenues in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, was related to coal-fired power plants. A material decline in spending by electric power generating companies and other steam-using industries over a sustained period of time could materially and adversely affect the demand for our power generation products and services and, therefore, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Coal-fired power plants have been scrutinized by environmental groups and government regulators over the emissions of potentially harmful pollutants. The recent economic environment and uncertainty concerning new environmental legislation or replacement rules or regulations in the United States and elsewhere has caused many of our major customers, principally electric utilities, to delay making substantial expenditures for new plants, as well as upgrades to existing power plants.. 11. Table of Contents. Demand for our products and services is vulnerable to economic downturns and industry conditions.. Demand for our products and services has been, and we expect that demand will continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations due to a variety of factors beyond our control, including economic and industry conditions. These factors include, but are not limited to: the cyclical nature of the industries we serve, inflation, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, volatile oil and natural gas prices, low business and consumer confidence, high unemployment and energy conservation measures.. Unfavorable economic conditions may lead customers to delay, curtail or cancel proposed or existing contracts, which may decrease the overall demand for our products and services and adversely affect our results of operations.. In addition, our customers may find it more difficult to raise capital in the future due to limitations on the availability of credit, increases in interest rates and other factors affecting the federal, municipal and corporate credit markets. Also, our customers may demand more favorable pricing terms and find it increasingly difficult to timely pay invoices for our products and services, which would impact our future cash flows and liquidity. Inflation or significant changes in interest rates could reduce the demand for our products and services. Any inability to timely collect our invoices may lead to an increase in our accounts receivable and potentially to increased write-offs of uncollectible invoices. If the economy weakens, or customer spending declines, then our backlog, revenues, net income and overall financial condition could deteriorate.. Our backlog is subject to unexpected adjustments and cancellations and may not be a reliable indicator of future revenues or earnings.. There can be no assurance that the revenues projected in our backlog will be realized or, if realized, will result in profits. Because of contract cancellations or changes in scope and schedule, we cannot predict with certainty when or if backlog will be performed. In addition, even where a contract proceeds as scheduled, it is possible that contracted parties may default and fail to pay amounts owed to us or poor contract performance could increase the cost associated with a contract. Delays, suspensions, cancellations, payment defaults, scope changes and poor contract execution could materially reduce or eliminate the revenues and profits that we actually realize from contracts in backlog.. Reductions in our backlog due to cancellation or modification by a customer or for other reasons may adversely affect, potentially to a material extent, the revenues and earnings we actually receive from contracts included in our backlog. Many of the contracts in our backlog provide for cancellation fees in the event customers cancel contracts. These cancellation fees usually provide for reimbursement of our out-of-pocket costs, revenues for work performed prior to cancellation and a varying percentage of the profits we would have realized had the contract been completed. However, we typically have no contractual right upon cancellation to the total revenues reflected in our backlog. Contracts may remain in our backlog for extended periods of time. If we experience significant contract terminations, suspensions or scope adjustments to contracts reflected in our backlog, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted.. We are subject to risks associated with contractual pricing in our industry, including the risk that, if our actual costs exceed the costs we estimate on our fixed-price contracts, our profitability will decline, and we may suffer losses.. We are engaged in a highly competitive industry, and we have priced a number of our contracts on a fixed-price basis. Our actual costs could exceed our projections, as was the case recently with several large contracts in the Renewable segment. We attempt to cover the increased costs of anticipated changes in labor, material and service costs of long-term contracts, either through estimates of cost increases, which are reflected in the original contract price, or through price escalation clauses. Despite these attempts, however, the cost and gross profit we realize on a fixed-price contract could vary materially from the estimated amounts because of supplier, contractor and subcontractor performance, changes in job conditions, variations in labor and equipment productivity and increases in the cost of labor and raw materials, particularly steel, over the term of the contract. These variations and the risks generally inherent in our industry may result in actual revenues or costs being different from those we originally estimated and may result in reduced profitability or losses on contracts. Some of these risks include:. • difficulties encountered on our large-scale contracts related to the procurement of materials or due to schedule disruptions, equipment performance failures, engineering and design complexity, unforeseen site conditions, rejection clauses in customer contracts or other factors that may result in additional costs to us, reductions in revenue, claims or disputes;. 12. Table of Contents. • our inability to obtain compensation for additional work we perform or expenses we incur as a result of our customers or subcontractors providing deficient design or engineering information or equipment or materials;. • requirements to pay liquidated damages upon our failure to meet schedule or performance requirements of our contracts; and. • difficulties in engaging third-party subcontractors, equipment manufacturers or materials suppliers or failures by third-party subcontractors, equipment manufacturers or materials suppliers to perform could result in contract delays and cause us to incur additional costs.. Our contractual performance may be affected by third parties' and subcontractors' failure to meet schedule, quality and other requirements on our contracts, which could increase our costs, scope, technical difficulty or in extreme cases, our ability to meet contractual requirements.. We conduct significant portions of our business by engaging in long-term contracts related to highly complex, customized equipment or facilities for electrical generation, industrial processes, and/or environmental compliance. The complexity of these contracts generally necessitates the participation of others on this contract, including subcontractors, equipment or part manufacturers, partner companies, other companies with whom we do not have contractual relationships, customers, financing organizations, regulators and others. While we endeavor to limit our liability to matters within our control, not all scenarios can be foreseen and we may become subject to the risk of others' performance that may or may not be within our control or influence. Delays, changes or failures of others, including subcontractors, could subject us to additional costs, delays, technical specification changes, contractual penalties or other matters for which we may be unable to obtain compensation, or compensation may not be sufficient. In extreme cases, the direct or indirect effects of such matters may cause us to be unable to fulfill our contractual requirements.. For example, we have contracts to construct several renewable energy plants in the United Kingdom. These contracts have suffered delays, additional cost and contractual penalties. The complexity of these contracts required us to subcontract matters, such as structural engineering, to other companies that have the appropriate technical expertise. In September 2017, a structural steel issue was discovered at one of these plants, which management believes is the result of an engineering error by a subcontractor. The failure resulted in work being stopped at the plant with the failure and at two other plants under construction where failure had not occurred, but had used a similar design by the same subcontractor. In each case, additional engineering analysis and remediation was required, resulting in additional costs, schedule delays and contractual penalties, all of which were significantly greater at the plant where failure occurred. Through December 31, 2017, $42 million of additional costs had been recorded related to the effects of this engineering error across the three plants. In each case, the engineering assessment, remediation and safety plans required approval of the subcontractor, customer, our contract partner and the respective analysis independent technical experts from each. In the case of the plant where structural failure occurred, this process to agree on the appropriate structural remediation and plan to implement the remediation was lengthy and resulted in a more significant delay. These contracts include rejection clauses that give the customers the option to reject the deliverable, recover all monies paid to us and our partner, and require us to restore the property to its original state if contractual milestones are not met by a certain date. While we expect to be able to accelerate our progress and take other remedial actions if necessary to avoid giving a customer the option to exercise its rejection clause, failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to satisfy obligations under other contracts or comply with our debt covenants. Any insurance coverage may be insufficient, or the timing of any insurance proceeds may not meet our liquidity requirements.. We are exposed to credit risk and may incur losses as a result of such exposure.. We conduct our business by obtaining orders that generate cash flows in the form of advances, contract progress payments and final balances in accordance with the underlying contractual terms. We are thus exposed to potential losses resulting from contractual counterparties' failure to meet their obligations. As a result, the failure by customers to meet their payment obligations, or a mere delay in making those payments, could reduce our liquidity and increase the need to resort to other sources of financing, with possible adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In some cases, we have joint and several liability with consortium partners in our projects, such as the renewable energy plants in the United Kingdom, and we may be subject to additional losses if our partners are unable to meet their contractual obligations.. In addition, the deterioration of economic conditions or negative trends in the credit markets could have a negative impact on relationships with customers and our ability to collect on trade receivables, with possible adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 13. Table of Contents. Our use of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting could result in volatility in our results of operations.. We generally recognize revenues and profits under our long-term contracts on a percentage-of-completion basis. Accordingly, we review contract price and cost estimates regularly as the work progresses and reflect adjustments proportionate to the percentage of completion in income in the period when we revise those estimates. To the extent these adjustments result in a reduction or an elimination of previously reported profits with respect to a contract, we would recognize a charge against current earnings, which could be material. Our current estimates of our contract costs and the profitability of our long-term contracts, although reasonably reliable when made, could change as a result of the uncertainties associated with these types of contracts, and if adjustments to overall contract costs are significant, the reductions or reversals of previously recorded revenue and profits could be material in future periods.. If our co-venturers fail to perform their contractual obligations on a contract or if we fail to coordinate effectively with our co-venturers, we could be exposed to legal liability, loss of reputation and reduced profit on the contract.. We often perform contracts jointly with third parties. For example, we enter into contracting consortia and other contractual arrangements to bid for and perform jointly on large contracts. Success on these joint contracts depends in part on whether our co-venturers fulfill their contractual obligations satisfactorily. If any one or more of these third parties fail to perform their contractual obligations satisfactorily, we may be required to make additional investments and provide added services in order to compensate for that failure. If we are unable to adequately address any such performance issues, then our customer may exercise its right to terminate a joint contract, exposing us to legal liability, loss of reputation and reduced profit.. Our collaborative arrangements also involve risks that participating parties may disagree on business decisions and strategies. These disagreements could result in delays, additional costs and risks of litigation. Our inability to successfully maintain existing collaborative relationships or enter into new collaborative arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We could be subject to changes in tax rates or tax law, adoption of new regulations or changing interpretations of existing law or exposure to additional tax liabilities in excess of accrued amounts.. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. A change in tax laws, treaties or regulations, or their interpretation, in any country in which we operate could result in a higher tax rate on our earnings, which could have a material impact on our earnings and cash flows from operations. Recently enacted tax reform legislation has made substantial changes to United States tax law, including a reduction in the corporate tax rate, a limitation on deductibility of interest expense, a limitation on the use of net operating losses to offset future taxable income, the allowance of immediate expensing of capital expenditures and deemed repatriation of foreign earnings. This legislation has resulted in, and may in the future result in additional effects on us, some of which may be adverse. For example, the reduction in the corporate tax rate has resulted in a revaluation of our existing deferred tax assets, and consequently an increase in our income tax expense for 2017. The magnitude of the net impact remains uncertain at this time and is subject to any other regulatory or administrative developments, including any regulations or other guidance promulgated by the United States Internal Revenue Service.. In addition, significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain, and we are regularly subject to audit by tax authorities. Although we believe that our tax estimates and tax positions are reasonable, they could be materially affected by many factors including the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation, the introduction of new tax accounting standards, legislation, regulations and related interpretations, our global mix of earnings, the realizability of deferred tax assets and changes in uncertain tax positions. A significant increase in our tax rate could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and liquidity.. Our ability to use net operating losses and certain tax credits to reduce future tax payments could be limited if we experience an \"ownership change\".. Our NOL carryforwards and certain tax credits may become subject to annual limitation if we experience an \"ownership change\". In general, an \"ownership change\" occurs if 5% shareholders increase their collective ownership of our company by more than 50 percentage points during the relevant testing period. If an ownership change occurs, our ability to use NOL carryforwards and certain credits to reduce tax payments is generally limited to an annual amount based on (i) the fair market value of our stock immediately prior to the ownership change multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt interest rate.. 14. Table of Contents. Our business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including physical and cybersecurity threats, and other disruptions.. We face various security threats, including cyber threats, threats to the physical security of our facilities and infrastructure, and threats from terrorist acts, as well as the potential for business disruptions associated with these threats. Although we utilize a combination of tailored and industry standard security measures and technology to monitor and mitigate these threats, we cannot guarantee that these measures and technology will be sufficient to prevent security threats from materializing.. We are increasingly dependent on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic and financial information, to manage and support a variety of business processes and activities and to comply with regulatory, legal and tax requirements. We have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to cyber-based attacks and other attempts to threaten our information technology systems and the software we sell. A cyber-based attack could include attempts to gain unauthorized access to our proprietary information and attacks from malicious third parties using sophisticated, targeted methods to circumvent firewalls, encryption and other security defenses, including hacking, fraud, trickery or other forms of deception. If any of our significant information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption, or shutdown and our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, the services we provide to customers, the value of our investment in research and development efforts and other intellectual property, our product sales, financial condition, results of operations and stock price may be materially and adversely affected, and we could experience delays in reporting our financial results. In addition, there is a risk of business interruption, litigation risks, and reputational damage from leakage of confidential information or the software we sell being compromised. The costs related to cyber or other security threats or disruptions may not be fully insured or indemnified by other means.. In order to address risks to our information systems, we continue to make investments in technologies and training of company personnel. From time to time we may replace and/or upgrade current financial, human resources and other information technology systems. These activities subject us to inherent costs and risks associated with replacing and updating these systems, including potential disruption of our internal control structure, substantial capital expenditures, demands on management time and other risks of delays or difficulties in transitioning to new systems or of integrating new systems into our current systems. Our systems implementations and upgrades may not result in productivity improvements at the levels anticipated, or at all. In addition, the implementation of new technology systems may cause disruptions in our business operations. Such disruption and any other information technology system disruptions, and our ability to mitigate those disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and stock price.. We rely on intellectual property law and confidentiality agreements to protect our intellectual property. We also rely on intellectual property we license from third parties. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights, or our inability to obtain or renew licenses to use intellectual property of third parties, could adversely affect our business.. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary information and other intellectual property. Our intellectual property could be stolen, challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. In addition, effective intellectual property protection may be limited or unavailable in some foreign countries where we operate.. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights may result in the loss of valuable technologies or adversely affect our competitive business position. We rely significantly on proprietary technology, information, processes and know-how that are not subject to patent or copyright protection. We seek to protect this information through trade secret or confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, subcontractors or other parties, as well as through other security measures. These agreements and security measures may be inadequate to deter or prevent misappropriation of our confidential information. In the event of an infringement of our intellectual property rights, a breach of a confidentiality agreement or divulgence of proprietary information, we may not have adequate legal remedies to protect our intellectual property. Litigation to determine the scope of intellectual property rights, even if ultimately successful, could be costly and could divert management's attention away from other aspects of our business. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors.. In some instances, we have augmented our technology base by licensing the proprietary intellectual property of third parties. In the future, we may not be able to obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. 15. Table of Contents. Maintaining adequate bonding and letter of credit capacity is necessary for us to successfully bid on and win various contracts.. In line with industry practice, we are often required to post standby letters of credit and surety bonds to support contractual obligations to customers as well as other obligations. These letters of credit and bonds generally indemnify customers should we fail to perform our obligations under the applicable contracts. If a letter of credit or bond is required for a particular contract and we are unable to obtain it due to insufficient liquidity or other reasons, we will not be able to pursue that contract. We utilize bonding facilities, but, as is typically the case, the issuance of bonds under each of those facilities is at the surety's sole discretion. Moreover, due to events that affect the insurance and bonding and credit markets generally, bonding and letters of credit may be more difficult to obtain in the future or may only be available at significant additional cost. There can be no assurance that letters of credit or bonds from sources outside of our contractually committed Credit Agreement will continue to be available to us on reasonable terms. The inclusion of a \"going concern\" explanatory paragraph in the auditor's report covering our audited consolidated financial statements contained herein may prevent us from obtaining bonding and letters of credit from sources outside of our contractually committed Credit Agreement on reasonable terms, or at all. Our inability to obtain adequate letters of credit and bonding and, as a result, to bid on new work could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2017, we had $269.1 million in letters of credit and bank guarantees and $378.8 million in surety bonds outstanding. Of these amounts, $7.4 million of financial letters of credit and $123.7 million of performance letters of credit were outstanding under the United States credit agreement.. Our amended United States credit facility could restrict our operations.. The terms of our amended United States credit agreement impose various restrictions and covenants on us that could have adverse consequences, including limiting our:. • flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or economic, regulatory and industry conditions;. • ability to invest in joint ventures or acquire other companies;. • ability to sell assets;. • ability to pay dividends to our stockholders;. • ability to repurchase shares of our common stock; and. • ability to borrow additional funds.. In addition, our amended United States credit facility requires us to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios. Our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will continue to meet the financial ratios.. During the covenant relief period under our amended United States credit facility, we are limited to $300.0 million of borrowings under that facility.. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our amended United States credit facility may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. A breach of any of these covenants could result in an event of default under our amended United States credit facility, and we would not be able to access our credit facility for additional borrowings and letters of credit while any default exists. Upon the occurrence of such an event of default, all amounts outstanding under our amended United States credit facility could be declared to be immediately due and payable and all applicable commitments to extend further credit could be terminated. If indebtedness under our amended credit facility is accelerated, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay the indebtedness. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our amended credit facility and any future financing agreements may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities.. Our evaluation of strategic alternatives for certain businesses and non-core assets may not be successful.. We have initiated a process to evaluate strategic alternatives for business lines, such as MEGTEC and Universal, as well as certain non-core assets. These strategic alternatives are being evaluated as options to improve the company's capital structure. There can be no assurance that these on-going strategic evaluations will result in the identification or consummation of any transaction. We may incur substantial expenses associated with identifying and evaluating potential strategic alternatives. The. 16. Table of Contents. process of exploring strategic alternatives may be time consuming and disruptive to our business operations, and if we are unable to effectively manage the process, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We also cannot assure that any potential transaction or other strategic alternative, if identified, evaluated and consummated, will prove to be beneficial to stockholders.  Any potential transaction would be dependent upon a number of factors that may be beyond our control, including, among other factors, market conditions, industry trends, the interest of third parties in our business, the availability of financing to potential buyers on reasonable terms, and the consent of our lenders.. In addition, while this strategic evaluation is underway, we are exposed to risks and uncertainties, including potential difficulties in retaining and attracting key employees, distraction of our management from other important business activities, and potential difficulties in establishing and maintaining relationships with customers, suppliers, lenders, sureties and other third parties, all of which could harm our business.. Our business strategy includes development and commercialization of new technologies to support our growth, which requires significant investment and involves various risks and uncertainties. These new technologies may not achieve desired commercial or financial results.. Our future growth will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to innovate by developing and commercializing new product and service offerings. Investments in new technologies involve varying degrees of uncertainties and risk. Commercial success depends on many factors, including the levels of innovation, the development costs and the availability of capital resources to fund those costs, the levels of competition from others developing similar or other competing technologies, our ability to obtain or maintain government permits or certifications, our ability to license or purchase new technologies from third parties, the effectiveness of production, distribution and marketing efforts, and the costs to customers to deploy and provide support for the new technologies. We may not achieve significant revenues from new product and service investments for a number of years, if at all. Moreover, new products and services may not be profitable, and, even if they are profitable, our operating margins from new products and services may not be as high as the margins we have experienced historically. In addition, new technologies may not be patentable and, as a result, we may face increased competition.. Our operations are subject to operating risks, which could expose us to potentially significant professional liability, product liability, warranty and other claims. Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all of our significant risks or our insurers may deny coverage of material losses we incur, which could adversely affect our profitability and overall financial condition.. We engineer, construct and perform services in large industrial facilities where accidents or system failures can have significant consequences. Risks inherent in our operations include:. • accidents resulting in injury or the loss of life or property;. • environmental or toxic tort claims, including delayed manifestation claims for personal injury or loss of life;. • pollution or other environmental mishaps;. • adverse weather conditions;. • mechanical failures;. • property losses;. • business interruption due to political action or other reasons; and. • labor stoppages.. Any accident or failure at a site where we have provided products or services could result in significant professional liability, product liability, warranty and other claims against us, regardless of whether our products or services caused the incident. We have been, and in the future we may be, named as defendants in lawsuits asserting large claims as a result of litigation arising from events such as those listed above.. We endeavor to identify and obtain in established markets insurance agreements to cover significant risks and liabilities. Insurance against some of the risks inherent in our operations is either unavailable or available only at rates or on terms that we consider uneconomical. Also, catastrophic events customarily result in decreased coverage limits, more limited coverage, additional exclusions in coverage, increased premium costs and increased deductibles and self-insured retentions. Risks that we have frequently found difficult to cost-effectively insure against include, but are not limited to, business interruption, property losses from wind, flood and earthquake events, war and confiscation or seizure of property in some areas of the. 17. Table of Contents. world, pollution liability, liabilities related to occupational health exposures (including asbestos), the failure, misuse or unavailability of our information systems, the failure of security measures designed to protect our information systems from security breaches, and liability related to risk of loss of our work in progress and customer-owned materials in our care, custody and control. Depending on competitive conditions and other factors, we endeavor to obtain contractual protection against uninsured risks from our customers. When obtained, such contractual indemnification protection may not be as broad as we desire or may not be supported by adequate insurance maintained by the customer. Such insurance or contractual indemnity protection may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances or against all hazards to which we may be subject. A successful claim for which we are not insured or for which we are underinsured could have a material adverse effect on us. Additionally, disputes with insurance carriers over coverage may affect the timing of cash flows and, if litigation with the carrier becomes necessary, an outcome unfavorable to us may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary provides workers' compensation, employer's liability, commercial general liability, professional liability and automotive liability insurance to support our operations. We may also have business reasons in the future to have our insurance subsidiary accept other risks which we cannot or do not wish to transfer to outside insurance companies. These risks may be considerable in any given year or cumulatively. Our insurance subsidiary has not provided significant amounts of insurance to unrelated parties. Claims as a result of our operations could adversely impact the ability of our insurance subsidiary to respond to all claims presented.. Additionally, upon the February 22, 2006 effectiveness of the settlement relating to the Chapter 11 proceedings involving several of our subsidiaries, most of our subsidiaries contributed substantial insurance rights to the asbestos personal injury trust, including rights to (1) certain pre-1979 primary and excess insurance coverages and (2) certain of our 1979-1986 excess insurance coverage. These insurance rights provided coverage for, among other things, asbestos and other personal injury claims, subject to the terms and conditions of the policies. The contribution of these insurance rights was made in exchange for the agreement on the part of the representatives of the asbestos claimants, including the representative of future claimants, to the entry of a permanent injunction, pursuant to Section 524(g) of the United States Bankruptcy Code, to channel to the asbestos trust all asbestos-related claims against our subsidiaries and former subsidiaries arising out of, resulting from or attributable to their operations, and the implementation of related releases and indemnification provisions protecting those subsidiaries and their affiliates from future liability for such claims. Although we are not aware of any significant, unresolved claims against our subsidiaries and former subsidiaries that are not subject to the channeling injunction and that relate to the periods during which such excess insurance coverage related, with the contribution of these insurance rights to the asbestos personal injury trust, it is possible that we could have underinsured or uninsured exposure for non-derivative asbestos claims or other personal injury or other claims that would have been insured under these coverages had the insurance rights not been contributed to the asbestos personal injury trust.. We are subject to government regulations that may adversely affect our future operations.. Many aspects of our operations and properties are affected by political developments and are subject to both domestic and foreign governmental regulations, including those relating to:. • constructing and manufacturing power generation products;. • currency conversions and repatriation;. • clean air and other environmental protection legislation;. • taxation of foreign earnings;. • transactions in or with foreign countries or officials; and. • use of local employees and suppliers.. In addition, a substantial portion of the demand for our products and services is from electric power generating companies and other steam-using customers. The demand for power generation products and services can be influenced by governmental legislation setting requirements for utilities related to operations, emissions and environmental impacts. The legislative process is unpredictable and includes a platform that continuously seeks to increase the restrictions on power producers. Potential legislation limiting emissions from power plants, including carbon dioxide, could affect our markets and the demand for our products and services related to power generation.. We cannot determine the extent to which our future operations and earnings may be affected by new legislation, new regulations or changes in existing regulations.. 18. Table of Contents. Our business and our customers' businesses are required to obtain, and to comply with, national, state and local government permits and approvals.. Our business and our customers' businesses are required to obtain, and to comply with, national, state and local government permits and approvals. Any of these permits or approvals may be subject to denial, revocation or modification under various circumstances. Failure to obtain or comply with the conditions of permits or approvals may adversely affect our operations by temporarily suspending our activities or curtailing our work and may subject us to penalties and other sanctions. Although existing licenses are routinely renewed by various regulators, renewal could be denied or jeopardized by various factors, including:. • failure to comply with environmental and safety laws and regulations or permit conditions;. • local community, political or other opposition;. • executive action; and. • legislative action.. In addition, if new environmental legislation or regulations are enacted or implemented, or existing laws or regulations are amended or are interpreted or enforced differently, we or our customers may be required to obtain additional operating permits or approvals. Our inability or our customers' inability to obtain, and to comply with, the permits and approvals required for our business could have a material adverse effect on us.. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and legislation that may become more stringent in the future.. Our operations and properties are subject to a wide variety of increasingly complex and stringent foreign, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those governing discharges into the air and water, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes, the remediation of soil and groundwater contaminated by hazardous substances and the health and safety of employees. Sanctions for noncompliance may include revocation of permits, corrective action orders, administrative or civil penalties and criminal prosecution. Some environmental laws provide for strict, joint and several liability for remediation of spills and other releases of hazardous substances, as well as damage to natural resources. In addition, companies may be subject to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as a result of alleged exposure to hazardous substances. Such laws and regulations may also expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by others or for our acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time such acts were performed.. We cannot predict all of the environmental requirements or circumstances that will exist in the future but anticipate that environmental control and protection standards will become increasingly stringent and costly. Based on our experience to date, we do not currently anticipate any material adverse effect on our business or financial condition as a result of future compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations. However, future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations or their interpretation, more vigorous enforcement policies of regulatory agencies or stricter or different interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may require additional expenditures by us, which may be material. Accordingly, we can provide no assurance that we will not incur significant environmental compliance costs in the future.. Our operations involve the handling, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials, and environmental laws and regulations and civil liability for contamination of the environment or related personal injuries may result in increases in our operating costs and capital expenditures and decreases in our earnings and cash flows.. Our operations involve the handling, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials. Failure to properly handle these materials could pose a health risk to humans or wildlife and could cause personal injury and property damage (including environmental contamination). If an accident were to occur, its severity could be significantly affected by the volume of the materials and the speed of corrective action taken by emergency response personnel, as well as other factors beyond our control, such as weather and wind conditions. Actions taken in response to an accident could result in significant costs.. Governmental requirements relating to the protection of the environment, including solid waste management, air quality, water quality and cleanup of contaminated sites, have in the past had a substantial impact on our operations. These requirements are complex and subject to frequent change. In some cases, they can impose liability for the entire cost of cleanup on any responsible party without regard to negligence or fault and impose liability on us for the conduct of others or conditions others have caused, or for our acts that complied with all applicable requirements when we performed them. Our compliance with amended, new or more stringent requirements, stricter interpretations of existing requirements or the future discovery of contamination may require us to make material expenditures or subject us to liabilities that we currently do not. 19. Table of Contents. anticipate. Such expenditures and liabilities may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, some of our operations and the operations of predecessor owners of some of our properties have exposed us to civil claims by third parties for liability resulting from alleged contamination of the environment or personal injuries caused by releases of hazardous substances into the environment.. In our contracts, we seek to protect ourselves from liability associated with accidents, but there can be no assurance that such contractual limitations on liability will be effective in all cases or that our or our customers' insurance will cover all the liabilities we have assumed under those contracts. The costs of defending against a claim arising out of a contamination incident or precautionary evacuation, and any damages awarded as a result of such a claim, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We maintain insurance coverage as part of our overall risk management strategy and due to requirements to maintain specific coverage in our financing agreements and in many of our contracts. These policies do not protect us against all liabilities associated with accidents or for unrelated claims. In addition, comparable insurance may not continue to be available to us in the future at acceptable prices, or at all.. We could be adversely affected by violations of the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Anti-Bribery Act or other anti-bribery laws.. The United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the \"FCPA\") generally prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-United States government officials. Our training program, audit process and policies mandate compliance with the FCPA, the UK Anti-Bribery Act (the \"UK Act\") and other anti-bribery laws. We operate in some parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and, in some circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. If we are found to be liable for violations of the FCPA, the UK Act or other anti-bribery laws (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others, including agents, promoters or employees of our joint ventures), we could suffer from civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions.. We conduct a portion of our operations through joint venture entities, over which we may have limited ability to influence.. We currently have equity interests in several significant joint ventures, which contributed income (losses) of $(9.9) million, $16.4 million and $(0.2) million to equity in income (loss) from investees for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and may enter into additional joint venture arrangements in the future. Our influence over some of these entities may be limited. Even in those joint ventures over which we do exercise significant influence, we are often required to consider the interests of our joint venture partners in connection with major decisions concerning the operations of the joint ventures. In any case, differences in views among the joint venture participants may result in delayed decisions or disputes. We also cannot control the actions of our joint venture participants. We sometimes have joint and several liabilities with our joint venture partners under the applicable contracts for joint venture contracts and we cannot be certain that our partners will be able to satisfy any potential liability that could arise. These factors could potentially harm the business and operations of a joint venture and, in turn, our business and operations.. Operating through joint ventures in which we are minority holders results in us having limited control over many decisions made with respect to business practices, contracts and internal controls relating to contracts. These joint ventures may not be subject to the same requirements regarding internal controls and internal control over financial reporting that we follow. As a result, internal control problems may arise with respect to the joint ventures that could adversely affect our ability to respond to requests or contractual obligations to customers or to meet the internal control requirements to which we are otherwise subject.. Our joint ventures located in countries outside of the United States are subject to various risks and uncertainties associated with emerging markets, including bribery and corruption, changes in laws, rules and regulations, fluctuations in demand, labor unrest, and the impact of regional and global business conditions generally.  To the extent any of  these factors has a material adverse impact on the joint venture or its future operations, our investment may become impaired.  With respect to each joint venture, we, or our joint venture partner, may decide to change the strategic direction of the joint venture, which could adversely affect its sales, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, our arrangements involving joint ventures may restrict us from gaining access to the cash flows or assets of these entities, including when we determine to exit a joint venture. In some cases, our joint ventures have governmentally imposed restrictions on their abilities to transfer funds. 20. Table of Contents. to us. At December 31, 2017, our total investment in joint ventures was $43.3 million, which included $26.0 million related to a joint venture in India and $16.6 million related to a joint venture in China that was sold in the early part of 2018.. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors.. Some of our competitors or potential competitors have greater financial or other resources than we have and in some cases are government supported. Our operations may be adversely affected if our current competitors or new market entrants introduce new products or services with better features, performance, prices or other characteristics than those of our products and services. Furthermore, we operate in industries where capital investment is critical. We may not be able to obtain as much purchasing and borrowing leverage and access to capital for investment as other companies, which may impair our ability to compete against competitors or potential competitors.. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel, or our failure to attract, assimilate and retain trained personnel in the future, could disrupt our operations and result in loss of revenues or profits.. Our success depends on the continued active participation of our executive officers and key operating personnel. The unexpected loss of the services of any one of these persons could adversely affect our operations.. Our operations require the services of employees having the technical training and experience necessary to obtain the proper operational results. As such, our operations depend, to a considerable extent, on the continuing availability of such personnel. If we should suffer any material loss of personnel to competitors, retirement or other reasons, or be unable to employ additional or replacement personnel with the requisite level of training and experience to adequately operate our business, our operations could be adversely affected. While we believe our wage rates are competitive and our relationships with our employees are satisfactory, a significant increase in the wages paid by other employers could result in a reduction in our workforce, increases in wage rates, or both. Additionally, we froze pension plan benefit accruals at the end of 2015, which could also result in incremental turnover in our workforce. If any of these events occurred for a significant period of time, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely impacted.. Negotiations with labor unions and possible work stoppages and other labor problems could divert management's attention and disrupt operations. In addition, new collective bargaining agreements or amendments to existing agreements could increase our labor costs and operating expenses.. A significant number of our employees are members of labor unions. If we are unable to negotiate acceptable new contracts with our unions from time to time, we could experience strikes or other work stoppages by the affected employees. If any such strikes or other work stoppages were to occur, we could experience a significant disruption of operations. In addition, negotiations with unions could divert management attention. New union contracts could result in increased operating costs, as a result of higher wages or benefit expenses, for both union and nonunion employees. If nonunion employees were to unionize, we could experience higher ongoing labor costs.. Pension and medical expenses associated with our retirement benefit plans may fluctuate significantly depending on a number of factors, and we may be required to contribute cash to meet underfunded pension obligations.. A substantial portion of our current and retired employee population is covered by pension and postretirement benefit plans, the costs and funding requirements of which depend on our various assumptions, including estimates of rates of return on benefit-related assets, discount rates for future payment obligations, rates of future cost growth, mortality assumptions and trends for future costs. Variances from these estimates could have a material adverse effect on us. Our policy to recognize these variances annually through mark to market accounting could result in volatility in our results of operations, which could be material. As of December 31, 2017, our defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans were underfunded by approximately $258.8 million. In addition, certain of these postretirement benefit plans were collectively bargained, and our ability to curtail or change the benefits provided may be impacted by contractual provisions set forth in the relevant union agreements and other plan documents. We also participate in various multi-employer pension plans in the United States and Canada under union and industry agreements that generally provide defined benefits to employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Absent an applicable exemption, a contributor to a United States multi-employer plan is liable, upon termination or withdrawal from a plan, for its proportionate share of the plan's underfunded vested liability. Funding requirements for benefit obligations of these multi-employer pension plans are subject to certain regulatory requirements, and we may be required to make cash contributions which may be material to one or more of these plans to satisfy certain. 21. Table of Contents. underfunded benefit obligations. See Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 in this annual report for additional information regarding our pension and postretirement benefit plan obligations.. Our international operations are subject to political, economic and other uncertainties not generally encountered in our domestic operations.. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues and equity in income of investees from international operations, and we intend to continue to expand our international operations and customer base as part of our growth strategy. Our revenues from sales to customers located outside of the United States represented approximately 51%, 46% and 41% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Operating in international markets requires significant resources and management attention and subjects us to political, economic and regulatory risks that are not generally encountered in our United States operations. These include:. • risks of war, terrorism and civil unrest;. • expropriation, confiscation or nationalization of our assets;. • renegotiation or nullification of our existing contracts;. • changing political conditions and changing laws and policies affecting trade and investment;. • overlap of different tax structures; and. • risk of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.. Various foreign jurisdictions have laws limiting the right and ability of foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures to pay dividends and remit earnings to affiliated companies. Our international operations sometimes face the additional risks of fluctuating currency values, hard currency shortages and controls of foreign currency exchange. If we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. These and other factors may have a material impact on our international operations or our business as a whole.. International uncertainties and fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies could harm our profitability.. We have international operations primarily in Europe and Canada. For the year ended December 31, 2017, international operations accounted for approximately 51% of our total revenues. Our significant international subsidiaries may have sales and cost of sales in different currencies as well as other transactions that are denominated in currencies other than their functional currency. We do not currently engage in currency hedging activities to limit the risks of currency fluctuations. Consequently, fluctuations in foreign currencies could have a negative impact on the profitability of our global operations, which would harm our financial results and cash flows.. Natural disasters or other events beyond our control could adversely impact our business.. Natural disasters, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, hurricanes, floods, tornadoes, or other events could adversely impact demand for or supply of our products. In addition, natural disasters could also cause disruption to our facilities, systems or projects, which could interrupt operational processes and performance on our contracts and adversely impact our ability to manufacture our products and provide services and support to our customers. We operate facilities in areas of the world that are exposed to natural disasters, such as, but not limited to, hurricanes, floods and tornadoes.. War, other armed conflicts or terrorist attacks could have a material adverse effect on our business.. War, terrorist attacks and unrest have caused and may continue to cause instability in the world's financial and commercial markets and have significantly increased political and economic instability in some of the geographic areas in which we operate. Threats of war or other armed conflict may cause further disruption to financial and commercial markets. In addition, continued unrest could lead to acts of terrorism in the United States or elsewhere, and acts of terrorism could be directed against companies such as ours. Also, acts of terrorism and threats of armed conflicts in or around various areas in which we operate could limit or disrupt our markets and operations, including disruptions from evacuation of personnel, cancellation of contracts or the loss of personnel or assets. Armed conflicts, terrorism and their effects on us or our markets may significantly affect our business and results of operations in the future.. 22. Table of Contents. Risks Relating to our 2015 Spin-Off from our Former Parent. We may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from our separation from BWC.. As an independent public company, we believe that we are able to more effectively focus on our operations and growth strategies than we could as a segment of BWC prior to the spin-off. However, following our separation from BWC in the spin-off, there is a risk that our results of operations and cash flows may be susceptible to greater volatility due to fluctuations in our business levels and other factors that may adversely affect our operating and financial performance. In addition, as a segment of BWC, we previously benefitted from BWC's financial resources. Because BWC's other operations will no longer be available to offset any volatility in our results of operations and cash flows and BWC's financial and other resources will no longer be available to us, we may not be able to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve as an independent public company.. Our historical audited consolidated financial information is not necessarily indicative of our future financial condition, future results of operations or future cash flows nor does it reflect what our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows would have been as an independent public company during the periods presented.. The historical audited consolidated financial information included in this annual report for periods prior to July 1, 2015 does not necessarily reflect what our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows would have been as an independent public company during such periods and is not necessarily indicative of our future financial condition, future results of operations or future cash flows. This is primarily a result of the following factors:. • the historical audited consolidated financial results reflect allocations of expenses for services historically provided by BWC, and those allocations may be different than the comparable expenses we would have incurred as an independent company;. • our cost of debt and other capitalization may be different from that reflected in our historical audited consolidated financial statements;. • the historical audited consolidated financial information does not reflect the changes that will occur in our cost structure, management, financing arrangements and business operations as a result of our separation from BWC, including the costs related to being an independent company; and. • the historical audited consolidated financial information does not reflect the effects of some of the liabilities that have been assumed by B&W and does reflect the effects of some of the assets that have been transferred to, and liabilities that have been assumed by, BWC, including the assets and liabilities associated with BWC's Nuclear Energy segment, which were previously part of B&W and were transferred to BWC prior to the spin-off.. Please refer to \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" included in Part II, Item 7, and the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this annual report.. We are subject to continuing contingent liabilities of BWC following the spin-off.. As a result of the spin-off, there are several significant areas where the liabilities of BWC may become our obligations. For example, under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\") and the related rules and regulations, each corporation that was a member of BWC consolidated tax reporting group during any taxable period or portion of any taxable period ending on or before the completion of the spin-off is jointly and severally liable for the federal income tax liability of the entire consolidated tax reporting group for that taxable period. We entered into a tax sharing agreement with BWC in connection with the spin-off that allocates the responsibility for prior period taxes of BWC consolidated tax reporting group between us and BWC and its subsidiaries. However, if BWC were unable to pay, we could be required to pay the entire amount of such taxes. Other provisions of law establish similar liability for other matters, including laws governing tax-qualified pension plans as well as other contingent liabilities. The other contingent liabilities include personal injury claims or environmental liabilities related to BWC's historical nuclear operations. For example, BWC has agreed to indemnify us for personal injury claims and environmental liabilities associated with radioactive materials related to the operation, remediation, and/or decommissioning of two former nuclear fuel processing facilities located in the Borough of Apollo and Parks Township, Pennsylvania. To the extent insurance providers and third party indemnitors do not cover those liabilities, and BWC was unable to pay, we could be required to pay for them.. 23. Table of Contents. The spin-off could result in substantial tax liability.. The spin-off was conditioned on BWC's receipt of an opinion of counsel, in form and substance satisfactory to BWC, substantially to the effect that, for United States federal income tax purposes, the spin-off qualifies under Section 355 of the Code, and certain transactions related to the spin-off qualify under Sections 355 and/or 368 of the Code. The opinion relied on, among other things, various assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by BWC and us which, if inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by such counsel in its opinion. The opinion is not binding on the United States Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the IRS or the courts will not challenge the conclusions stated in the opinion or that any such challenge would not prevail.. We are not aware of any facts or circumstances that would cause the assumptions or representations that were relied on in the opinion to be inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect. If, notwithstanding receipt of the opinion, the spin-off were determined not to qualify under Section 355 of the Code, each United States holder of BWC common stock who received shares of our common stock in the spin-off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares of our common stock received. In addition, if certain related preparatory transactions were to fail to qualify for tax-free treatment, they would be treated as taxable asset sales and/or distributions.. Under the terms of the tax sharing agreement we entered into in connection with the spin-off, we and BWC generally share responsibility for any taxes imposed on us or BWC and its subsidiaries in the event that the spin-off and/or certain related preparatory transactions were to fail to qualify for tax-free treatment. However, if the spin-off and/or certain related preparatory transactions were to fail to qualify for tax-free treatment because of actions or failures to act by us or BWC, we or BWC, respectively, would be responsible for all such taxes. If we are liable for taxes under the tax sharing agreement, that liability could have a material adverse effect on us.. Potential liabilities associated with obligations under the tax sharing agreement cannot be precisely quantified at this time.. Under the terms of the tax sharing agreement we entered into in connection with the spin-off, we are generally responsible for all taxes attributable to us or any of our subsidiaries, whether accruing before, on or after the date of the spin-off. We and BWC generally share responsibility for all taxes imposed on us or BWC and its subsidiaries in the event the spin-off and/or certain related preparatory transactions were to fail to qualify for tax-free treatment. However, if the spin-off and/or certain related preparatory transactions were to fail to qualify for tax-free treatment because of actions or failures to act by us or BWC, we or BWC, respectively would be responsible for all such taxes. Our liabilities under the tax sharing agreement could have a material adverse effect on us. At this time, we cannot precisely quantify the amount of liabilities we may have under the tax sharing agreement and there can be no assurances as to their final amounts.. Under some circumstances, we could be liable for any resulting adverse tax consequences from engaging in significant strategic or capital raising transactions.. Even if the spin-off otherwise qualifies as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Code, the spin-off and certain related transactions may result in significant United States federal income tax liabilities to us under Section 355(e) and other applicable provisions of the Code if 50% or more of BWC's stock or our stock (in each case, by vote or value) is treated as having been acquired, directly or indirectly, by one or more persons as part of a plan (or series of related transactions) that includes the spin-off. Any acquisitions of BWC stock or our stock (or similar acquisitions), or any understanding, arrangement or substantial negotiations regarding such an acquisition of BWC stock or our stock (or similar acquisitions), within two years before or after the spin-off are subject to special scrutiny. The process for determining whether an acquisition triggering those provisions has occurred is complex, inherently factual and subject to interpretation of the facts and circumstances of a particular case.. Under the terms of the tax sharing agreement we entered into in connection with the spin-off, BWC generally is liable for any such tax liabilities. However, we are required to indemnify BWC against any such tax liabilities that result from actions taken or failures to act by us. As a result of these rules and contractual provisions, we may be unable, within the two year period following the spin, to engage in strategic or capital raising transactions that our stockholders might consider favorable, or to structure potential transactions in the manner most favorable to us, without certain adverse tax consequences.. 24. Table of Contents. Potential indemnification liabilities to BWC pursuant to the master separation agreement could materially adversely affect B&W.. The master separation agreement with BWC provides for, among other things, the principal corporate transactions required to effect the spin-off, certain conditions to the spin-off and provisions governing the relationship between B&W and BWC with respect to and resulting from the spin-off. Among other things, the master separation agreement provides for indemnification obligations designed to make B&W financially responsible for substantially all liabilities that may exist relating to our business activities, whether incurred prior to or after the spin-off, as well as those obligations of BWC assumed by us pursuant to the master separation agreement. If we are required to indemnify BWC under the circumstances set forth in the master separation agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities.. In connection with our separation from BWC, BWC has agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. However, there can be no assurance that the indemnity will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that BWC's ability to satisfy its indemnification obligation will not be impaired in the future.. Pursuant to the master separation agreement, BWC has agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. However, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that BWC agreed to retain, and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from BWC will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that BWC will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. Moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from BWC any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses.. Several members of our board and management may have conflicts of interest because of their ownership of shares of common stock of BWC (now known as BWX Technologies, Inc.).. Several members of our board and management own shares of common stock of BWC and/or options to purchase common stock of BWC because of their current or prior relationships with BWC. In addition, six of the current members of our board of directors were members of the BWC board of directors. This share ownership by these six directors could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when our directors and executive officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for B&W and BWC.. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile.. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly in future periods due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:. • fluctuations in our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry;. • failures of our operating results to meet the estimates of securities analysts or the expectations of our stockholders or changes by securities analysts in their estimates of our future earnings;. • announcements by us or our customers, suppliers or competitors;. • the depth and liquidity of the market for B&W common stock;. • changes in laws or regulations that adversely affect our industry or us;. • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;. • general economic, industry and stock market conditions;. • future sales of our common stock by our stockholders;. • the concentration of ownership of our common stock;. • future issuances of our common stock by us;. • our ability to pay dividends in the future; and. • the other factors described in these \"Risk Factors\" and other parts of this annual report.. Substantial sales of our common stock could cause our stock price to decline and issuances by us may dilute our common stockholders' ownership in B&W.. As of December 31, 2017, we have an aggregate of approximately 44.1 million shares of common stock outstanding. Any sales of substantial amounts of our common stock could lower the market price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities. Further, if we were to issue additional equity securities to raise. 25. Table of Contents. additional capital, our stockholders' ownership interests in B&W will be diluted and the value of our common stock may be reduced.. We do not currently pay regular dividends on our common stock, so holders of our common stock may not receive funds without selling their shares of our common stock.. We have no current intent to pay a regular dividend, and dividend payments are restricted by our lending agreements. Our board of directors will determine the payment of future dividends on our common stock, if any, and the amount of any dividends in light of applicable law, contractual restrictions limiting our ability to pay dividends, our earnings and cash flows, our capital requirements, our financial condition, and other factors our board of directors deems relevant. Accordingly, our stockholders may have to sell some or all of their shares of our common stock in order to generate cash flow from their investment.. Provisions in our corporate documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of B&W, even if that change may be considered beneficial by some stockholders.. The existence of some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of B&W that a stockholder may consider favorable.. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by our board of directors, including discouraging takeover attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for shares of our common stock.. We believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal, and are not intended to make B&W immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in the best interests of B&W and our stockholders.. We may issue preferred stock that could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock.. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designation, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors generally may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock. For example, we could grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock."
