[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Shareholders, potential investors and other readers are urged to consider the significant business risks described below in addition to the other information set forth or incorporated by reference in this 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the \"Special Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements\" at the front of this 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.  If any of the events contemplated by the following risks actually occur, our financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.  The following list of risk factors may not be exhaustive.  We operate in a continually changing business, economic and geopolitical environment, and new risk factors may emerge from time to time.  We can neither predict these new risk factors with certainty nor assess the precise impact, if any, on our business, or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may adversely impact our results of operations.  While there is much uncertainty, we do analyze the risks we face, perform a probability assessment of their impacts and attempt to soften their potential impact when and if possible.. Competitive pressures in the marketplace could decrease our revenues and profits.. Competitive pressures in the marketplace for our products could adversely affect our competitive position, leading to a possible loss of market share or a decrease in prices, either of which could result in decreased revenues and profits.  We operate in an environment where competition varies from moderate to intense and a number of our competitors have greater financial resources.  Our competitors also include alliance partners that sell products that do or may compete with our products, particularly those that provide radio solutions.  The principal elements of competition for our most significant product applications, residential and commercial water meters for the municipal water utility market (with various radio technology systems), are price, product technology, quality and service.  The competitive environment is also affected by the movement toward radio technologies and away from manually read meters, the demand for replacement units and, to some extent, such things as global economic conditions, the timing and size of governmental programs such as stimulus fund programs, the ability of municipal water utility customers to authorize and finance purchases of our products, our ability to obtain financing, housing starts in the United States, and overall economic activity.  For our flow instrumentation products, the competitive environment is affected by the general economic health of various industrial sectors particularly in the United States and Europe.. The inability to develop technologically advanced products could harm our future success.. We believe that our future success depends, in part, on our ability to develop technologically advanced products that meet or exceed appropriate industry standards.  Although we believe that we currently have a competitive advantage in this area, maintaining such advantage will require continued investment in research and development, sales, marketing and manufacturing capabilities.  There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient resources to make such investments or that we will be able to make the technological advances necessary to maintain such competitive advantage.  If we are unable to maintain our competitive advantage, our future financial performance may be adversely affected.  We are not currently aware of any emerging standards, technologies or new products that could render our existing products obsolete in the near term.  The water utility industry is beginning to see the adoption of ultrasonic (electronic) water meters.  Electronic water metering has lower barriers to entry that could affect the competitive landscape in North America.  We believe we have a competitive product if the adoption rate for electronic meters were to accelerate.. 7. The inability to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials and component parts at favorable prices could decrease our profit margins and negatively impact timely delivery to customers.. We are affected by the availability and prices for raw materials and component parts, including purchased castings made of metal or alloys (such as brass, which uses copper as its main component, aluminum, stainless steel and cast iron), plastic resins, glass, microprocessors and other electronic subassemblies, and components that are used in the manufacturing process.  The inability to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials and component parts for our products at favorable prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations by decreasing profit margins and by negatively impacting timely deliveries to customers.  In the past, we have been able to offset increases in raw materials and component parts by increased sales prices, active materials management, product engineering programs and the diversity of materials used in the production processes.  However, we cannot be certain that we will be able to accomplish this in the future.  Since we do not control the actual production of these raw materials and component parts, there may be delays caused by an interruption in the production or transportation of these materials for reasons that are beyond our control.  World commodity markets and inflation may also affect raw material and component part prices.. Regulations related to conflict minerals may force us to incur additional expenses.. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted disclosure requirements related to certain minerals sourced from the Democratic Republic of Congo and surrounding countries, or \"conflict minerals,\" that are necessary to the functionality of a product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by a Securities and Exchange Commission reporting company.  The minerals that the rules cover are commonly referred to as \"3TG\" and include tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold.  Implementation of the disclosure requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of some of the materials that we use in the manufacture of our products.  Our supply chain is complex, and if we are not able to determine the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products or that our products are \"conflict free,\" then we may face reputational challenges with customers or investors.. Economic conditions could cause a material adverse impact on our sales and operating results.. As a supplier of products, the majority of which are to water utilities, we may be adversely affected by global economic conditions, delays in governmental programs created to stimulate the economy, and the impact of government budget cuts or partial shutdowns of governmental operations that affect our customers, including independent distributors, large city utilities, private water companies and numerous smaller municipal water utilities.  These customers may delay capital projects, including non-critical maintenance and upgrades, or may not have the ability to authorize and finance purchases during economic downturns or instability in world markets.  We also sell products for other applications to reduce our dependency on the municipal water market.  A significant downturn in this market could cause a material adverse impact on sales and operating results.  Therefore, a downturn in general economic conditions, as well as in the municipal water market, and delays in the timing or amounts of possible economic stimulus fund programs, government budget cuts or partial shutdowns of governmental operations, or the availability of funds to municipalities could result in a reduction in demand for our products and services and could harm the business.. Economic impacts due to leadership or policy changes in the countries where we do business could negatively affect our profitability.. We may be affected by adjustments to economic and trade policies, such as taxation, changes to or withdrawal from international trade agreements, or the like, when countries where we produce or sell our products change leadership or economic policies.  These types of changes, as well as any related regulatory changes, could significantly increase our costs and adversely affect our profitability and financial condition.. Unusual weather and other natural phenomena could adversely affect our business.. Our sales may be adversely affected by unusual weather, weather patterns or other natural phenomena that could have an impact on the timing of orders in given periods, depending on the particular mix of customers being served by us at the time.. 8. Failure to manufacture quality products could have a material adverse effect on our business.. If we fail to maintain and enforce quality control and testing procedures, our products will not meet required performance standards.  Product quality and performance are a priority for us since our products are used in various applications where precise control of fluids is essential.  Although we believe we have a very good reputation for product quality, any future production and/or sale of substandard products would seriously harm our reputation, resulting in both a loss of current customers to competitors and damage to our ability to attract new customers.  In addition, if any of our products prove to be defective, we may be required to participate in a recall involving such products.  A successful claim brought against us with respect to a defective product in excess of available insurance coverage, if any, or a requirement to participate in a major product recall, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Litigation against us could be costly, time consuming to defend and could adversely affect our profitability.. From time to time, we are subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business.  For example, we may be subject to workers' compensation claims, employment/labor disputes, customer and supplier disputes, product liability claims, intellectual property disputes and contractual disputes related to warranties arising out of the conduct of our business.  Litigation may result in substantial costs and may divert management's attention and resources, which could adversely affect our profitability or financial condition.. If our technology products do not operate as intended, our business could be materially and adversely affected.. We sell and install software products, including some that are provided in \"the cloud,\" that may contain unexpected design defects or may encounter unexpected complications during installation or when used with other technologies utilized by the customer.  A failure of our technology products to operate as intended and in a seamless fashion with other products or a failure of a cloud network could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. Our expanded role as a prime contractor brings certain risks that could have a material adverse effect to our business.. The Company periodically assumes the role as a prime contractor for providing complete technology systems to governmental entities, which brings with it added risks, including but not limited to, our responsibility for managing subcontractor performance and the potential for expanded warranty and performance obligations.  While we have managed a limited number of these types of arrangements, it is possible to encounter a situation where we may not be able to perform up to the expectations of the governmental entity, and thus incur additional costs that could affect our profitability or harm our reputation.. Disruptions and other damages to our information technology and other networks and operations, and breaches in data security or cybersecurity attacks could have a negative financial impact and damage our reputation.. Our ability to serve customers, as well as increase revenues and control costs, depends in part on the reliability of our sophisticated technologies, system networks and cloud-based software.  We use information technology and other systems to manage our business in order to maximize our revenue, effectiveness and efficiency.  Unauthorized parties gaining access to digital systems and networks for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive financial, personal or business information, corrupting data, causing operational disruptions and other cyber-related risks could adversely impact our customer relationships, business plans and our reputation.  In some cases, we are dependent on third-party technologies and service providers for which there is no certainty of uninterrupted availability or through which hackers could gain access to sensitive and/or personal information.  These potential disruptions and cyber-attacks could negatively affect revenues, costs, customer demand, system availability and our reputation.. If we are not able to protect our proprietary rights to our software and related products, our ability to market our software products could be hindered and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. We rely on our agreements with customers, confidentiality agreements with employees, and our trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and patents to protect our proprietary rights.  These legal protections and precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information.  In addition, substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the software industry, and software products may increasingly be subject to third-party infringement claims.  Such litigation and misappropriation of our proprietary information could hinder our ability to market and sell products and services and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. 9. Changes in environmental or regulatory requirements could entail additional expenses that could decrease our profitability.. We are subject to a variety of laws in various countries and markets, such as those regulating lead or other material content in certain of our products, the handling and disposal of certain electronic materials, the use and/or licensing of radio frequencies necessary for radio products, data privacy and protection, as well as customs and trade practices.  We cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future environmental or regulatory requirements to which our operations might be subject or the manner in which existing or future laws will be administered or interpreted.  Currently, the cost of complying with existing laws is included as part of our on-going expenses and does not have a material effect on our business or financial position, but a change in the future could adversely affect our profitability.. Risks related to foreign markets could decrease our profitability.. Since we sell products worldwide as well as manufacture products in several countries, we are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally.  These risks include such things as changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in political or economic conditions of specific countries or regions, potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws or regulatory requirements, differing labor regulations, and the difficulty of managing widespread operations.. An inability to attract and retain skilled employees could negatively impact our growth and decrease our profitability.. Our success depends on our continued ability to identify, attract, develop and retain skilled personnel throughout our organization.  Current and future compensation arrangements, including benefits, may not be sufficient to attract new employees or retain existing employees, which may hinder our growth.. Rising healthcare and retirement benefit costs could increase cost pressures and decrease our profitability.. We estimate liabilities and expenses for retirement plans and other postretirement benefits that require the use of assumptions relating to the rates used to discount the future estimated liability, rate of return on any assets and various assumptions related to the age and cost of the workforce.  Actual results may differ from the estimates and have a material adverse effect on future results of operations or on the financial statements as a whole.  Rising healthcare and retirement benefit costs in the United States may also add to cost pressures and decrease our profitability.. A failure to maintain good corporate governance practices could damage our reputation and adversely affect our future success.. We have a history of good corporate governance, including procedures and processes that are required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, and related statutes, rules and regulations, such as board committee charters, principles of corporate governance, a code of business conduct and applicable exchange listing standards.  Failure to maintain these corporate governance practices could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Violations or alleged violations of laws that impose requirements for the conduct of our overseas operations, including the FCPA or other anti-corruption laws, sanctioned parties restrictions and FATCA could adversely affect our business.. In foreign countries where we operate, a risk exists that our employees, third party partners or agents could engage in business practices prohibited by applicable laws and regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA).  Such anti-corruption laws generally prohibit companies from making improper payments to foreign officials and require companies to keep accurate books and records and maintain appropriate internal controls.  Our policies mandate strict compliance with such laws and we devote resources to ensure compliance.  However, we operate in some parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption, and, in certain circumstances, local customs and practice might not be consistent with the requirements of anti-corruption laws.  We remain subject to the risk that our employees, third party partners or agents will engage in business practices that are prohibited by our policies and violate such laws and regulations.  Violations by us or a third party acting on our behalf could result in significant internal investigation costs and legal fees, civil and criminal penalties, including prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and reputational harm.. We may also be subject to legal liability and reputational damage if we violate U.S. trade sanctions administered by the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC), the European Union and the United Nations, and trade sanction laws such as the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012.. 10. In addition, the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) requires certain of our subsidiaries, affiliates and other entities to obtain valid FATCA documentation from payees prior to remitting certain payments to such payees.  In the event we do not obtain valid FATCA documents, we may be obliged to withhold a portion of such payments.  This obligation is shared with our customers and clients who may fail to comply, in whole or in part.  In such circumstances, we may incur FATCA compliance costs including withholding taxes, interest and penalties.  Regulatory initiatives and changes in the regulations and guidance promulgated under FATCA may increase our costs of operations, and could adversely affect the market for our services as intermediaries, which could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Failure to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquired businesses or products could adversely affect our operations.. As part of our business strategy, we continue to evaluate and may pursue selected business or product acquisition opportunities that we believe may provide us with certain operating and financial benefits.  There can be no assurance that we will identify or complete transactions with suitable acquisition candidates in the future.  If we complete any such acquisitions, they may require integration into our existing business with respect to administrative, financial, sales, marketing, manufacturing and other functions to realize these anticipated benefits.  If we are unable to successfully integrate a business or product acquisition, we may not realize the benefits identified in our due diligence process, and our financial results may be negatively impacted.  Additionally, significant unexpected liabilities may arise during or after completion of an acquisition."
