[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Our business is subject to a high degree of risk and uncertainty, including the following risks and uncertainties, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operation, cash flows and the trading price of our Common Stock:. Global economic conditions may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. Unfavorable changes in economic conditions, including inflation, recession, or other changes in economic conditions, may adversely impact the markets in which we operate. These conditions may make it extremely difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and they could cause U.S. and foreign businesses to slow spending on our products which would reduce our revenues and profitability. Furthermore, during challenging economic times our customers may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could result in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments to us. If that were to occur, we may be required to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts and cash flow would be negatively impacted. We cannot predict the timing, depth or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery, worldwide, or in the markets in which we operate. Also, at any point in time we have funds in our cash accounts that are with third party financial institutions. These balances in the U.S. and Italy exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (\"FDIC\") and Fondo Interbancario di Tutela dei Depositi (\"FITD\") insurance limits, respectively. While we monitor the cash balances in our accounts, these balances could be impacted if the underlying financial institutions fail or could be subject to other adverse conditions in the financial markets.. 7. Increased competition could hurt our business and financial results.. We face competition in our markets from a number of large and small companies, some of which have greater financial, research and development, production and other resources than we do. Our competitive position is based principally on performance, quality, customer support, service, breadth of product line, manufacturing or packaging technology and the selling prices of our products. Our competitors may improve the design and performance of their products and introduce new products with competitive price and performance characteristics. We expect to do the same to maintain our current competitive position and market share.. The loss of governmental permits and approvals would materially harm some of our businesses.. Pursuant to applicable environmental and safety laws and regulations, we are required to obtain and maintain certain governmental permits and approvals, including EPA registrations under FIFRA for two of our products. We maintain EPA FIFRA registrations for ethylene oxide as a medical device sterilant and spice fumigant and for propylene oxide as a fumigant of nuts and spices. The EPA has issued Reregistration Eligibility Decisions for both products in recent years and these uses have been approved for the time being. The EPA may re-examine the registrations in the future in accordance with the provisions of FIFRA. Any future failure of the EPA to allow reregistration of ethylene oxide or propylene oxide would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. Commercial supply of pharmaceutical products that we may develop, subject to cGMP manufacturing regulations, will be performed by third-party cGMP manufacturers. Modifications, enhancements or changes in third-party manufacturing facilities or procedures of our pharmaceutical products are, in many circumstances, subject to FDA approval, which may be subject to a lengthy application process or which we may be unable to obtain. Any third-party cGMP manufacturers that we may use are periodically subject to inspection by the FDA and other governmental agencies, and operations at these facilities could be interrupted or halted if the results of these inspections are unsatisfactory. Failure to comply with the FDA or other governmental regulations can result in fines, unanticipated compliance expenditures, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, enforcement actions, injunctions and criminal prosecution, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. Permits and approvals may be subject to revocation, modification or denial under certain circumstances. Our operations or activities (including the status of compliance by the prior owner of the Verona, Missouri facility under Superfund remediation) could result in administrative or private actions, revocation of required permits or licenses, or fines, penalties or damages, which could have an adverse effect on us. In addition, we cannot predict the extent to which any legislation or regulation may affect the market for our products or our cost of doing business.. Raw material shortages or price increases could adversely affect our business and financial results.. The principal raw materials that we use in the manufacture of our products can be subject to price fluctuations due to market conditions. Such raw materials include materials derived from petrochemicals, minerals, metals, agricultural commodities and other commodities. While the selling prices of our products tend to increase or decrease over time with the cost of raw materials, these changes may not occur simultaneously or to the same degree. At times, we may be unable to pass increases in raw material costs through to our customers due to certain contractual obligations. Such increases in the price of raw materials, if not offset by product price increases, or substitute raw materials, would have an adverse impact on our profitability. We believe we have reliable sources of supply for our raw materials under normal market conditions. We cannot, however, predict the likelihood or impact of any future raw material shortages. Any shortages or unforeseen price increases could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.. 8. Our financial success depends in part on the reliability and sufficiency of our manufacturing facilities.. Our revenues depend on the effective operation of our manufacturing, packaging, and processing facilities. The operation of our facilities involves risks, including the breakdown, failure, or substandard performance of equipment, power outages, the improper installation or operation of equipment, explosions, fires, natural disasters, failure to achieve or maintain safety or quality standards, work stoppages, supply or logistical outages, and the need to comply with environmental and other directives of governmental agencies. The occurrence of material operational problems, including, but not limited to, the above events, could adversely affect our profitability during the period of such operational difficulties.. Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims and recalls, which could adversely impact our financial condition and performance.. Our development, manufacture and sales of food ingredient, pharmaceutical and nutritional supplement products involve an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims, product recalls, product seizures and related adverse publicity. A product liability judgment against us could also result in substantial and unexpected expenditures, affect consumer confidence in our products, and divert management's attention from other responsibilities. Although we maintain product liability insurance coverage in amounts we believe are customary within the industry, there can be no assurance that this level of coverage is adequate or that we will be able to continue to maintain our existing insurance or obtain comparable insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. A product recall or a partially or completely uninsured judgment against us could have a material adverse effect on results of operations and financial condition.. We face risks associated with our sales to customers and manufacturing operations outside the United States.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 22% of our net sales consisted of sales outside the United States. In addition, we conduct a portion of our manufacturing outside the United States. International sales are subject to inherent risks. The majority of our foreign sales occur through our foreign subsidiaries and the remainder of our foreign sales result from exports to foreign distributors, resellers and customers. Our foreign sales and operations are subject to a number of risks, including: longer accounts receivable collection periods; the impact of recessions and other economic conditions in economies outside the United States; export duties and quotas; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; certification requirements; environmental regulations; reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; potentially adverse tax consequences; political and economic instability; and preference for locally produced products. These factors could have a material adverse impact on our ability to increase or maintain our international sales.. We may, from time to time, experience problems in our labor relations.. In North America, approximately 75 employees, or 7% of our North American workforce, as of December 31, 2017, are represented by a union under a single collective bargaining agreement, which was re-negotiated and is effective as of November 14, 2017. It will expire in 2020. In Europe, approximately 100 employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that will also expire in 2018. We believe that our present labor relations with all of our union employees are satisfactory, however, our failure to renew these agreements on reasonable terms could result in labor disruptions and increased labor costs, which could adversely affect our financial performance. Similarly, if our relations with the union portion of our workforce do not remain positive, such employees could initiate a strike, work stoppage or slowdown in the future. In the event of such an action, we may not be able to adequately meet the needs of our customers using our remaining workforce and our operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Our international operations subject us to currency translation risk and currency transaction risk which could cause our results to fluctuate from period to period.. 9. The financial condition and results of operations of our foreign subsidiaries are reported in Euros and Canadian Dollars and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable currency exchange rate for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. Exchange rates between these currencies in recent years have fluctuated and may do so in the future. Furthermore, we incur currency transaction risk whenever we enter into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a currency different than the functional currency. Given the volatility of exchange rates, we may not be able to effectively manage our currency transactions and/or translation risks. Volatility in currency exchange rates could impact our business and financial results.. Our debt instruments impose operating and financial restrictions which could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. Our incurrence of indebtedness could have negative consequences to us, including the following:. •  limiting our ability to borrow additional monies for our working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions; debt service requirements or other general corporate purposes;. •  limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our operations, our business or the industries in which we compete;. •  our leverage may place us at a competitive disadvantage by limiting our ability to invest in the business or in further research and development;. •  making us more vulnerable to downturns in our business or the economy; and. •  there would be a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition if we were unable to service our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, as needed.. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness depends on our ability to generate cash in the future. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service and working capital requirements, we may need to seek additional financing or sell assets. This may make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. Without any such financing, we could be forced to sell assets to make up for any shortfall in our payment obligations under unfavorable circumstances.. Interest payable in accordance with our credit agreement is based on LIBOR. In light of potential fluctuations, we are exposed to risk resulting from adverse changes in interest rates.. Adverse publicity or consumer concern regarding the safety or quality of food products containing our products, or health concerns, whether with our products, products in the same general class as our products or for food products containing our products, may result in the loss of sales. Also, consumer preferences for products containing our products may change.. We are dependent upon consumers' perception of the safety, quality and possible dietary benefits of products containing our food ingredient products. As a result, substantial negative publicity concerning our products or other foods and beverages in which our products are used could lead to a loss of consumer confidence in those products, removal of those products from retailers' shelves and reduced sales and prices of our products. Product quality issues, actual or perceived, or allegations of product contamination, even when false or unfounded, could hurt the image of our products or of brands of products containing our products, and cause consumers to choose other products. Further, any product recall, whether our own or by a third party, whether due to real or unfounded allegations, could impact demand on food products containing our products or even our products.  Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  Consumer preferences, as well as trends, within the food industries change often and our failure to anticipate, identify or react to changes in these preferences and trends could, among other things, lead to reduced demand and price reductions, and could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. While we continue to diversify our product offerings, developing new products entails risks and we cannot be certain that demand for our products and products containing our products will continue at current levels or increase in the future.. 10. Demand for certain of our products is dependent on the levels of productivity by the oil and gas industry, particularly as it relates to shale gas fracturing.  A substantial or an extended decline in oil and gas prices could result in lower expenditures by the oil and gas industry, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. The oil and gas industry historically experiences periodic downturns. Demand for certain of our products depends on the level of expenditures by the oil and gas industry for the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves. These expenditures are generally dependent on the industry's view of future oil and natural gas prices and are sensitive to the industry's view of future economic growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas. Declines in oil and gas prices could result in significant downturn in the oil and gas industry and thereby result in a reduction in demand for oilfield services and related products, which could lead to reduced demand for our products and downward pressure on the prices we charge. These effects could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.. We may not be able to successfully consummate and manage acquisition, joint venture and divestiture activities which could have an impact on our results.. From time to time, we may acquire other businesses, enter into joint ventures and, based on an evaluation of our business portfolio, divest existing businesses. These acquisitions, joint ventures and divestitures may present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including diversion of management attention from existing businesses, difficulty with integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, increased expenses, assumption of unknown liabilities and indemnities, and potential disputes with the buyers or sellers. In addition, we may be required to incur asset impairment charges (including charges related to tangible assets, goodwill and other intangible assets) in connection with acquired businesses which may reduce our profitability. If we are unable to consummate such transactions, or successfully integrate and grow acquisitions and achieve contemplated revenue synergies and cost savings, our financial results could be adversely affected. Additionally, joint ventures inherently involve a lesser degree of control over business operations, thereby potentially increasing the financial, legal, operational and/or compliance risks.. Technology failures or cyber security breaches could have an adverse effect on the Company's operations.. The Company relies on information technology systems to process, transmit, store, and protect electronic information. For example, a significant portion of the communications between the Company's personnel, customers, and suppliers depends on information technology. Information technology systems of the Company may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions due to events beyond its control including, but not limited to, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hackers, and other security issues. The Company has technology and information security processes and disaster recovery plans in place to mitigate its risk to these vulnerabilities; however, these measures may not be adequate to ensure that its operations will not be disrupted, should such an event occur."
