[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of Rexam, or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. We may also encounter significant unexpected difficulties in integrating the two businesses.. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of Rexam will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate our beverage packaging business with Rexam's business. Combining two independent businesses is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. As a result, we are required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of the company and the Rexam business we acquired. The integration process may disrupt the combined business and, if implemented ineffectively, could preclude the realization of the full benefits of the acquisition that are currently expected. Our failure to meet the challenges involved in integrating the two businesses and to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, the activities of the company and could adversely affect the company's results of operations. In addition, the overall integration of the businesses may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer relationships and diversion of management's attention. The possible difficulties of combining the operations of the companies also include, among others:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from combining our business with that of Rexam;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in integrating operations, business practices and systems;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in assimilating and retaining employees;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex combined company;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchallenges in retaining existing customers and suppliers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchallenges in obtaining new customers and suppliers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpotential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses associated with the acquisition; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchallenges in retaining and attracting key personnel.. Many of these factors are or will be outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management's time and energy, which could materially impact the business, financial condition and results of operations of the company. In addition, even if the operations of the businesses of the company and Rexam are integrated successfully, we may not realize the full benefits of the acquisition, including the synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities that we expect, or the full benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the businesses of the company and Rexam. All of these factors could adversely affect the earnings of the company, decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the acquisition, or negatively impact the price of the company's common stock. As a result, we cannot assure that the combination of the company's and Rexam's beverage packaging businesses will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated from the acquisition.. In connection with satisfying requirements under the antitrust laws of the U.S., the European Union and Brazil, and obtaining associated approvals and clearances, we were required to effect significant divestitures. As a result of the required divestitures, we may not realize all or a significant portion of the anticipated benefits of the Rexam acquisition, including anticipated synergies, and the company may otherwise suffer other negative consequences that may materially and adversely affect the company's business, financial condition and results of operations and, to the extent that the current price of the company's common stock reflects an assumption that the anticipated benefits of the acquisition will be realized, the price per share for the company's common stock could be negatively impacted.. 7. Table of Contents. We have a significant level of debt that could have important consequences for our business and any investment in our securities.. The company had $7 billion of interest-bearing debt at December 31, 2017. Such indebtedness could have significant consequences for our business and any investment in our securities, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequiring more of our cash flows from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, limiting our cash flow available to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities or returning additional cash to our shareholders;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trestricting us from making additional acquisitions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may be less leveraged and who, therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting.. Our business, operating results and financial condition are subject to particular risks in certain regions of the world.. We may experience an operating loss in one or more regions of the world for one or more periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Moreover, overcapacity, which often leads to lower prices, exists in certain regions in which we operate and may persist even if demand grows. Our ability to manage such operational fluctuations and to maintain adequate long-term strategies in the face of such developments will be critical to our continued growth and profitability.. The loss of a key customer, or a reduction in its requirements, could have a significant negative impact on our sales.. We sell a majority of our packaging products to a relatively limited number of major beverage, packaged food, personal care and household product companies, some of which operate in multiple geographical markets we serve.. Although the majority of our customer contracts are long-term, these contracts, unless they are renewed, expire in accordance with their respective terms and are terminable under certain circumstances, such as our failure to meet quality, volume or market pricing requirements. Because we depend on a relatively limited number of major customers, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected by the loss of any of these customers, a reduction in the purchasing levels of these customers, a strike or work stoppage by a significant number of these customers' employees or an adverse change in the terms of the supply agreements with these customers.. The primary customers for our aerospace segment are U.S. government agencies or their prime contractors. Our contracts with these customers are subject to several risks, including funding cuts and delays, technical uncertainties, budget changes, government shutdowns, competitive activity and changes in scope.. We face competitive risks from many sources that may negatively impact our profitability.. Competition within the packaging and aerospace industries is intense. Increases in productivity, combined with existing or potential surplus capacity in the industry, have maintained competitive pricing pressures. The principal methods of competition in the general packaging industry are price, innovation, sustainability, service and quality. In the aerospace industry, they are technical capability, cost and schedule. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources, and some may currently have significant excess capacity. Our current or potential competitors may offer products at a lower price or products that are deemed superior to ours. The global economic environment has resulted in reductions in demand for our products in some instances, which, in turn, could increase these competitive pressures.. We are subject to competition from alternative products, which could result in lower profits and reduced cash flows.. Our metal packaging products are subject to significant competition from substitute products, particularly plastic carbonated soft drink bottles made from PET, single serve beer bottles and other food and beverage containers made of glass, cardboard or other materials. Competition from plastic carbonated soft drink bottles is particularly intense in the U.S., Europe and the PRC. Certain of our aerospace products are also subject to competition from alternative products. 8. Table of Contents. and solutions. There can be no assurance that our products will successfully compete against alternative products, which could result in a reduction in our profits or cash flow.. Our packaging businesses have a narrow product range, and our business would suffer if usage of our products decreased or if decreases occur in the demand for the beverages, food and other goods filled in our products.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, 81 percent of our consolidated net sales were from the sale of beverage containers, and we expect to derive a significant portion of our future revenues and cash flows from the sale of beverage containers. Our business would suffer if the use of beverage containers decreased. Accordingly, broad acceptance by consumers of aluminum and steel containers for a wide variety of beverages is critical to our future success. If demand for glass and PET bottles increases relative to metal containers, or the demand for aluminum and steel containers does not develop as expected, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Changes in laws and governmental regulations may adversely affect our business and operations.. We and our customers and suppliers are subject to various federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations, which have been increasing in number and complexity. Each of our, and their, facilities is subject to federal, state, provincial and local licensing and regulation by health, environmental, workplace safety and other agencies in multiple jurisdictions. Requirements of worldwide governmental authorities with respect to manufacturing, manufacturing facility locations within the jurisdiction, product content and safety, climate change, workplace safety and health, environmental, expropriation of assets and other standards could adversely affect our ability to manufacture or sell our products, and the ability of our customers and suppliers to manufacture and sell their products. In addition, we face risks arising from compliance with and enforcement of numerous and complex federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations.. Enacted regulatory developments regarding the reporting and use of \"conflict minerals\" mined from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries could affect the sourcing, availability and price of minerals used in the manufacture of certain of our products. As a result, there may only be a limited pool of suppliers who provide conflict-free materials, and we cannot give assurance that we will be able to obtain such products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Also, because our supply chains are complex, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of all materials used in the products that we sell. The compliance and reporting aspects of these regulations may result in incremental costs to the company. While deposit systems and other container-related legislation have been adopted in some jurisdictions, similar legislation has been defeated in public referenda and legislative bodies in many others. We anticipate that continuing efforts will be made to consider and adopt such legislation in the future. The packages we produce are widely used and perform well in U.S. states, Canadian provinces and European countries that have deposit systems, as well as in other countries worldwide.. Significant environmental, employment-related and other legislation and regulatory requirements exist and are also evolving. The compliance costs associated with current and proposed laws and potential regulations could be substantial, and any failure or alleged failure to comply with these laws or regulations could lead to litigation or governmental action, all of which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.. Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to risks resulting from broader geographic operations.. We derived 50 percent of our consolidated net sales from outside of the U.S. for the year ended December 31, 2017. The sizeable scope of operations outside of the U.S. may lead to more volatile financial results and make it more difficult for us to manage our business. Reasons for this include, but are not limited to, the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpolitical and economic instability;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgovernments' restrictive trade policies;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe imposition or rescission of duties, taxes or government royalties;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\texchange rate risks;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in enforcement of contractual obligations and intellectual property rights; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe geographic, language and cultural differences between personnel in different areas of the world.. 9. Table of Contents. Any of these factors, many of which are present in both the U.S. and other countries, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We are exposed to exchange rate fluctuations.. The financial results of the company are exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations and an increased proportion of assets, liabilities and earnings denominated in non-U.S. dollar currencies. The company presents its financial statements in U.S. dollars and has a significant proportion of its net assets, debt and income in non-U.S. dollar currencies, primarily the euro, as well as the Russian ruble and other emerging market currencies. The company's financial results and capital ratios are therefore sensitive to movements in foreign exchange rates.. We manage our exposure to currency fluctuations, particularly our exposure to fluctuations in the euro to U.S. dollar exchange rate to attempt to mitigate the effect of cash flow and earnings volatility associated with exchange rate changes. We primarily use forward contracts and options to manage our currency exposures and, as a result, we experience gains and losses on these derivative positions offset, in part, by the impact of currency fluctuations on existing assets and liabilities. Our inability to properly manage our exposure to currency fluctuations could materially impact our results.. If we fail to retain key management and personnel, we may be unable to implement our key objectives.. We believe our future success depends, in part, on our experienced management team. Unforeseen losses of key members of our management team without appropriate succession and/or compensation planning could make it difficult for us to manage our business and meet our objectives.. Decreases in our ability to develop or apply new technology and know-how may affect our competitiveness.. Our success depends partially on our ability to improve production processes and services. We must also introduce new products and services to meet changing customer needs. If we are unable to implement better production processes or to develop new products through research and development or licensing of new technology, we may not be able to remain competitive with other manufacturers. As a result, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected.. Adverse weather and climate changes may result in lower sales.. We manufacture packaging products primarily for beverages and foods. Unseasonably cool weather can reduce demand for certain beverages packaged in our containers. In addition, poor weather conditions or changes in climate that reduce crop yields of fruits and vegetables can adversely affect demand for our food containers. Climate change could have various effects on the demand for our products and the costs of inputs to our production in different regions around the world.. We are vulnerable to fluctuations in the supply and price of raw materials.. We purchase aluminum, steel and other raw materials and packaging supplies from several sources. While all such materials are available from independent suppliers, raw materials are subject to fluctuations in price and availability attributable to a number of factors, including general economic conditions, commodity price fluctuations (particularly aluminum on the London Metal Exchange), the demand by other industries for the same raw materials and the availability of complementary and substitute materials. Although we enter into commodities purchase agreements from time to time and sometimes use derivative instruments to seek to manage our risk, we cannot ensure that our current suppliers of raw materials will be able to supply us with sufficient quantities at reasonable prices. Economic and financial factors could impact our suppliers, thereby causing supply shortages. Increases in raw material costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In the Americas, Europe and Asia, some contracts do not allow us to pass along increased raw material costs and we generally use derivative agreements to seek to manage this risk. Our hedging procedures may be insufficient and our results could be materially impacted if costs of materials increase. Due to the fixed-price contracts and derivative activities, while increasing raw material costs may not impact our near-term profitability, increased prices could decrease our sales volume over time.. 10. Table of Contents. Prolonged work stoppages at facilities with union employees could jeopardize our financial position.. As of December 31, 2017, 22 percent of our North American packaging facility employees and 59 percent of our European employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. These collective bargaining agreements have staggered expirations during the next several years. Although we consider our employee relations to be generally good, a prolonged work stoppage or strike at any facility with union employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we cannot ensure that upon the expiration of existing collective bargaining agreements, new agreements will be reached without union action or that any such new agreements will be on terms satisfactory to us.. Our aerospace segment is subject to certain risks specific to that business.. In our aerospace business, U.S. government contracts are subject to reduction or modification in the event of changes in requirements, and the government may also terminate contracts at its convenience pursuant to standard termination provisions. In such instances, Ball may be entitled to reimbursement for allowable costs and profits on authorized work that has been performed through the date of termination.. In addition, budgetary constraints and government shutdowns may result in further reductions to projected spending levels by the U.S. government. In particular, government expenditures are subject to the potential for automatic reductions, generally referred to as \"sequestration.\" Sequestration may occur in any given year, resulting in significant additional reductions to spending by various U.S government defense and aerospace agencies on both existing and new contracts, as well as the disruption of ongoing programs. Even if sequestration does not occur, we expect that budgetary constraints and ongoing concerns regarding the U.S. national debt will continue to place downward pressure on agency spending levels. Due to these and other factors, overall spending on various programs could decline, which could result in significant reductions to revenue, cash flows, net earnings and backlog primarily in our aerospace segment.. We use estimates in accounting for many of our programs in our aerospace business, and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results.. We account for sales and profits on the majority of long-term contracts in our aerospace business in accordance with the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, using the cumulative catch-up method to account for updates in estimates. The percentage-of-completion method of accounting involves the use of various estimating techniques to project revenues and costs at completion and various assumptions and projections relative to the outcome of future events, including the quantity and timing of product deliveries, future labor performance and rates, and material and overhead costs. These assumptions involve various levels of expected performance improvements. Under the cumulative catch-up method, the impact of updates in our estimates related to units shipped to date is recognized immediately.. Because of the significance of the judgments and estimates described above, it is likely that we could record materially different amounts if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances or estimates were to change. Accordingly, updates in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may materially affect our future financial performance.. Our backlog includes both cost-type and fixed-price contracts. Cost-type contracts generally have lower profit margins than fixed-price contracts. Our earnings and margins may vary depending on the types of government contracts undertaken, the nature of the work performed under those contracts, the costs incurred in performing the work, the achievement of other performance objectives and their impact on our ability to receive fees. The fixed-price contracts could subject us to losses if we have cost overruns or if increases in our costs exceed the applicable escalation rate.. As a U.S. government contractor, we could be adversely affected by changes in regulations or any negative findings from a U.S. government audit or investigation.. Our aerospace business operates in a highly regulated environment and is routinely audited and reviewed by the U.S. government and its agencies, such as the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA) and Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA). These agencies review performance under our contracts, our cost structure and our compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards, as well as the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal control systems and policies. Business systems that are subject to review under the DoD Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS) are purchasing, estimating, material management and accounting, as well as property and earned value management. Any costs ultimately found to be unallowable or improperly allocated to a specific contract will not. 11. Table of Contents. be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties, sanctions or suspension or debarment from doing business with the U.S. government. Whether or not illegal activities are alleged, the U.S. government also has the ability to decrease or withhold certain payments when it deems systems subject to its review to be inadequate. If such actions were to result in suspension or debarment, this could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our business is subject to substantial environmental remediation and compliance costs.. Our operations are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations in multiple jurisdictions relating to environmental hazards, such as emissions to air, discharges to water, the handling and disposal of hazardous and solid wastes and the clean-up of hazardous substances. We have been designated, along with numerous other companies, as a potentially responsible party for the clean-up of several hazardous waste sites. Based on available information, we do not believe that any costs incurred in connection with such sites will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, capital expenditures or competitive position. There is increased focus on the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and other environmental issues worldwide.. Our business faces the potential of increased regulation on some of the raw materials utilized in our packaging operations.. Our operations are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations in multiple jurisdictions relating to some of the raw materials, such as epoxy-based coatings utilized in our container making process. Epoxy-based coatings may contain Bisphenol-A (BPA). Scientific evidence evaluated by regulatory agencies in the U.S., Canada, Europe, Japan, Australia and New Zealand has consistently shown these coatings to be safe for food contact at current levels, and these regulatory agencies have stated that human exposure to BPA from epoxy-based container coatings is well below safe exposure limits set by government bodies worldwide. A significant change in these regulatory agency statements, adverse information concerning BPA, or rulings made within certain federal, state, provincial and local jurisdictions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Ball recognizes that significant interest exists in non-epoxy based coatings, and we have been proactively working with coatings suppliers and our customers to evaluate alternatives to current coatings.. Net earnings and net assets could be materially affected by an impairment of goodwill.. We have a significant amount of goodwill recorded on the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2017. We are required at least annually to test the recoverability of goodwill. The recoverability test of goodwill is based on the current fair value of our identified reporting units. Fair value measurement requires assumptions and estimates of many critical factors, including revenue and market growth, operating cash flows and discount rates. If general market conditions deteriorate in portions of our business, we could experience a significant decline in the fair value of reporting units. This decline could lead to an impairment of all or a significant portion of the goodwill balance, which could materially affect our U.S. GAAP net earnings and net assets. We continue to see the industry supply of beverage packaging exceed demand in China, resulting in significant pricing pressure and negative impacts on the profitability of our beverage packaging, Asia Pacific, reporting unit. If it becomes an expectation that this situation will continue for an extended period of time, it may result in a noncash impairment of some or all of the goodwill associated with this reporting unit, totaling $78 million at December 31, 2017. The company's annual goodwill impairment test completed in the fourth quarter of 2017 indicated the estimated fair value of the beverage packaging, Asia Pacific, reporting unit exceeded its carrying amount, including goodwill, by 24 percent.. If the investments in Ball's pension plans, or in the multi-employer pension plans in which Ball participates, do not perform as expected, we may have to contribute additional amounts to the plans, which would otherwise be available for other general corporate purposes.. Ball maintains defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all of its North American and United Kingdom employees, which are funded based on certain actuarial assumptions. The plans' assets consist primarily of common stocks, fixed-income securities and, in the U.S., alternative investments. Market declines, longevity increases or legislative changes, such as the Pension Protection Act in the U.S., could result in a prospective decrease in our available cash flow and net earnings over time, and the recognition of an increase in our pension obligations could result in a reduction to our shareholders' equity. Additional risks exist related to the company's participation in multi-employer pension plans. Assets contributed to a multi-employer pension plan by one employer may be used to provide benefits to employees of other participating employers. If a participating employer in a multi-employer pension plan stops. 12. Table of Contents. contributing to the plan, the unfunded obligations of the plan may be borne by the remaining participants. This could result in increases to our contributions to the plans as well as pension expense.. Restricted access to capital markets could adversely affect our short-term liquidity and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under the notes issued pursuant to our bond indentures.. A reduction in global market liquidity could:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trestrict our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development expenditures and other business activities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincrease our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including the credit risks stemming from the economic environment;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trestrict us from making strategic acquisitions or exploiting business opportunities; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets, pay cash dividends or refinance debt maturities.. If market interest rates increase, our variable-rate debt will create higher debt service requirements, which would adversely affect our cash flow. While we sometimes enter into agreements limiting our exposure, any such agreements may not offer complete protection from this risk.. The global credit, financial and economic environment could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.. The overall credit, financial and economic environment could have significant negative effects on our operations, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe creditworthiness of customers, suppliers and counterparties could deteriorate resulting in a financial loss or a disruption in our supply of raw materials;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tvolatile market performance could affect the fair value of our pension assets, potentially requiring us to make significant additional contributions to our defined benefit pension plans to maintain prescribed funding levels;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ta significant weakening of our financial position or operating results could result in noncompliance with our debt covenants; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\treduced cash flow from our operations could adversely affect our ability to execute our long-term strategy to increase liquidity, reduce debt, repurchase our stock and invest in our businesses.. Changes in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP) and SEC rules and regulations could materially impact our reported results.. U.S. GAAP and SEC accounting and reporting changes are common and have become more frequent and significant over the past several years. These changes could have significant effects on our reported results when compared to prior periods and other companies and may even require us to retrospectively adjust prior periods. Additionally, material changes to the presentation of transactions in the consolidated financial statements could impact key ratios that analysts and credit rating agencies use to rate Ball and ultimately impact our ability to access the credit markets in an efficient manner.. Earnings and cash flows can be impacted by changes in tax laws.. As a U.S.-based multinational business, the company is subject to income tax in the U.S. and numerous jurisdictions outside the U.S. The relevant tax rules and regulations are complex, often changing and, in some cases, are interdependent. If these or other tax rules and regulations should change, the company's earnings and cash flows could be impacted.. In particular, the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Act), which was signed into law on December 22, 2017, may result in fluctuations in the company's net earnings and cash flows. The Act introduced major changes to U.S. income tax law. 13. Table of Contents. that require significant judgment to interpret the impact of the provisions of the Act on the company's financial results.. Due to the timing of its enactment and the complexity associated with the provisions of the Act, the company has made reasonable estimates of its effects where possible and has recorded provisional estimates in its financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017. The Internal Revenue Service and the U.S. Treasury Department may issue subsequent guidance on the provisions of the Act that differs from our current interpretations. As we continue to collect data, prepare analyses, and interpret additional guidance provided by standard-setting bodies, we may make adjustments to these provisional estimates that could materially affect the company's financial results.. The company's worldwide provision for income taxes is determined, in part, through the use of significant estimates and judgments. Numerous transactions arise in the ordinary course of business where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The company undergoes tax examinations by various worldwide tax authorities on a regular basis. While the company believes its estimates of its tax obligations are reasonable, the final outcome after the conclusion of any tax examinations and any litigation could be materially different from what has been reflected in the company's historical financial statements.. Increased information technology (IT) security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime could pose a risk to our systems, networks, products, solutions and services.. Increased global IT security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. While we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including employee training, comprehensive monitoring of our networks and systems, and maintenance of backup and protective systems, our systems, networks, products, solutions and services remain potentially vulnerable to advanced persistent threats. Depending on their nature and scope, such threats could potentially lead to the compromise of confidential information, improper use of our systems and networks, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our reputation, competitiveness and results of operations.. A material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could, if not remediated, result in material misstatements in our financial statements.. Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act. As disclosed in Item 9A in the 2016 Form 10-K filing and Item 4 of the subsequent 2017 Form 10-Q filings, management identified a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting connected to deficiencies associated with the accounting for income taxes related to the sale of some of the company's existing beverage packaging businesses and select beverage can assets of Rexam (the Divestment Business) and the discrete income tax effects related to the acquisition of Rexam. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a result of this material weakness, management concluded that internal control over financial reporting was not effective based on criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organization of the Treadway Commission in \"Internal Control - An Integrated Framework  (2013).\" During 2017, we proactively implemented a remediation plan designed to address this material weakness, which has been evaluated, and the material weakness is now considered remediated. If remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weakness, or if additional material weaknesses in internal control are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results.. Significant developments stemming from the U.K's referendum on membership in the EU could have a material adverse effect on us.. In June 2016, the U.K. held a referendum and voted in favor of leaving the European Union (EU). This referendum has created political and economic uncertainty, particularly in the U.K. and the EU, and this uncertainty may last for years, particularly as the U.K. and the EU continue to negotiate the terms of withdrawal from the EU. Our business in the U.K., the EU and worldwide could be affected during this period of uncertainty, and perhaps longer, by the impact of the U.K.'s referendum and withdrawal from the EU. There are many ways in which our business could be affected, only some of which we can identify at the present time.. 14. Table of Contents. The referendum, and the likely withdrawal of the U.K. from the EU it triggers, has caused and, along with events that could occur in the future as a consequence of the U.K.'s withdrawal, including the possible breakup of the U.K. or the EU, may continue to cause significant volatility in global financial markets, including in global currency and debt markets. This volatility could cause a slowdown in economic activity in the U.K., Europe or globally, which could adversely affect our operating results and growth prospects. In addition, our business could be negatively affected by new trade agreements between the U.K. and other countries, including the U.S., and by the possible imposition of trade or other regulatory barriers in the U.K. These possible negative impacts, and others resulting from the U.K.'s actual or threatened withdrawal from the EU, may adversely affect our operating results and growth prospects."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
