[1] "ITEM 1A      RISK FACTORS. We assume and manage a certain degree of risk in order to conduct our business.  The material risks and uncertainties that Management believes may affect our business are listed below and in ITEM 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk.  The list is not exhaustive; additional risks and uncertainties that Management is not aware of, or focused on, or currently deems immaterial may also impair business operations.  If any of the following risks, or risks that have not been identified, actually occur, our financial condition, results of operations, and stock trading price could be materially and adversely affected.  We manage these risks by promoting sound corporate governance practices, which includes but is not limited to, establishing policies and internal controls, and implementing internal review processes.  Before making an investment decision, investors should carefully consider the risks, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other filings with the SEC.  This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors.. Earnings are Significantly Influenced by General Business and Economic Conditions. Our success depends, to a certain extent, on local, national and global economic and political conditions.  While labor market conditions continue to strengthen, real gross domestic product rose at a solid pace during the second half of 2017, and household spending had been expanding at a moderate pace, there is no assurance that these improvements are sustainable.  Economic pressure on consumers and uncertainty regarding the sustainability of the economic improvements may result in changes in consumer and business spending, borrowing and savings habits, which may affect the demand for loans and other products and services we offer.  Our success also depends on the general economic conditions of the State of California, particularly the local markets in which we operate within the San Francisco Bay Area. Unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services to customers in the greater Bay Area. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the demand for our products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of our deposit funding sources. In addition, oil price volatility, the level of U.S. debt and global economic conditions could destabilize financial markets.  Lastly, the pro-growth fiscal policy could cause the inflation rate to rise faster than expected, compelling the Federal Open Market Committee (\"FOMC\") of the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates rapidly to combat inflation and causing stock market volatility, which we observed in early 2018.. In general, weakness in commercial and residential real estate values and home sale volumes, financial stress on borrowers, increases in unemployment rates1, and customers' inability to pay debt could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the following ways:. ____________________________________________________________________________________________. 1  According to the California Employment Development Department's December 2017 labor reports,  the unemployment rates in Marin, San Francisco, Sonoma, Alameda and Napa counties were 2.3%, 2.4%, 2.8%, 3.0% and 3.6%, respectively, compared to the state of California record low of 4.3%, which was down from 5.2% at the end of 2016.. Page-10. • Demand for our products and services may decline;. • Low cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease;. • Collateral for our loans, especially real estate, may decline in value;. • Loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase as a result of a deterioration of our borrowers' creditworthiness; and. • Investment securities may become impaired.. Interest Rate Risk is Inherent in Our Business. Our earnings are largely dependent upon our net interest income, which is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds.  Interest rates are sensitive to many factors outside of our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the FOMC, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States.  Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, can influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but can also affect (i) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of our securities and loan portfolios.  Our portfolio of loans and securities will generally decline in value if market interest rates increase, and increase in value if market interest rates decline.  In addition, our loans and callable mortgage-backed securities are also subject to prepayment risk when interest rates fall, and the borrowers' credit risk may increase in rising rate environments.. The FOMC increased the federal funds target rate by 25 basis points (basis points are equal to one hundredth of a percentage point) each in March, June and December 2017 to a current range of 1.25% to 1.50%.  While there was no interest rate action in the first meeting of 2018, the FOMC indicated that it may consider further gradual adjustments in 2018 in light of strong labor markets and expectations that inflation will reach the targeted two percent inflation rate over the medium term.  Additionally, other factors such as productivity, oil prices, the strength of the U.S. dollar, and global demand play a role in the FOMC's consideration of future rate hikes.  Our net interest income is vulnerable to a falling or flat rate environment and will benefit if the prevailing market interest rates increase.. However, a rise in index rates leads to lower debt service coverage of variable rate loans if the borrower's operating cash flow does not also rise.  This creates a paradox of an improving economy (leading to higher interest rates) with increased credit risk as short-term rates move up faster than the cash flow or income of the borrowers.  Higher interest rates may also depress loan demand, making it more difficult for us to grow loans.. See the sections captioned \"Net Interest Income\" in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in ITEM 7 and Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk in ITEM 7A of this report for further discussion related to management of interest rate risk.. Banks and Bank Holding Companies are Subject to Extensive Government Regulation and Supervision. Bancorp and the Bank are subject to extensive federal and state governmental supervision, regulation and control. Holding company regulations affect the range of activities in which Bancorp is engaged.  Banking regulations affect the Bank's lending practices, capital structure, investment practices and dividend policy, and compliance costs among other things.  Future legislative changes or interpretations may also alter the structure and competitive relationship among financial institutions.. Disruptions in the financial marketplace have led to additional regulations in an attempt to reform financial markets.  This reform included, among other things, regulations over consumer financial products, capital adequacy, and the creation of a regime for regulating systemic risk across all types of financial service firms.  Further restrictions on financial service companies may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, as well as increase our compliance risk.  While regulations for higher capital requirements have been postponed and there are discussions to deregulate further the financial industry under the current Administration, the nature and extent of future legislative and regulatory changes from both the federal and California legislatures affecting us are unpredictable at this time.. Compliance risk is the current and prospective risk to earnings or capital arising from violations of, or non-conformance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices, internal policies and procedures, or ethical standards set forth by regulators.  Compliance risk also arises in situations where the laws or rules governing certain bank products or activities. Page-11. of our clients may be ambiguous or untested.  This risk exposes Bancorp and the Bank to potential fines, civil money penalties, payment of damages and the voiding of contracts.  Compliance risk can lead to diminished reputation, reduced franchise value, limited business opportunities, reduced expansion potential and an inability to enforce contracts.. For further information on supervision and regulation, see the section captioned \"Supervision and Regulation\" in ITEM 1 above.. Intense Competition with Other Financial Institutions to Attract and Retain Banking Customers. We are facing significant competition for customers from other banks and financial institutions located in the markets that we serve.  We compete with commercial banks, saving institutions, credit unions, non-bank financial services companies, including financial technology firms, and other financial institutions operating within or near our service areas.  Some of our non-bank competitors and peer-to-peer lenders may not be subject to the same extensive regulations as we are, giving them greater flexibility in competing for business.  We anticipate intense competition will continue for the coming year due to the consolidation of many financial institutions and more changes in legislature, regulation and technology.  National and regional banks much larger than our size have entered our market through acquisitions and they may be able to benefit from economies of scale through their wider branch networks, more prominent national advertising campaigns, lower cost of borrowing, capital market access and sophisticated technology infrastructures.  Further, intense competition for creditworthy borrowers could lead to pressure for loan rate concessions and affect our ability to generate profitable loans.. Going forward, we may see continued competition in the industry as competitors seek to expand market share in our core markets.  Further, our customers may withdraw deposits to pursue alternative investment opportunities in the recent bullish equity market.  Technology and other changes have made it more convenient for bank customers to transfer funds into alternative investments or other deposit accounts such as online virtual banks and non-bank service providers.  Efforts and initiatives we may undertake to retain and increase deposits, including deposit pricing, can increase our costs.  Based on our current strong liquidity position, our adjustment to deposit pricing may lag the market in a rising interest rate environment.  If our customers move money into higher yielding deposits or alternative investments, we may lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, thus increasing our funding costs through more expensive wholesale borrowings.. Activities of Our Large Borrowers and Depositors May Cause Unexpected Volatilities in Our Loan and Deposit Balances, as well as Net Interest Margin. Rising real estate values in the Bay Area market have motivated some of our borrowers to sell real estate that collateralized our loans, contributing to loan payoff activity.  We experienced loan payoffs of $133 million and $158 million in 2017 and 2016, respectively.  These payoffs approximated nine and eleven percent annual turnover of our loan portfolio in 2017 and 2016, respectively.  Payoffs of loans originated during a higher interest rate environment may be replaced by new loans with lower interest rates, causing downward pressure on our net interest margin.. In addition, the top ten depositor relationships account for approximately nine percent of our total deposit balances.  The business models and cash cycles of some of our large commercial depositors may also cause short-term volatility in their deposit balances held with us.  As our customers' businesses grow, the dollar value of their daily activities may also grow leading to larger fluctuations in daily balances.  Any long-term decline in deposit funding would adversely affect our liquidity.  For additional information on our management of deposit volatility, refer to the Liquidity section of ITEM 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis, of this report.. Negative Conditions Affecting Real Estate May Harm Our Business and Our Commercial Real Estate (\"CRE\") Concentration May Heighten Such Risk. Concentration of our lending activities in the California real estate sector could negatively affect our results of operations if adverse changes in our lending area occur.  Although we do not offer traditional first mortgages, nor have sub-prime or Alt-A residential loans or significant amounts of securities backed by such loans in the portfolio, we are not immune to volatility in those markets.  Approximately 87% of our loans were secured by real estate at December 31, 2017, of which 70% were secured by CRE and the remaining 17% by residential real estate.  Real estate valuations are influenced by demand, and demand is driven by economic factors such as employment rates and interest rates.. Page-12. Loans secured by CRE include those secured by office buildings, owner-user office/warehouses, mixed-use residential/commercial properties and retail properties.  There can be no assurance that the companies or properties securing our loans will generate sufficient cash flows to allow borrowers to make full and timely loan payments to us.  In the event of default, the collateral value may not cover the outstanding amount due to us, especially during real estate market downturns.. Rising CRE lending concentrations may expose institutions to unanticipated earnings and capital volatility in the event of adverse changes in the CRE market.  The FDIC applies two criteria for identifying institutions that are potentially exposed to significant CRE concentration risk.  The first criterion looks at whether non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans, as defined by the guidelines, exceed 300% of the Bank's total capital.  As of December 31, 2017, our non-owner occupied CRE loans represented 317% of the Bank's capital, which declined from 332% as of December 31, 2016.  The second criterion measures whether the non-owner occupied CRE growth rate during the prior thirty six months exceeds 50%.  Since December 31, 2014, our non-owner occupied CRE portfolio has grown by 22%, below the 50% growth rate per the regulatory guideline.  We maintain heightened review and analyses of our concentrations and have regular conversations with regulators to avoid unexpected regulatory risk.. Severe Weather, Natural Disasters or Other Climate Change Related Matters Could Significantly Affect Our Business. Our primary market is located in an earthquake-prone zone in northern California, which is also subject to other weather or disasters, such as severe rainstorms, wildfire, drought or flood.  These events could interrupt our business operations unexpectedly.  Climate-related physical changes and hazards could also pose credit risks for us.  For example, our borrowers may have collateral properties or operations located in coastal areas at risk to rising sea levels and erosion or subject to the risk of drought in California.  The properties pledged as collateral on our loan portfolio could also be damaged by tsunamis, landslides, floods, earthquakes or wildfires and thereby the recoverability of loans could be impaired.  A number of factors can affect credit losses, including the extent of damage to the collateral, the extent of damage not covered by insurance, the extent to which unemployment and other economic conditions caused by the natural disaster adversely affect the ability of borrowers to repay their loans, and the cost of collection and foreclosure to us.  Lastly, there could be increased insurance premiums and deductibles, or a decrease in the availability of coverage, due to severe weather-related losses.  The ultimate outcome on our business of a natural disaster, whether or not caused by climate change, is difficult to predict.. In October 2017, much of the North Bay region of Northern California was struck by widespread and destructive wildfires.  Fortunately, there was no damage to bank facilities and no significant impairment to services.  Management has assessed the impact of the fires on our loan and investment portfolios; including mapping client addresses and locations of municipal bond issuers to areas affected by the fires and evaluating any known damage to collateral and businesses.  Based on our assessment, the loss to properties and businesses located in the affected areas that are pledged as collateral to our loans or bonds is minimal.  However, the long-term impact to the Napa and Sonoma regional economies is uncertain.  Management is monitoring the situation and will continue to respond to the needs of customers and employees during the rebuilding process.. We are Subject to Significant Credit Risk and Loan Losses May Exceed Our Allowance for Loan Losses in the Future. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through provisions for loan losses charged to expense, that represents Management's best estimate of probable losses that may be incurred within the existing portfolio of loans (the \"incurred loss model\").  The level of the allowance reflects Management's continuing evaluation of specific credit risks, loan loss experience, current loan portfolio quality and present economic, political and regulatory conditions.  The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes.  Further, we generally rely on appraisals of the collateral or comparable sales data to determine the level of specific reserve and/or the charge-off amount on certain collateral dependent loans.  Inaccurate assumptions in the appraisals or an inappropriate choice of the valuation techniques may lead to an inadequate level of specific reserve or charge-offs.. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans and their collateral, identification of additional problem loans, and other factors may require an increase in our allowance for loan losses.. Page-13. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs.  If charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses or cash flows from acquired loans do not perform as expected, we will need to record additional provision for loan losses.. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326):  Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments.  Under the new guidance, entities will be required to measure expected credit losses by utilizing forward-looking information to assess an entity's allowance for credit losses.  The measurement of expected credit losses will be based on historical experience, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectability of a credit over its remaining life.  In addition, the ASU amends the accounting for potential credit losses on available-for-sale debt securities and purchased financial assets with credit deterioration.  ASU 2016-13 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within those fiscal years.  Early adoption is permitted for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years.  We have formed an internal Current Expected Credit Loss (\"CECL\") committee and are working with our third party vendor to determine the appropriate methodologies and resources to utilize in preparation for transition to the new accounting standards.  Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in ITEM 8 for further discussion.. Non-performing Assets Take Significant Time to Resolve and Adversely Affect Results of Operations and Financial Condition.. While our non-performing assets are currently at a low level, there can be no assurance that we will not experience increases in non-performing assets in the future.  Generally, interest income is not recognized on non-performing loans and the administrative costs on these loans are higher than performing loans.  We might incur losses if the creditworthiness of our borrowers deteriorates to a point when we need to take collateral in foreclosures and similar proceedings, resulting in possible mark down of the loans to the fair value of the collateral.  While we have managed our problem assets through workouts, restructurings and other proactive credit management practices that mitigate credit losses, decreases in the value of the underlying collateral, or deterioration in borrowers' performance or financial conditions, whether or not due to economic and market conditions beyond our control, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.  In addition, the resolution of non-performing assets can distract Management from other responsibilities.. Securities May Lose Value due to Credit Quality of the Issuers. We invest in significant portions of investment securities issued by government-sponsored enterprises (\"GSE\"), such as Federal Home Loan Bank (\"FHLB\"), Federal National Mortgage Association (\"FNMA\"), Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (\"FHLMC\"), and Federal Farm Credit Bank.  We also hold mortgage-backed securities (\"MBS\") securities issued by FNMA and FHLMC.  While we consider these securities to have low credit risk as they carry the backing of the U.S. Government, they are not direct obligations of the U.S. Government.  GSE debt is sponsored but not guaranteed by the federal government, whereas government agencies such as Government National Mortgage Association (\"GNMA\") are divisions of the government whose securities are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States.. Since 2008, both FNMA and FHLMC have been under a U.S. Government conservatorship.  As a result, securities issued by FNMA and FHLMC have benefited from this government support.  However, housing finance reform may be introduced to end GSE status, place FNMA and FHLMC into receivership and replace them with multiple mortgage guarantors, which could impact the fair value of our securities issued or guaranteed by these entities.  In October 2017, the FOMC initiated the balance sheet normalization program, in which it intends to reduce the Federal Reserve's holdings of Treasury and agency securities by gradually decreasing its reinvestment of the principal payments it receives from securities.  If the U.S. Government stops reinvesting or starts selling their holdings in U.S. Treasury or MBS issued by the GSE; if the government support is phased-out or completely withdrawn; or if either FNMA or FHLMC comes under financial stress or suffers creditworthiness deterioration, the value of our investments may be significantly impacted.. We also invest in tax exempt obligations of state and political subdivisions whose value have been affected by tax rate reductions from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017.  Additionally, while we generally seek to minimize our exposure by diversifying the geographic location of our portfolio and investing in investment grade securities, there is no guarantee that the issuers will remain financially sound or continue their payments on these debentures.. Page-14. Unexpected Early Termination of Interest Rate Swap Agreements May Affect Earnings. We have entered into interest-rate swap agreements, primarily as an asset/liability risk management tool, in order to mitigate the changes in the fair value of specified long-term fixed-rate loans and firm commitments to enter into long-term fixed-rate loans caused by changes in interest rates.  These hedges allow us to offer long-term, fixed-rate loans to customers without assuming the interest rate risk of a long-term asset by swapping our fixed-rate interest stream for a floating-rate interest stream.  In the event of default by the borrowers on our hedged loans, we may have to terminate these designated interest-rate swap agreements early, resulting in prepayment penalties charged by our counterparties and negatively affect our earnings.. Growth Strategy or Potential Future Acquisitions May Produce Unfavorable Outcomes. We seek to expand our franchise safely and consistently.  A successful growth strategy requires us to manage multiple aspects of the business simultaneously, such as following adequate loan underwriting standards, balancing loan and deposit growth without increasing interest rate risk or compressing our net interest margin, maintaining sufficient capital, and recruiting, training and retaining qualified professionals.. Our strategic plan also includes merger and acquisition possibilities that either enhance our market presence or have potential for improved profitability through financial management, economies of scale or expanded services, such as the Bank of Napa acquisition in 2017.  We may incur significant acquisition related expenses either during the due diligence phase of acquisition targets or during integration of the acquirees.  These expenses have and may continue to negatively impact our earnings prior to realizing the benefits of acquisitions.  We may also be exposed to difficulties in combining the operations of acquired institutions into our own operations, which may prevent us from achieving the expected benefits from our acquisition activities.  Our earnings, financial condition and prospects after the merger may affect our stock price and will depend in part on our ability to integrate the operations and management of the acquired institution while continuing to implement other aspects of our business plan.  Inherent uncertainties exist in integrating the operations of an acquired institution and there is no assurance that we will be able to do so successfully.  Among the issues that we could face are:. • unexpected problems with operations, personnel, technology or credit;. • loss of customers and employees of the acquiree;. • difficulty in working with the acquiree's employees and customers;. • the assimilation of the acquiree's operations, culture and personnel;. • instituting and maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; and. • litigation risk not discovered during the due diligence period.. Undiscovered factors as a result of an acquisition could bring liabilities against us, our management and the management of the institutions we acquire.  These factors could contribute to our not achieving the expected benefits from our acquisitions within desired time frames, if at all.  Further, although we generally anticipate cost savings from acquisitions, we may not be able to fully realize those savings.  Any cost savings may be offset by losses in revenues or other charges to earnings.. We May Not Be Able to Attract and Retain Key Employees. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people.  Competition for the best people in most activities engaged by us has been intense, especially in light of the recent improvement in the job market, and we may not be able to hire skilled people or retain them.  We do not have non-compete agreements with any of our senior officers.  The unexpected loss of key personnel could have an unfavorable effect on our business because of the skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience and difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel.. Accounting Estimates and Risk Management Processes Rely on Analytical and Forecasting Models. The processes we use to estimate probable loan losses and to measure the fair value of financial instruments, as well as the processes used to estimate the effects of changing interest rates and other market measures on our financial condition and results of operations, depends upon the use of analytical and forecasting models.  These models reflect assumptions that may not be accurate, particularly in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances.  Even. Page-15. if these assumptions are adequate, the models may prove to be inadequate or inaccurate because of other flaws in their design or their implementation.  If the models we use for interest rate risk and asset-liability management are inadequate, we may incur increased or unexpected losses upon changes in market interest rates or other market measures.  If the models we use for determining our probable loan losses are inadequate, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to support future charge-offs.  If the models we use to measure the fair value of financial instruments are inadequate, the fair value of such financial instruments may fluctuate unexpectedly or may not accurately reflect what we could realize upon sale or settlement of such financial instruments.  Any such failure in our analytical or forecasting models could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Value of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets May Decline in the Future. As of December 31, 2017, we had goodwill totaling $30.1 million and a core deposit intangible asset totaling $6.5 million from business acquisitions.  A significant decline in expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower growth rates or a significant and sustained decline in the price of our common stock could necessitate taking charges in the future related to the impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets.  If we were to conclude that a future write-down of goodwill or other intangible assets is necessary, we would record the appropriate charge, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We May Take Filing Positions or Follow Tax Strategies That May Be Subject to Challenge. We provide for current and deferred tax provision in our consolidated financial statements based on our results of operations, business activities and business combinations, legal structure and federal and state legislation and regulations, which is still evolving from the December 2017 enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017.  We may take filing positions or follow tax strategies that are subject to interpretation of tax statutes.  Our net income may be reduced if a federal, state or local authority were to assess charges for taxes that have not been provided for in our consolidated financial statements.  Taxing authorities could change applicable tax laws and interpretations, challenge filing positions or assess new taxes and interest charges.  If taxing authorities take any of these actions, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be significantly affected.. The Financial Services Industry is Undergoing Rapid Technological Changes and, As a Result, We Have a Continuing Need to Stay Current with Those Changes to Compete Effectively and Increase Our Efficiencies. We May Not Have the Resources to Implement New Technology to Stay Current with These Changes. The financial services industry is undergoing technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services.  In addition to providing better client service, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and reduces operational costs.  Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to use technology to provide products and services that will satisfy client demands securely and cost-effectively.  In connection with implementing new technology enhancements and/or products, we may experience operational challenges (e.g. human error, system error, incompatibility) which could result in us not fully realizing the anticipated benefits from such new technology or require us to incur significant costs to remedy any such challenges in a timely manner.. Risks Associated with Cyber Security Could Negatively Affect Our Earnings and Reputation. Our business requires the secure management of sensitive client and bank information.  We work diligently to implement security measures that intend to make our communications and information systems safe to conduct business.  Cyber threats such as social engineering, ransomware, and phishing emails are more prevalent now than ever before.  These incidents include intentional and unintentional events that may present threats designed to disrupt operations, corrupt data, release sensitive information or cause denial-of-service attacks.  A cyber security breach of systems operated by the Bank, merchants, vendors, customers, or externally publicized breaches of other financial institutions may significantly harm our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and financial liability.  While we have systems and procedures designed to prevent security breaches, we cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities, physical system or network break-ins or inappropriate access will not compromise or breach the technology protecting our networks or proprietary client information.. Page-16. We Rely on Third-Party Vendors for Important Aspects of Our Operation. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information and systems provided by certain key vendors, including but not limited to data processing, payroll processing, technology support, investment safekeeping and accounting.  For example, we outsource core processing to Fidelity Information Services (\"FIS\") and wire processing to Finastra, which are leading financial services solution providers that allow us access to competitive technology offerings without having to invest in their development.  Our ability to operate, as well as our financial condition and results of operations, could be negatively affected in the event of an interruption of an information system, an undetected error, a cyber-breach, or in the event of a natural disaster whereby certain vendors are unable to maintain business continuity.. Failure of Correspondent Banks May Affect Liquidity. Financial services institutions are highly interrelated because of clearing and exchange, counterparty, and other business relationships. In particular, the financial services industry in general was materially and adversely affected by the recent credit crisis, including the failure and consolidation of banks in the industry in recent years.  While we regularly monitor the financial health of our correspondent banks and we have diverse sources of liquidity, should any one of our correspondent banks become financially impaired, our available credit may decline and/or they may be unable to honor their commitments.. Deterioration of Credit Quality or Insolvency of Insurance Companies May Impede Our Ability to Recover Losses. We have property, casualty and financial institution risk coverage underwritten by several insurance companies, who may not avoid insolvency risk inherent in the insurance industry.  In addition, some of our investments in obligations of state and political subdivisions are insured by insurance companies.  While we closely monitor the credit ratings of our insurers and the insurers of our municipal securities and we are poised to make quick changes if needed, we cannot predict an unexpected inability to honor commitments.  We also invest in bank-owned life insurance policies on certain members of Management, which may lose value in the event of a carrier's insolvency.  In the event that a bank-owned life insurance policy carrier's credit ratings fall below investment grade, we may exchange policies to other carriers at a cost charged by the original carrier, or we may terminate the policies, which may result in adverse tax consequences.. Our loan portfolio is secured primarily by properties located in earthquake or fire-prone zones.  In the event of a disaster that causes pervasive damage to the region in which we operate, not only the Bank, but also the loan collateral may suffer losses not recoverable by insurance.. Bancorp Relies on Dividends from the Bank to Pay Cash Dividends to Shareholders. Bancorp is a separate legal entity from its subsidiary, the Bank.  Bancorp receives substantially all of its cash stream from the Bank in the form of dividends, which is Bancorp's principal source of funds to pay cash dividends to Bancorp's common shareholders, service subordinated debt, and cover operational expenses of the holding company.  Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to Bancorp.  In the event that the Bank is unable to pay dividends to Bancorp, Bancorp may not be able to pay dividends to its shareholders or pay interest on the subordinated debentures.  As a result, it could have an adverse effect on Bancorp's stock price and investment value.. Federal law would prohibit capital distributions from the Bank, with limited exceptions, if the Bank were categorized as \"undercapitalized\" under applicable Federal Reserve or FDIC regulations.  In addition, as a California bank, Bank of Marin is subject to state law restrictions on the payment of dividends.  For further information on the distribution limit from the Bank to Bancorp, see the section captioned \"Bank Regulation\" in ITEM 1 above and \"Dividends\" in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in ITEM 8 of this report.. The Trading Volume of Bancorp's Common Stock is Less than That of Other, Larger Financial Services Companies. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market exchange.  Our trading volume is less than that of nationwide or larger regional financial institutions.  A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity. Page-17. and orderliness depends on the presence of willing buyers and sellers of common stock at any given time.  This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control.  Given the low trading volume of our common stock, significant trades of our stock in a given time, or the expectations of these trades, could cause volatility in the stock price.. We may need to Raise Additional Capital in the Future, and if we Fail to Maintain Sufficient Capital, Whether due to Losses, an Inability to Raise Additional Capital or Otherwise, our Financial Condition, Liquidity and Results of Operations, as well as our Ability to Maintain Regulatory Compliance, Could be Adversely Affected. We face significant capital and other regulatory requirements as a financial institution.  We may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs, which could include the possibility of financing acquisitions.  In addition, Bancorp, on a consolidated basis, and the Bank, on a stand-alone basis, must meet certain regulatory capital requirements and maintain sufficient liquidity.  Importantly, as discussed below, regulatory capital requirements could increase from current levels, which could require us to raise additional capital or contract our operations.  Our ability to raise additional capital depends on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, including investor perceptions regarding the banking industry, market conditions and governmental activities, and on our financial condition and performance.  Accordingly, we cannot assure that we will be able to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us.  If we fail to maintain capital to meet regulatory requirements, our liquidity, business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. We may be Subject to more Stringent Capital Requirements in the Future. We are subject to regulatory requirements specifying minimum amounts and types of capital that we must maintain.  From time to time, the regulators change these regulatory capital adequacy guidelines.  If we fail to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, Bancorp or the Bank may be restricted in the types of activities we may conduct and we may be prohibited from taking certain capital actions, such as paying dividends and repurchasing or redeeming capital securities.  If we become subject to annual stress testing requirements, our stress test results may have the effect of requiring us to comply with even greater capital requirements.  While we currently meet the requirements of the Basel III-based capital rules on a fully implemented basis, we may eventually fail to do so.  In addition, these requirements could negatively affect our ability to lend, grow deposit balances, make acquisitions or make capital distributions in the form of dividends or share repurchases.  Higher capital levels could also lower our return on equity.. We may be Subject to Environmental Liabilities in Connection with the Foreclosure on Real Estate Assets Securing our Loan Portfolio. Hazardous or toxic substances or other environmental hazards may be located on the properties that secure our loans.  If we acquire such properties as a result of foreclosure or otherwise, we could become subject to various environmental liabilities.  For example, we could be held liable for the cost of cleaning up or otherwise addressing contamination at or from these properties.  We could also be held liable to a governmental entity or third party for property damage, personal injury or other claims relating to any environmental contamination at or from these properties.  In addition, we own and operate certain properties that may be subject to similar environmental liability risks.  Although we have policies and procedures that are designed to mitigate against certain environmental risks, we may not detect all environmental hazards associated with these properties.  If we ever became subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. The Small to Medium-sized Businesses that we Lend to may have Fewer Resources to Weather Adverse Business Developments, which may Impair a Borrower's Ability to Repay a Loan, and such Impairment could Adversely Affect our Results of Operations and Financial Condition. We focus our business development and marketing strategy primarily on small to medium-sized businesses.  Small to medium-sized businesses frequently have smaller market shares than their competition, may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, often need substantial additional capital to expand or compete and may experience substantial volatility in operating results, any of which may impair a borrower's ability to repay a loan.  In addition, the success of a small and medium-sized business often depends on the management talents and efforts of one or two people or a small group of people, and the death, disability or resignation of one or more of these people could adversely affect. Page-18. the business and its ability to repay its loan.  If general economic conditions negatively affect the California markets in which we operate and small to medium-sized businesses are adversely affected or our borrowers are otherwise affected by adverse business developments, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be negatively affected.. A Lack of Liquidity could Adversely Affect our Operations and Jeopardize our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Liquidity is essential to our business.  We rely on our ability to generate deposits and effectively manage the repayment and maturity schedules of our loans and investment securities, respectively, to ensure that we have adequate liquidity to fund our operations.  An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, securities sales, Federal Home Loan Bank advances, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity.  Our most important source of funds consists of deposits.  Deposit balances can decrease when customers perceive alternative investments as providing a better risk/return tradeoff.  If customers move money out of bank deposits and into other investments, then we would lose a relatively low-cost source of funds, increasing our funding costs and reducing our net interest income and net income.. Other primary sources of funds consist of cash flows from operations, investment maturities and sales, loan repayments, and proceeds from the issuance and sale of any equity and debt securities to investors.  Additional liquidity is provided by the ability to borrow from the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco and the Federal Home Loan Bank and our ability to raise brokered deposits.  We also may borrow funds from third-party lenders, such as other financial institutions.  Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance or capitalize our activities, or on terms that are acceptable to us, could be impaired by factors that affect us directly or the bank or non-bank financial services industries or the economy in general, such as disruptions in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the bank or non-bank financial services industries.. Based on experience, we believe that our deposit accounts are relatively stable sources of funds.  If we increase interest rates paid to retain deposits, our earnings may be adversely affected, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Any decline in available funding could adversely affect our ability to originate loans, invest in securities, meet our expenses, and pay dividends to our shareholders or fulfill obligations such as repaying our borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes to, or Elimination of, London Interbank Offered Rate (\"LIBOR\") Could Adversely Affect our Financial Instruments with Interest Rates Currently Indexed to LIBOR. Regulators and law-enforcement agencies from a number of governments, including entities in the United States, Japan, Canada and the United Kingdom, have been conducting civil and criminal investigations into whether the banks that contributed to the British Bankers' Association (the \"BBA\") in connection with the calculation of daily LIBOR may have underreported or otherwise manipulated or attempted to manipulate LIBOR. Based on a review conducted by the Financial Conduct Authority of the United Kingdom (the \"FCA\") and a consultation conducted by the European Commission, proposals have been made for governance and institutional reform, regulation, technical changes and contingency planning. In particular: (a) new legislation has been enacted in the United Kingdom pursuant to which LIBOR submissions and administration are now \"regulated activities\" and manipulation of LIBOR has been brought within the scope of the market abuse regime; (b) legislation has been proposed which if implemented would, among other things, alter the manner in which LIBOR is determined, compel more banks to provide LIBOR submissions, and require these submissions to be based on actual transaction data; and (c) LIBOR rates for certain currencies and maturities are no longer published daily. In addition, pursuant to authorization from the FCA, the ICE Benchmark Administration Limited (the \"IBA\") took over the administration of LIBOR from the BBA on February 1, 2014.. In a speech on July 27, 2017, Andrew Bailey, the Chief Executive of the FCA, announced the FCA's intention to cease sustaining LIBOR after 2021. The FCA has statutory powers to require panel banks to contribute to LIBOR where necessary. The FCA has decided not to ask, or to require, that panel banks continue to submit contributions to LIBOR beyond the end of 2021.  The FCA has indicated that it expects that the current panel banks will voluntarily sustain LIBOR until the end of 2021. The FCA's intention is that after 2021, it will no longer be necessary for the FCA to ask,. Page-19. or to require, banks to submit contributions to LIBOR.  The FCA does not intend to sustain LIBOR through using its influence or legal powers beyond that date.  While it is possible that the IBA and the panel banks could continue to produce LIBOR on the current basis after 2021, there is no assurance that LIBOR will survive in its current form, or at all.. We have floating rate loans and investment securities, interest rate swap agreements and subordinated debentures whose interest rates are indexed to LIBOR.  We cannot predict the effect of the FCA's decision not to sustain LIBOR or, if changes are ultimately made to LIBOR, the effect of those changes. In addition, we cannot predict what alternative index would be chosen, should this occur. If LIBOR in its current form does not survive or if an alternative index is chosen, the market value and/or liquidity of our financial instruments currently indexed to LIBOR could be adversely affected."
