[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. An investment in our securities is subject to risks inherent in our business and the industry in which we operate. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and all other information included in this report. The risks described below may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition to these risks and the other risks and uncertainties described in Item 1, \"Business - Forward Looking Statements,\" and Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. The value or market price of our securities could decline due to any of these identified or other risks. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods.. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in a highly competitive environment. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive environment. To date, our competitive strategies have focused on attracting deposits in our local markets, and growing our loan and lease portfolio by emphasizing specific loan products in which we have significant experience and expertise, identifying and targeting markets in which we believe we can effectively compete with larger institutions and other competitors, and offering competitive pricing to commercial borrowers with appropriate risk profiles.  We compete for loans, leases, deposits and other financial services with other commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions, brokerage houses, mutual funds, insurance companies, real estate conduits, mortgage brokers and specialized finance companies.  Many of our competitors offer products and services that we do not offer, and some offer loan structures and have underwriting standards that are not as restrictive as our required loan structures and underwriting standards.  Some larger competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits, name recognition and market presence that benefits them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans, leases and deposits more aggressively than we do, and because of their larger capital bases, their underwriting practices for smaller loans may be subject to less regulatory scrutiny than they would be for smaller banks.  Newer competitors may be more aggressive in pricing loans, leases and deposits in order to increase their market share. Some of the financial institutions and financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject. 9. Table of Contents. to the extensive regulations imposed on national banks and their holding companies. As a result, these nonbank competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various financial services.. Changes in market interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our financial condition and results of operations are significantly affected by changes in market interest rates because our assets, primarily loans and leases, and our liabilities, primarily deposits, are monetary in nature. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense that we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities. Market interest rates are affected by many factors beyond our control, including inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, domestic and international events, and changes in the U.S. and other financial markets. Our net interest income is affected not only by the level and direction of interest rates, but also by the shape of the yield curve and relationships between interest sensitive instruments and key driver rates, including credit risk spreads, and by balance sheet growth, customer loan and deposit preferences and the timing of changes in these variables which themselves are impacted by changes in market interest rates. As a result, changes in market interest rates can significantly affect our net interest income as well as the fair market valuation of our assets and liabilities, particularly if they occur more quickly or to a greater extent than anticipated.. While we take measures intended to manage the risks from changes in market interest rates, we cannot control or accurately predict changes in market rates of interest or deposit attrition due to those changes, or be sure that our protective measures are adequate. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other interest bearing liabilities increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other interest earning assets, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected.  We would also incur a higher cost of funds to retain our deposits in a rising interest rate environment.  While the higher payment amounts we would receive on adjustable-rate or variable-rate loans in a rising interest rate environment may increase our interest income, some borrowers may be unable to afford the higher payment amounts, and this could result in a higher rate of default. Rising interest rates also may reduce the demand for loans and the value of fixed-rate investment securities.. Our commercial real estate loans constitute a concentration of credit and thus are subject to enhanced regulatory scrutiny and require us to utilize enhanced risk management techniques. A substantial portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate.  Our commercial real estate loan portfolio generally consists of multi-family mortgage loans originated in selected geographic markets and nonresidential real estate loans originated in the Chicago market.  At December 31, 2017, our loan portfolio included $588.4 million in multi-family mortgage loans, or 44.5% of total loans, and $131.2 million in non-owner occupied nonresidential real estate loans, or 9.9% of total loans.  These commercial real estate loans represented 382.6% of the Bank's $188.6 million total risk-based capital at December 31, 2017, and thus are considered a concentration of credit for regulatory purposes.  Concentrations of credit are pools of loans whose collective performance has the potential to affect a bank negatively even if each individual transaction within the pool is soundly underwritten.  When loans in a pool are sensitive to the same economic, financial, or business development, that sensitivity, if triggered, could cause the sum of the transactions to perform as if it were a single, large exposure. As such, concentrations of credit add a dimension of risk that compounds the risk inherent in individual loans.. The OCC expects banks to implement board-approved policies and procedures to identify, measure, monitor, and control concentration risks, taking into account the potential impact on earnings and capital under stressed market conditions, economic downturns, and periods of general market illiquidity as well as normal market conditions.  Enhanced risk management is required for commercial real estate concentrations exceeding 300.0% of total risk-based capital.  The Bank has established board-approved policies and procedures to identify, measure, monitor, control and stress test its concentrations of credit.  The Bank has taken other specific steps to mitigate concentrations of credit risk, including the establishment of concentrations of credit limits based on loan type and geography, the maintenance of capital in excess of the minimum regulatory requirements, the establishment of appropriate underwriting standards for specific loan types and geographic markets, active portfolio management and an emphasis on originating multi-family loans that qualify for 50% risk-weighting under the regulatory capital rules.  At December 31, 2017, $365.7 million of the Bank's multi-family loans, or 62.2% of the Bank's total multi-family loan portfolio, qualified for 50% risk-weighting under the regulatory capital rules.  The Bank's earnings and capital could be materially and adversely impacted if economic, financial, or business developments were to occur that materially and adversely impacted all or a material portion of the Bank's commercial real estate loans and caused them to perform as a single, large exposure.. Adverse changes in local economic conditions and adverse conditions in an industry on which a local market in which we do business depends could negatively affect our financial condition or results of operations. Except for our commercial equipment leasing and healthcare lending activities, which we conduct on a nationwide basis, and our multi-family lending activities, which we conduct in selected Metropolitan Statistical Areas, including, but not limited to, the. 10. Table of Contents. Metropolitan Statistical Areas for Chicago, Illinois, Dallas, Texas, Denver, Colorado, Tampa, Florida and Minneapolis, Minnesota, our loan and deposit activities are generally conducted in the Metropolitan Statistical Area for Chicago, Illinois.  Our loan and deposit activities are directly affected by, and our financial success depends on, economic conditions within the local markets in which we do business, as well as conditions in the industries on which those markets are economically dependent.  A deterioration in local economic conditions or in the condition of an industry on which a local market depends could adversely affect such factors as unemployment rates, business formations and expansions, housing demand, apartment vacancy rates and real estate values in the local market, and this could result in, among other things, a decline in loan and lease demand, a reduction in the number of creditworthy borrowers seeking loans, an increase in loan delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures, an increase in classified and nonaccrual loans, a decrease in the value of the collateral for our loans, and a decline in the net worth and liquidity of our borrowers and guarantors.  Any of these factors could negatively affect our financial condition or results of operations.. In addition, our loan portfolio includes fixed- and adjustable-rate first mortgage loans, home equity loans and home equity lines of credit secured by one-to-four family residential properties primarily located in the Chicago metropolitan area. Residential real estate lending is sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that may significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict.  Residential loans with high combined loan-to-value ratios generally are more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and therefore may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, the borrowers may be unable to repay their loans in full from the sale proceeds. As a result, these loans may experience higher rates of delinquencies, defaults and losses, which could in turn adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. The City of Chicago and the State of Illinois have experienced significant financial difficulties, and this could adversely impact certain borrowers and the economic vitality of the City and State. The City of Chicago and the State of Illinois are experiencing significant financial difficulties, including material pension funding shortfalls.  These issues could impact the economic vitality of the City of Chicago and the State of Illinois and the businesses operating there, encourage businesses to leave the City of Chicago or the State of Illinois, and discourage new employers from starting or moving businesses to there.  These issues could also result in delays in the payment of accounts receivable owed to borrowers that conduct business with the State of Illinois and Medicaid payments to nursing homes and other healthcare providers in Illinois, and impair their ability to repay their loans when due.. Repayment of our commercial and commercial real estate loans typically depends on the cash flows of the borrower. If a borrower's cash flows weaken or become uncertain, the loan may need to be classified, the collateral securing the loan may decline in value and we may need to increase our loan loss reserves or record a charge-off. We underwrite our commercial and commercial real estate loans primarily based on the historical and expected cash flows of the borrower. Although we consider collateral in the underwriting process, it is a secondary consideration that generally relates to the risk of loss in the event of a borrower default. We follow the OCC's published guidance for assigning risk-ratings to loans, which emphasizes the strength of the borrower's cash flow. The OCC's loan risk-rating guidance provides that the primary consideration in assigning risk-ratings to commercial and commercial real estate loans is the strength of the primary source of repayment, which is defined as a sustainable source of cash under the borrower's control that is reserved, explicitly or implicitly, to cover the debt obligation. The OCC's loan risk-rating guidance typically does not consider secondary repayment sources until the strength of the primary repayment source weakens, and collateral values typically do not have a significant impact on a loan's risk rating until a loan is classified. Consequently, if a borrower's cash flows weaken or become uncertain, the loan may need to be classified, whether or not the loan is performing or fully secured. In addition, real estate appraisers typically place significant weight on the cash flows generated by income-producing real estate and the reliability of the cash flows in performing valuations. Thus, economic or borrower-specific conditions that cause a decline in a borrower's cash flows could cause our loan classifications to increase and the appraised value of the collateral securing our loans to decline, and require us to increase our loan loss reserves or record charge-offs.. Repayment of our lease loans is typically dependent on the cash flows of the lessee, which may be unpredictable, and the collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. We lend money to small and mid-sized independent leasing companies to finance the debt portion of leases. A lease loan results when a leasing company discounts the equipment rental revenue stream owed to the leasing company by a lessee. Our lease loans entail many of the same types of risks as our commercial loans. Lease loans generally are non-recourse to the leasing company, and, consequently, our recourse is limited to the lessee and the leased equipment. As with commercial loans secured by equipment, the equipment securing our lease loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value. We rely on the lessee's continuing financial stability, rather than the value of the leased equipment, for the repayment of all required amounts under lease loans. In the event of a default on a lease loan, the proceeds from the sale of the leased equipment may not be sufficient. 11. Table of Contents. to satisfy the outstanding unpaid amounts under the terms of the loan.  At December 31, 2017, our lease loans totaled $310.1 million, or 23.5% of our total loan portfolio.. Our loan portfolio includes loans to healthcare providers, and the repayment of these loans is largely dependent upon the receipt of direct or indirect governmental reimbursements. At December 31, 2017, we had $118.6 million of loans and unused commitments to a variety of healthcare providers, including lines of credit secured by healthcare receivables.  The repayment of these lines of credit is largely dependent on the borrower's receipt of payments and reimbursements under Medicaid, Medicare and in some cases private insurance contracts for the services they have provided.  The ability of the borrowers to service loans we have made to them may be adversely impacted by the financial ability of the federal government or individual state governments to make direct reimbursement payments, or, via managed care organizations operating under agreements with the federal government or individual states, to make indirect reimbursements for the services provided.  The failure of a direct or indirect payor to make reimbursements owed to the operators of these facilities, or a significant delay in the making of such reimbursements, could adversely affect the ability of the operators of these facilities to repay their obligations to us.  In addition, changes to national health care policy involving private health insurance policies may also affect the business prospects and financial condition or operations of commercial loan customers and commercial lessees involved in health care-related businesses.. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings would be adversely impacted. In the event that our loan customers do not repay their loans according to their terms, and the collateral securing the repayment of these loans is insufficient to cover any remaining loan balance, including expenses of collecting the loan and managing and liquidating the collateral, we could experience significant loan losses or increase our provision for loan losses or both, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.  At December 31, 2017, our allowance for loan losses was $8.4 million, which represented 0.63% of total loans and 350.04% of nonperforming loans as of that date. In determining the amount of our allowance for loan losses, we rely on internal and external loan reviews, our historical experience and our evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. In addition, we make various estimates and assumptions about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets, if any, serving as collateral for the repayment of our loans. We also make judgments concerning our legal positions and the priority of our liens and interests in contested legal or bankruptcy proceedings, and at times, we may lack sufficient information to establish adequate specific reserves for loans involved in such proceedings. We base these estimates, assumptions and judgments on information that we consider reliable, but if an estimate, assumption or judgment that we make ultimately proves to be incorrect, additional provisions to our allowance for loan losses may become necessary. In addition, as an integral part of their supervisory and/or examination process, the OCC periodically reviews the methodology for and the sufficiency of the allowance for loan losses. The OCC has the authority to require us to recognize additions to the allowance based on their inclusion, exclusion or modification of risk factors or differences in judgments of information available to them at the time of their examination.. A new accounting standard may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has adopted a new accounting standard that will be effective for the Company and the Bank for our first fiscal year after December 15, 2019.  This standard, referred to as Current Expected Credit Loss, or CECL, will require financial institutions to determine periodic estimates of lifetime expected credit losses on loans, and recognize the expected credit losses as allowances for loan losses.  This will change the current method of providing allowances for loan losses that are probable, which may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, and to greatly increase the types of data we will need to collect and review to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses.  Accordingly, regardless of any actual changes to the composition or performance of our loan portfolio, the new accounting standard may require an increase in our allowance for loan losses or expenses incurred to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses, and may therefore have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We could become subject to more stringent capital requirements, which could adversely impact our return on equity, require us to raise additional capital, or constrain us from paying dividends or repurchasing shares. In July 2013, the federal banking agencies approved a new rule that substantially amends the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to the Bank and the Company. The final rule implements the Basel III regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act.. The final rule includes new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which became effective for us on January 1, 2015, and refines the definition of what constitutes \"capital\" for purposes of calculating these ratios.  The new minimum capital requirements are: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 to risk-based assets capital ratio of 6% (increased. 12. Table of Contents. from 4%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from current rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%. The final rule also requires unrealized gains and losses on certain \"available-for-sale\" securities holdings to be included for purposes of calculating regulatory capital requirements unless a one-time opt-out is exercised.  The Bank exercised this one-time opt-out option. The final rule also establishes a \"capital conservation buffer\" of 2.5%, and will result in the following minimum ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7%, (ii) a Tier 1 to risk-based assets capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total capital ratio of 10.5%. The phase in of the new capital conservation buffer requirement began in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and increases each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An institution will be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount. These limitations will establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that can be utilized for such actions.. We have analyzed the effects of these new capital requirements, and as of December 31, 2017, we believe that the Bank and the Company met all of these new requirements, including the full 2.5% capital conservation buffer.. The application of more stringent capital requirements from any source and for any reason could, among other things, result in lower returns on equity, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements.  Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business models, and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets.  Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk-based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying its business strategy, and could limit our ability to make distributions, including paying out dividends or buying back shares.  Specifically, beginning in 2016, the Bank's ability to pay dividends are limited if it does not have the capital conservation buffer required by the new capital rules, which may limit our ability to pay dividends to stockholders.  See \"Supervision and Regulation-Federal Banking Regulation-Capital Requirements.\". We are subject to security and operational risks relating to our use of technology  and our communications and information systems, including the risk of cyber-attack or cyber-theft. Communications and information systems are essential to the conduct of our business, as we use such systems to manage our customer relationships, general ledger and virtually all other aspects of our business.  We depend on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our data processing systems, computers, networks and communications systems. Although we take numerous protective measures and otherwise endeavor to protect and maintain the privacy and security of confidential data, these systems may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, other malicious code, cyber-attacks, cyber-theft and other events that could have a security impact. If one or more of such events were to occur, this potentially could jeopardize confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our systems or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our or our customers' operations. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are not fully covered by our insurance. Security breaches involving our network or Internet banking systems could expose us to possible liability and deter customers from using our systems. We rely on specific software and hardware systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to protect our network and Internet banking systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures. These precautions may not fully protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures that could result in damage to our reputation and our business. Although we perform most data processing functions internally, we outsource certain services to third parties. If our third-party providers encounter operational difficulties or security breaches, it could affect our ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions, which could significantly affect our business operations.. Our operations rely on numerous external vendors. We rely on numerous external vendors to provide us with products and services necessary to maintain our day-to-day operations. Accordingly, our operations are exposed to risk that these vendors will not perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements. The failure of an external vendor to perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements because of changes in the vendor's organizational structure, financial condition, support for existing products and services or strategic focus or for any other reason, could be disruptive to our operations, which in turn could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We also could be adversely affected to the extent such an agreement is not renewed by the third-party vendor or is renewed on terms less favorable to us.. 13. Table of Contents. Our business and operations could be significantly impacted if we or our third-party vendors suffer failure or disruptions of information processing systems, systems failures or security breaches. We have become increasingly dependent on communications, data processing and other information technology systems to manage and conduct our business and support our day-to-day banking, investment, and trust activities, some of which are provided through third-parties. If we or our third-party vendors encounter difficulties or become the subject of a cyber-attack on or other breach of their operational systems, data or infrastructure, or if we have difficulty communicating with any such third-party system, our business and operations could suffer. Any failure or disruption to our systems, or those of a third-party vendor, could impede our transaction processing, service delivery, customer relationship management, data processing, financial reporting or risk management. Although we take ongoing monitoring, detection, and prevention measures and perform penetration testing and periodic risk assessments, our computer systems, software and networks and those of our third-party vendors may be or become vulnerable to unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data (including confidential client information), account takeovers, unavailability of service, computer viruses, denial of service attacks, malicious social engineering or other malicious code, or cyber-attacks beyond what we can reasonably anticipate and such events could result in material loss.  If any of our financial, accounting or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected.  Security breaches in our online banking systems could also have an adverse effect on our reputation and could subject us to possible liability.  Additionally, we could suffer disruptions to our systems or damage to our network infrastructure from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as electrical or telecommunications outages, natural disasters, widespread health emergencies or pandemics, or events arising from local or larger scale political events, including terrorist acts. There can be no assurance that our policies, procedures and protective measures designed to prevent or limit the effect of a failure, interruption or security breach, or the policies, procedures and protective measures of our third-party vendors, will be effective. If significant failure, interruption or security breaches do occur in our processing systems or those of our third-party providers, we could suffer damage to our reputation, a loss of customer business, additional regulatory scrutiny, or exposure to civil litigation, additional costs and possible financial liability. In addition, our business is highly dependent on our ability to process, record and monitor, on a continuous basis, a large number of transactions. To do so, we are dependent on our employees and therefore, the potential for operational risk exposure exists throughout our organization, including losses resulting from human error. We could be materially adversely affected if one or more of our employees cause a significant operational breakdown or failure. If we fail to maintain adequate infrastructure, systems, controls and personnel relative to our size and products and services, our ability to effectively operate our business may be impaired and our business could be adversely affected.. We continually encounter technological change, and may have fewer resources than many of our larger competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We also may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers.. Consumers and businesses are increasingly using non-banks to complete their financial transactions, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Technology and other changes are allowing consumers and businesses to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks through alternative methods. For example, the wide acceptance of Internet-based commerce has resulted in a number of alternative payment processing systems and lending platforms in which banks play only minor roles.  Customers can now maintain funds in prepaid debit cards or digital currencies, and pay bills and transfer funds directly without the direct assistance of banks. The diminishing role of banks as financial intermediaries has resulted and could continue to result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the potential loss of lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. New lines of business or new products and services may subject us to additional risks. From time to time, we may seek to implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business in our current markets or new markets. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed.  In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services, we may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development. 14. Table of Contents. of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible, which could in turn have a material negative effect on our operating results.. Our sources of funds are limited because of our holding company structure. The Company is a separate legal entity from its subsidiaries and does not have significant operations of its own. Dividends from the Bank provide a significant source of cash for the Company. The availability of dividends from the Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. Under these statutes and regulations, the Bank is not permitted to pay dividends on its capital stock to the Company, its sole stockholder, if the dividend would reduce the stockholders' equity of the Bank below the amount of the liquidation account established in connection with the mutual-to-stock conversion. National banks may pay dividends without the approval of its primary federal regulator only if they meet applicable regulatory capital requirements before and after the payment of the dividends and total dividends do not exceed net income to date over the calendar year plus its retained net income over the preceding two years. The Company has also reserved $5.0 million of its available cash to maintain its ability to serve as a source of financial strength to the Bank.  If in the future, the Company utilizes its available cash for other purposes and the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Company, the Company may not have sufficient funds to pay dividends.. Trading activity in the Company's common stock could result in material price fluctuations. It is possible that trading activity in the Company's common stock, including short-selling or significant sales by our larger stockholders, could result in material price fluctuations of the price per share of the Company's common stock. In addition, such trading activity and the resultant volatility could make it more difficult for the Company to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price it deems appropriate, or to use its stock as consideration for an acquisition.. Various factors may make takeover attempts that you might want to succeed more difficult to achieve, which may affect the value of shares of our common stock. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws, federal regulations, Maryland law and various other factors may make it more difficult for companies or persons to acquire control of the Company without the consent of our board of directors. You may want a takeover attempt to succeed because, for example, a potential acquirer could offer a premium over the then prevailing price of our shares of common stock. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws also may make it difficult to remove our current board of directors or management if our board of directors opposes the removal. We have elected to be subject to the Maryland Business Combination Act, which places restrictions on mergers and other business combinations with large stockholders. In addition, our articles of incorporation provide that certain mergers and other similar transactions, as well as amendments to our articles of incorporation, must be approved by stockholders owning at least two-thirds of our shares of common stock entitled to vote on the matter unless first approved by at least two-thirds of the number of our authorized directors, assuming no vacancies. If approved by at least two-thirds of the number of our authorized directors, assuming no vacancies, the action must still be approved by a majority of our shares entitled to vote on the matter. In addition, a director can be removed from office, but only for cause, if such removal is approved by stockholders owning at least two-thirds of our shares of common stock entitled to vote on the matter. However, if at least two-thirds of the number of our authorized directors, assuming no vacancies, approves the removal of a director, the removal may be with or without cause, but must still be approved by a majority of our voting shares entitled to vote on the matter. Additional provisions include limitations on the voting rights of any beneficial owners of more than 10% of our common stock. Our bylaws, which can only be amended by the board of directors, also contain provisions regarding the timing, content and procedural requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations.. New or changing tax, accounting, and regulatory rules and interpretations could have a significant impact on our strategic initiatives, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. The banking services industry is extensively regulated and the degree of regulation has increased due to the Dodd-Frank Act and regulatory initiatives precipitated by the Dodd-Frank Act and the most recent economic downturn and the disruptions that certain financial markets experienced. We also are directly subject to the requirements of entities that set and interpret the accounting standards such as the Financial Accounting Standards Board, and indirectly subject to the actions and interpretations of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, which establishes auditing and related professional practice standards for registered public accounting firms and inspects registered firms to assess their compliance with certain laws, rules, and professional standards in public company audits.  These regulations, along with the currently existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance, and monetary laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies and interpretations, control the methods by which financial institutions and their holding companies conduct business, engage in strategic and tax planning and implement strategic initiatives, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time, particularly during periods in which the composition of the U.S. Congress and the leadership of regulatory agencies and public sector boards change due to the outcomes of national elections.. 15. Table of Contents. Non-compliance with USA PATRIOT Act, Bank Secrecy Act, or other laws and regulations could result in fines or sanctions. Financial institutions are required under the USA PATRIOT and Bank Secrecy Acts to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money-laundering and terrorist activities. Financial institutions are also obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network if such activities are detected. These rules also require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure or the inability to comply with these regulations could result in fines or penalties, curtailment of expansion opportunities, intervention or sanctions by regulators and costly litigation or expensive additional controls and systems. During the last few years, several banking institutions have received large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations. In addition, the U.S. Government has previously imposed laws and regulations relating to residential and consumer lending activities that create significant new compliance burdens and financial risks. We have developed policies and continue to augment procedures and systems designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations, but these policies may not be effective to provide such compliance.. FDIC deposit insurance could increase in the future. The Dodd-Frank Act established 1.35% as the minimum Designated Reserve Ratio (\"DRR\") for the deposit insurance fund. The FDIC has determined that the DRR should be 2.0% and has adopted a plan under which it will meet the statutory minimum DRR of 1.35% by the statutory deadline of September 30, 2020. The Dodd-Frank Act also required the FDIC to base deposit insurance premiums on an institution's total assets minus its tangible equity instead of its deposits. The FDIC has adopted final regulations that base assessments on a combination of financial ratios and regulatory ratings.  The FDIC also revised the assessment schedule and established adjustments that increase assessments so that the range of assessments is now 1.5 basis points to 30 basis points of total assets less tangible equity.  If there are any changes in the Bank's financial ratios and regulatory ratings that require adjustments that increase its assessment, or, if circumstances require the FDIC to impose additional special assessments or further increase its quarterly assessment rates, our results of operations could be adversely impacted."
