[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.  We are subject to various risks resulting from changing economic, environmental, political, industry, business, financial and regulatory conditions.  The risks and uncertainties described below are some of the important inherent risk factors that could affect our business and operations, although they are not the only risks that may have a material adverse effect on the Company.. Changes in business and economic conditions, in particular those of Hawaii, Guam and other Pacific Islands, could lead to lower revenue, lower asset quality, and lower earnings.. Unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more geographically diversified, our business and earnings are closely tied to the economies of Hawaii and the Pacific Islands.  These local economies rely heavily on tourism, the U.S. military, real estate, construction, government, and other service-based industries.  Lower visitor arrivals or spending, real or threatened acts of war or terrorism, increases in energy costs, the availability of affordable air transportation, climate change, natural disasters and adverse weather, public health issues including Asian air pollution, and Federal, State of Hawaii and local government budget issues may impact consumer and corporate spending.  As a result, such events may contribute to a significant deterioration in general economic conditions in our markets which could adversely impact us and our customers' operations.. General economic conditions in Hawaii remained healthy in 2017, led by a strong tourism industry, relatively low unemployment, rising real estate prices, and an active construction industry.  However, deterioration of economic conditions, either locally or nationally, could adversely affect the quality of our assets, credit losses, and the demand for our products and services, which could lead to lower revenues and lower earnings.  The level of visitor arrivals and spending, housing prices, and unemployment rates are some of the metrics that we continually monitor.  We also monitor the value of collateral, such as real estate, that secures the loans we have made.  The borrowing power of our customers could also be negatively impacted by a decline in the value of collateral.. Any reduction in defense spending by the federal government could adversely impact the economy in Hawaii and the Pacific Islands.. The U.S. military has a major presence in Hawaii and the Pacific Islands.  As a result, the U.S. military is an important aspect of the economies in which we operate.  The funding of the U.S. military is subject to the overall U.S. Government budget and appropriation decisions and processes which are driven by numerous factors, including geo-political events, macroeconomic conditions, and the ability and willingness of the U.S. Government to enact legislation.  U.S. Government appropriations have been and likely will continue to be affected by larger U.S. Government budgetary issues and related legislation.  Cuts in defense and other security spending could have an adverse impact on the economies in which we operate, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Changes in interest rates could adversely impact our results of operations and capital.. Our earnings are highly dependent on the spread between the interest earned on loans, leases, and investment securities and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings.  We primarily rely on customer deposits as a sizable source of relatively stable and low-cost funds.  Changes in market interest rates impact the rates earned on loans, leases, and investment securities and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings.  In addition, changes to market interest rates could impact the level of loans, leases, investment securities, deposits, and borrowings, and the credit profile of our current borrowers.  Interest rates are affected by many factors beyond our control, and fluctuate in response to general economic conditions, currency fluctuations, and the monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities.. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans and leases, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits, and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits.  Any substantial prolonged change in market interest rates may negatively impact our ability to attract deposits, originate loans and leases, and achieve satisfactory interest rate spreads.  If we are unable to continue to fund loans and other assets through customer deposits or access capital markets on favorable terms or if we otherwise fail to manage our liquidity effectively, our liquidity, net interest margin, financial results and conditions may be adversely affected.. Credit losses could increase if economic conditions stagnate or deteriorate.. 9. Table of Contents. Although economic conditions are currently healthy nationally and in Hawaii, increased credit losses for us could result if economic conditions stagnate or deteriorate.  The risk of nonpayment on loans and leases is inherent in all lending activities.  We maintain a reserve for credit losses to absorb estimated probable credit losses inherent in the loan, lease, and commitment portfolios as of the balance sheet date.  Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the loan and lease portfolio in determining the level of the reserve for credit losses.  Many of these assumptions are based on current economic conditions.  Should economic conditions stagnate or deteriorate nationally or in Hawaii, we may experience higher credit losses in future periods.. Inability of our borrowers to make timely repayments on their loans, or decreases in real estate collateral values may result in increased delinquencies, foreclosures, and customer bankruptcies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. Legislation and regulatory initiatives affecting the financial services industry, including new restrictions and requirements, could detrimentally affect the Company's business.. After the financial crisis which began in 2008, regulators increased their focus on the regulation of financial institutions.  Laws and regulations, and in particular banking and securities laws, are under intense scrutiny.  The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, triggered sweeping reforms to the financial services industry.  Although many of the rules and regulations implementing the Dodd-Frank Act have already gone into effect, some of the rules have yet to be implemented and will require further interpretation and rulemaking by federal regulators.  We are closely monitoring all relevant sections of the Dodd-Frank Act, as well as statements and initiatives by the new administration regarding potential delay or cancellation of such rulemaking, in our efforts to comply with these new laws and regulations.  The Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing rules and regulations have resulted and are likely to continue to result in increased compliance costs and fees, along with possible restrictions on our operations, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.. The CFPB has exercised its broad rule-making, supervisory, and examination authority of consumer financial products, as well as expanded data collection and enforcement powers, over depository institutions with more than $10.0 billion in assets.  As a result of greater regulatory scrutiny of consumer financial products, the Company has become subject to more and expanded regulatory examinations and/or investigations, which also could result in increased costs and harm to our reputation in the event of a failure to comply with the increased regulatory requirements.  All of these rules have created challenges for product and service offerings, operations and compliance programs for the Company.. Regulation of overall safety and soundness, the CRA, federal housing and flood insurance, as they pertain to consumer financial products and services, remain with the FRB.  Many of the rules and regulations of the CFPB have not been implemented, and therefore, the scope and impact of the CFPB's actions cannot be determined at this time.  This creates significant uncertainty for us and for the financial services industry in general.. These new laws, regulations, and changes, and the uncertainty surrounding whether such laws, regulations and changes will be fully implemented, repealed or reinstated, may continue to increase our costs of regulatory compliance.  They may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our investments, and our ongoing operations, costs, and profitability.. Changes in the capital, leverage, liquidity requirements and the introduction of stress testing requirements for financial institutions could materially affect future requirements of the Company.. Under Basel III, financial institutions are required to have more capital and a higher quality of capital.  Under the final rules issued by the banking regulators, minimum requirements increased for both the quantity and quality of capital held by the Company.  The phase-in period for the final rules began for the Company on January 1, 2015, with full compliance with all of the final rule's requirements phased in over a multi-year schedule.. On October 9, 2012, the FRB published final rules implementing the stress testing requirements for banks, such as the Company, with total consolidated assets of more than $10.0 billion but less than $50.0 billion.  The final stress testing rules set forth the timing and type of stress test activities, as well as rules governing controls, oversight and disclosure.. Compliance with Basel III and the results of our stress testing may result in increased capital, liquidity, and disclosure requirements.  See the \"Regulatory Initiatives Affecting the Banking Industry\" section in MD&A for more information.. 10. Table of Contents. Consumer protection initiatives related to the foreclosure process could affect our remedies as a creditor.. Proposed consumer protection initiatives related to the foreclosure process, including voluntary and/or mandatory programs intended to permit or require lenders to consider loan modifications or other alternatives to foreclosure, could increase our credit losses or increase our expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor.. Hawaii has overhauled its rules for nonjudicial, or out-of-court, foreclosures.  The revised rules have had the unintended effect of many lenders forgoing nonjudicial foreclosures entirely and filing all foreclosures in court, creating a backlog that has slowed the judicial foreclosure process.  In addition, the joint federal-state settlement with several mortgage servicers over foreclosure practice abuses creates additional uncertainty for the Company, and the mortgage servicing industry in general, as it relates to the implementation of mortgage loan modifications and loss mitigation practices in the future.  The manner in which these issues are ultimately resolved could impact our foreclosure procedures, which in turn could affect our financial condition or results of operations.. Competition may adversely affect our business.. Our future depends on our ability to compete effectively.  We compete for deposits, loans, leases, and other financial services with a variety of competitors, including banks, thrifts, savings associations, credit unions, mortgage companies, finance companies, mutual funds, brokerage firms, insurance companies, and other non-traditional providers of financial services, including financial service subsidiaries of commercial and manufacturing companies, all of which may be based in or outside of Hawaii and the Pacific Islands.  We expect competitive conditions to intensify as consolidation in the financial services industry continues.  The financial services industry is also likely to become more competitive as further technological advances enable more companies, including non-depository institutions, to provide financial services.  Some of our competitors are not subject to the same level of regulation and oversight that is required of banks and BHCs.  As a result, some of our competitors may have lower cost structures.  Also, some of our competitors, through delivery channels such as the Internet, may be based outside of the markets that we serve.  Under the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act, banks and bank holding companies from any state are permitted to acquire banks located in any other state, subject to certain conditions, including certain nationwide and state-imposed deposit concentration limits.  Because the Code permits de novo branching by out-of-state banks, those banks may establish new branches in Hawaii.  Interstate branches are subject to certain laws of the states in which they are located. Failure to effectively compete, innovate, and to make effective use of available channels to deliver our products and services could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.. A failure in or breach of our operational systems, information systems, or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors and other service providers, may result in financial losses, loss of customers, or damage to our reputation.. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business.  In addition, we rely on third parties to provide key components of our infrastructure, including loan, deposit and general ledger processing, internet connections, and network access.  These types of information and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations, and, in some cases, are critical to the operations of certain of our customers.  These third parties with which we do business or that facilitate our business activities, including exchanges, clearing firms, financial intermediaries or vendors that provide services or security solutions for our operations, could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints.  Although we have safeguards and business continuity plans in place, our business operations may be adversely affected by significant and widespread disruption to our physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our business and our customers, resulting in financial losses, loss of customers, or damage to our reputation.. An interruption or breach in security of our information systems or those related to merchants and third party vendors, including as a result of cyber attacks, could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, or result in financial losses.. Our technologies, systems, networks and software, and those of other financial institutions have been, and are likely to continue to be, the target of cybersecurity threats and attacks, which may range from uncoordinated individual attempts to sophisticated and targeted measures directed at us.  These cybersecurity threats and attacks may include, but are not limited to, attempts to access information, including customer and company information, malicious code, computer viruses and denial of service attacks that could result in unauthorized access, misuse, loss or destruction of data (including confidential customer information), account takeovers, unavailability of service or other events.  These types of threats may result from human error, fraud or malice on the part of external or internal parties, or from accidental technological failure.  Further, to access our products and services our. 11. Table of Contents. customers may use computers and mobile devices that are beyond our security control systems.  The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber-attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, has increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased.. Our business requires the collection and retention of large volumes of customer data, including payment card numbers and other personally identifiable information in various information systems that we maintain and in those maintained by third parties with whom we contract to provide data services.  We also maintain important internal company data such as personally identifiable information about our employees and information relating to our operations.  The integrity and protection of that customer and company data is important to us.  As customer, public, legislative and regulatory expectations and requirements regarding operational and information security have increased, our operations systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions and breakdowns.. Our customers and employees have been, and will continue to be, targeted by parties using fraudulent e-mails and other communications in attempts to misappropriate passwords, payment card numbers, bank account information or other personal information or to introduce viruses or other malware through \"trojan horse\" programs to our customers' computers.  These communications may appear to be legitimate messages sent by the Bank or other businesses, but direct recipients to fake websites operated by the sender of the e-mail or request that the recipient send a password or other confidential information via e-mail or download a program.  Despite our efforts to mitigate these threats through product improvements, use of encryption and authentication technology to secure online transmission of confidential consumer information, and customer and employee education, such attempted frauds against us or our merchants and our third party service providers remain a serious issue.  The pervasiveness of cyber security incidents in general and the risks of cyber-crime are complex and continue to evolve.  In light of several recent high-profile data breaches involving customer personal and financial information, we believe the potential impact of a cyber security incident involving the Company, any exposure to consumer losses and the cost of technology investments to improve security could cause customer and/or Bank losses, damage to our brand, and increase our costs.. Although we make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of our information systems and have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging.  Even the most well-protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because attempted security breaches, particularly cyber-attacks and intrusions, or disruptions will occur in the future, and because the techniques used in such attempts are constantly evolving and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not to be detected and, in fact, may not be detected.  Accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, and thus it is virtually impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk.  A security breach or other significant disruption could: 1) disrupt the proper functioning of our networks and systems and therefore our operations and/or those of certain of our customers; 2) result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours or our customers, including account numbers and other financial information; 3) result in a violation of applicable privacy, data breach and other laws, subjecting the Bank to additional regulatory scrutiny and exposing the Bank to civil litigation, governmental fines and possible financial liability; 4) require significant management attention and resources to remedy the damages that result; or 5) harm our reputation or cause a decrease in the number of customers that choose to do business with us or reduce the level of business that our customers do with us.  The occurrence of any such failures, disruptions or security breaches could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows as well as damage our brand and reputation.. Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact our earnings and liquidity.. Reputational risk, or the risk to our business, earnings, liquidity, and capital from negative public opinion, could result from our actual or alleged conduct in a variety of areas, including legal and regulatory compliance, lending practices, corporate governance, litigation, ethical issues, or inadequate protection of customer information.  We expend significant resources to comply with regulatory requirements.  Failure to comply could result in reputational harm or significant legal or remedial costs.  Damage to our reputation could adversely affect our ability to retain and attract new customers, and adversely impact our earnings and liquidity.. 12. Table of Contents. We are subject to certain litigation, and our expenses related to this litigation may adversely affect our results.. We are, from time to time, involved in various legal proceedings arising from our normal business activities.  These claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by our regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs.  The outcome of these cases is uncertain.  Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects.  We may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition.  Based on information currently available, we believe that the eventual outcome of known actions against us will not be materially in excess of such amounts accrued by us.  However, in the event of unexpected future developments, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of those matters may be material to our financial results for any particular period.  See the Contingencies section of Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.. Changes in income tax laws and interpretations, or in accounting standards, could materially affect our financial condition or results of operations.. Further changes in income tax laws could be enacted, or interpretations of existing income tax laws could change, causing an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.  Similarly, our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we report our financial condition and results of operations.  Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets, liabilities, and financial results.  Periodically, new accounting standards are issued or existing standards are revised, changing the methods for preparing our financial statements.  These changes are not within our control and may significantly impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Our performance depends on attracting and retaining key employees and skilled personnel to operate our business effectively.. Our success is dependent on our ability to recruit qualified and skilled personnel to operate our business effectively.  Competition for these qualified and skilled people is intense.  There are a limited number of qualified personnel in the markets we serve, so our success depends in part on the continued services of many of our current management and other key employees.  Failure to retain our key employees and maintain adequate staffing of qualified personnel could adversely impact our operations and our ability to compete.. The soundness of other financial institutions, as counterparties, may adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations.. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions.  Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, lending, counterparty, or other relationships.  As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions or the financial services industry in general have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions.  We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual funds, and other institutional clients.  Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client.  In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us.  Such losses could materially affect our financial condition or results of operations.. Changes in the capital markets could materially affect the level of assets under management and the demand for our other fee-based services.. Changes in the capital markets could affect the volume of income from and demand for our fee-based services.  Our investment management revenues depend in large part on the level of assets under management.  Market volatility that leads customers to liquidate investments, move investments to other institutions or asset classes, as well as lower asset values can reduce our level of assets under management and thereby decrease our investment management revenues.. 13. Table of Contents. Our mortgage banking income may experience significant volatility.. Our mortgage banking income is highly influenced by the level and direction of mortgage interest rates, real estate activity, and refinancing activity.  Interest rates can affect the amount of mortgage banking activity and impact fee income and the fair value of our derivative financial instruments and mortgage servicing rights.  Mortgage banking income may also be impacted by changes in our strategy to manage our residential mortgage portfolio.  For example, we may occasionally decide to add more conforming saleable loans to our portfolio (as opposed to selling the loans in the secondary market) which would reduce our gains on sales of residential mortgage loans.  These variables could adversely affect mortgage banking income.. Our mortgage loan servicing business may be impacted if we do not meet our obligations, or if servicing standards change.. We act as servicer for mortgage loans sold into the secondary market, primarily to government sponsored entities (GSEs) such as Fannie Mae.  As a seller and servicer for those loans, we both make warranties about their origination and are required to perform servicing according to complex contractual and handbook requirements.  We maintain systems and procedures intended to ensure that we comply with these requirements. We may be penalized and, in rare instances required to repurchase certain mortgages, due to alleged failures to adhere to these requirements.  Should GSEs change the requirements in their servicing handbooks, we may sustain higher compliance costs.. The requirement to record certain assets and liabilities at fair value may adversely affect our financial results.. We report certain assets, including available-for-sale investment securities, at fair value.  Generally, for assets that are reported at fair value we use quoted market prices or valuation models that utilize market data inputs to estimate fair value.  Because we record these assets at their estimated fair value, we may incur losses even if the asset in question presents minimal credit risk.  The level of interest rates can impact the estimated fair value of investment securities.  Disruptions in the capital markets may require us to recognize other-than-temporary impairments in future periods with respect to investment securities in our portfolio.  The amount and timing of any impairment recognized will depend on the severity and duration of the decline in fair value of our investment securities and our estimation of the anticipated recovery period.. The Parent's liquidity is dependent on dividends from the Bank.. The Parent is a separate and distinct legal entity from the Bank. The Parent receives substantially all of its cash in the form of dividends from the Bank. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay, for example, dividends on the Parent's common stock or to repurchase common stock under the Parent's share repurchase program. Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to the Parent. If the amount of dividends paid by the Bank is further limited, the Parent's ability to meet its obligations, pay dividends to shareholders, or repurchase stock, may be further limited as well.. 14. Table of Contents. There can be no assurance that the Parent will continue to declare cash dividends or repurchase stock.. During 2017, the Parent repurchased 549,199 shares of common stock at a total cost of $45.0 million under its share repurchase program.  The Parent also paid cash dividends of $87.1 million during 2017.  In January 2018, the Parent's Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.52 per share on the Parent's outstanding shares.  In addition, from January 1, 2018 through February 16, 2018, the Parent repurchased an additional 80,000 shares of common stock at an average cost of $84.27 per share and a total cost of $6.7 million.. Whether we continue, and the amount and timing of, such dividends and/or stock repurchases is subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our Board of Directors.  We continue to evaluate the potential impact that regulatory proposals may have on our liquidity and capital management strategies, including Basel III and those required under the Dodd-Frank Act.  The actual amount and timing of future dividends and share repurchases, if any, will depend on market and economic conditions, applicable SEC rules, federal and state regulatory restrictions, and various other factors.  In addition, the amount we spend and the number of shares we are able to repurchase under our stock repurchase program may further be affected by a number of other factors, including the stock price and blackout periods in which we are restricted from repurchasing shares.  Our dividend payments and/or stock repurchases may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends and/or repurchase stock in any particular amounts or at all.  A reduction in or elimination of our dividend payments and/or stock repurchases could have a negative effect on our stock price.. Natural disasters and adverse weather could negatively affect real estate property values and bank operations.. Real estate and real estate property values play an important role for the Bank in several ways.  The Bank owns or leases many real estate properties in connection with its operations, primarily located in Hawaii.  Real estate is also utilized as collateral for many of our loans.  A natural disaster could cause property values to fall, which could require the Bank to record an impairment on its financial statements.  A natural disaster could also impact collateral values, which would increase our exposure to loan defaults.  Our business operations could also suffer to the extent the Bank cannot utilize its branch network due to weather-related damage.. 15. Table of Contents"
