[1] "Item 1a - Risk Factors. Company. The following is a discussion of what the Company believes are the most significant risks and uncertainties that may affect the Company's business, financial condition and future results.. National and global economic and geopolitical conditions could adversely affect our future results of operations or market price of our stock.. Our business is impacted by factors such as economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, changes in government monetary and fiscal policies, inflation, and market volatility, all of which are beyond our control. National and global economies are constantly in flux, as evidenced by recent market volatility resulting from, among other things, a relatively new presidential administration and new tax and economic policies associated therewith, the uncertain future relationship between the European Union and United Kingdom, and the ever-changing landscape of the energy industry. Future economic conditions cannot be predicted, and any renewed deterioration in the economies of the nation as a whole or in our market could have an adverse effect, which could be material, on our business, financial condition, results, operations and prospects, and could cause the market price of our stock to decline.. Our business is subject to geographic risks that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.. We conduct banking operations principally in northern California. As a result, our business results are dependent in large part upon the business activity, population, income levels, deposits and real estate activity in northern California. Any future deterioration in economic conditions, particularly within our geographic region, could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tLoan delinquencies may increase causing increases in our provision for loan and lease losses and in our Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses (“ALLL”);. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tFinancial sector regulators may adopt more restrictive practices or interpretations of existing regulations, or adopt new regulations;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tCollateral for loans made by the Bank, especially real estate related, may decline in value, which in turn could reduce a client’s borrowing power, and reduce the value of assets and collateral associated with our loans held for investment;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tConsumer confidence levels may decline and cause adverse changes in payment patterns, resulting in increased delinquencies and default rates on loans and other credit facilities and decreased demand for our products and services;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tDemand for loans and other products and services may decrease;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tLow cost or non-interest-bearing deposits may decrease; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tPerformance of the underlying loans in the private label mortgage backed securities we hold may deteriorate, potentially causing other-than-temporary impairment markdowns to our investment portfolio.. 11. Table of Contents. Our inability to successfully manage our growth or implement our growth strategy could affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We may not be able to successfully implement our growth strategy if we are unable to expand market share in our existing market or identify attractive new markets, locations or opportunities to expand in the future. In addition, our ability to manage growth successfully will depend on whether we can maintain adequate capital levels, maintain cost controls, effectively manage asset quality and successfully integrate any expanded business divisions or acquired businesses into our operations.. As we continue to implement our growth strategy by opening new branches or acquiring branches or banks, we expect to incur increased personnel, occupancy, and other operating expenses. In the case of new branches, we must absorb higher expenses while we begin to generate new deposits. In the case of acquired branches, we must absorb higher expenses while we begin deploying the newly assumed deposit liabilities. With either new branches opened or branches acquired, there could be a lag time involved in deploying new deposits into attractively priced loans and other higher yielding earning assets. Thus, expansion could depress earnings in the short-term, even if an efficiently executed branching strategy leads to long-term financial benefits.. The loan portfolio includes a significant amount of purchased loans and a significant amount of loans serviced by another company.. Purchased loans included in the loan portfolio totaled $134.9 million or 14% of gross portfolio loans as of December 31, 2017. The loans were purchased as a pool of loans, whole loans or purchased participations from another institution. The majority of the loans are outside our principal market. The loans were purchased under several different contracts, however, $87.7 million or 10% of gross portfolio loans are serviced by two unrelated third party servicing companies. A disruption to the operations of either of the loan servicing companies could reduce the value of the assets that we own. In addition, if we were ever forced to service these loans ourselves, we would incur additional monitoring and servicing costs due to the geographic disbursement of the portfolio, both in and outside our market area which would adversely affect our noninterest expense.. We have a concentration risk in real estate related loans.. A substantial portion of our lending is tied to real estate. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 77% of our loan portfolio was secured by real estate, the majority of which is commercial real estate. Of that amount, 2% of the portfolio consisted of construction and land development, 64% in commercial real estate (non-owner occupied and owner-occupied), 5% in residential ITIN, 3% in residential 1-4 family mortgage and 3% in residential equity lines.. A large percentage of our loan portfolio is comprised of commercial real estate loans which generally carry larger loan balances and historically have involved a greater degree of financial and credit risks than residential first mortgage loans. These loans are primarily made based on and repaid from the cash flow of the borrower (which may be unpredictable) and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. Any decline in the economy in general, material increases in interest rates, changes in tax policies, tightening credit or refinancing markets, or a decline in real estate values in our principal market areas in particular, could have an adverse impact on the repayment of these loans. Further, our ability to recover on these loans by selling or disposing of the underlying real estate collateral would be adversely impacted by any decline in real estate values, which increases the likelihood that we would suffer losses on defaulted loans secured by real estate beyond the amounts provided for in the ALLL. Any increase in net charge-offs and in the ALLL could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations and prospects.. Nonperforming assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We generally do not record interest income on nonperforming loans or other real estate owned, thereby adversely affecting our income, and increasing our loan administration costs. When we take collateral in foreclosures and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the related asset to the then fair market value of the collateral, which may result in a loss. An increase in the level of nonperforming assets increases our risk profile and consequently may impact the capital levels our regulators believe are appropriate.. While we reduce problem assets through loan sales, workouts, restructurings and otherwise, decreases in the value of the underlying collateral or in these borrowers’ performance or financial condition, whether or not due to economic and market conditions beyond our control, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires significant commitments of time from management and our directors, which can be detrimental to the performance of their other responsibilities. We expect the level of non-performing assets and losses relating to such assets to continue to decline, however there can be no assurance that we will not experience future increases in nonperforming assets.. Future loan and lease losses may exceed the allowance for loan and lease losses.. We have established an allowance for possible losses expected in connection with loans in the credit portfolio. This allowance reflects estimates of the collectability of certain identified loans, as well as an overall risk assessment of gross loans outstanding.. The determination of the amount of the allowance for loan and lease losses is subjective. Although the method for determining the amount of the allowance uses criteria such as risk ratings and historical loss rates, these factors may not be adequate predictors of future loan performance. Accordingly, we cannot offer assurances that these estimates ultimately will prove correct or that the loan and lease loss allowance will be sufficient to protect against losses that ultimately may occur. If the allowance for loan and lease losses proves to be inadequate, we will need to make additional provisions to the allowance, which is accounted for as charges to income, which would adversely impact results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, federal and state banking regulators, as an integral part of their supervisory function, periodically review our loan portfolio and the adequacy of our allowance. These regulatory authorities may require us to recognize further loan loss provisions or charge-offs based upon their judgments, which may be different from our judgments. Any increase in the allowance could have an adverse effect, which could be material, on our financial condition and results of operations.. 12. Table of Contents. Defaults may negatively impact us.. Risk arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained if a significant number of borrowers, guarantors and related parties fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. We have adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the adequacy of the allowance for loan and lease losses, which management believes are appropriate to minimize risk by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance and diversifying the loan portfolio. These policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could materially affect our results of operations.. Interest rate fluctuations, which are out of our control, could harm profitability.. Our income is highly dependent on “interest rate spreads” (i.e., the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets such as loans and securities, and the interest expense paid on our interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings). The underlying interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, many of which are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, inflation, recession and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Recently, the Federal Reserve Board increased the federal funds target range and has indicated further increases could continue depending on economic conditions. We have positioned the balance sheet into an interest rate risk position that is essentially neutral as we plan for rising interest rates. In recent years, we originated higher volumes of longer term fixed rate loans. These loans, combined with the structure of our investment portfolio, the use of floors in the pricing of our variable rate loans and funding mix caused the Company to become neutral to slightly liability sensitive. The interest rates we pay on deposits and the interest rates we earn on loans are determined in large part by the rates paid and charged by our competitors. In addition, changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates influence the origination of loans, the purchase of investments and the generation of deposits. These changes affect the rates received on loans and securities and paid on deposits, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in the fair value of our securities may reduce our shareholders’ equity and net income.. We increase or decrease our shareholders’ equity by the amount of change in the unrealized gain or loss (the difference between the fair value and the amortized cost) of our available-for-sale securities portfolio, net of related tax, under the category of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). A decline in the fair value of this portfolio will result in a decline in reported shareholders’ equity, as well as book value per common share. This decrease will occur even though the securities are not sold. In the case of debt securities, if these securities are never sold and there are no credit impairments, the decrease will be recovered over the life of the securities. In the event there are credit loss related impairments, the credit loss component is recognized in earnings.. We own shares of Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco stock which are recorded in other assets. The stock is carried at cost and subject to recoverability testing under applicable accounting standards. As of December 31, 2017, we did not recognize an impairment charge related to our Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco stock holdings; however, potential negative changes to the financial condition of the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco may require us to recognize an impairment charge with respect to such stock holdings. Any such impairment charge would have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.. We own investments in Qualified Zone Academy Bonds (“QZAB”) which are recorded in other assets. The investments are carried at cost and subject to recoverability testing under applicable accounting standards. As of December 31, 2017, we did not recognize an impairment charge related to our QZAB investment holdings; however, potential negative changes to the financial condition of the issuing institution may require us to recognize an impairment charge with respect to such holdings. Any such impairment charge would have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.. Credit quality for private label mortgage backed securities we hold may deteriorate creating additional credit risk in our investment portfolio.. Our securities portfolio contains private label mortgage backed securities. These securities have more credit risk than the securities in our portfolio that are obligations of the U.S. Government or obligations guaranteed by U.S. Government. We monitor the credit characteristics of the underlying mortgages to identify potential credit losses, if any, in the portfolio. If there is a decline in fair value due to credit quality concerns for a security we may be required to recognize an other-than-temporarily-impairment in earnings. Our Investment Policy requires that at the time of purchase, securities purchased to be rated A3/A- or higher by Moody’s, S&P and Fitch rating agencies.. Conditions in the financial markets may limit our access to additional funding to meet our liquidity needs.. Liquidity is essential to our business, as we must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of depositors and borrowers. An inability to raise funds through deposits, repurchase agreements, federal funds purchased, Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco advances, the sale or pledging as collateral of securities, loans, and other assets could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could negatively affect our access to liquidity sources include negative operating results, a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or negative regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as severe disruption of the financial markets or negative news and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole. An inability to borrow funds to meet our liquidity needs could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.. 13. Table of Contents. The condition of other financial institutions could negatively affect us.. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, public perceptions and other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks and other institutional clients.. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to us. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Competition in our market areas may limit future success.. Community banking is a highly competitive business and a consolidating industry. We compete for loans and deposits with other commercial banks, savings and loans, credit unions, finance, insurance and other non-depository companies operating in our market areas. Some of our competitors are not subject to the same regulations and restrictions as are we, and some of our competitors have greater financial resources. If we are unable to effectively compete in our market areas, the Company's business, results of operations, and prospects could be adversely affected.. Derivative financial instruments subject the Company to credit and market risk. We may use derivatives to hedge the risk of changes in market interest rates in order to limit the impact on earnings and cash flows relating to specific groups of assets and liabilities. Our use of derivatives in our risk management activities could expose the Company to mark-to-market losses if interest rates move in a materially different way than we expected when we entered into the related derivative contracts. In addition, we would be exposed to credit risk should the counterparty fail to perform under the terms of the derivative contracts. This could cause us to forfeit the payments due to us or result in settlement delays with the attendant credit and operational risk as well as increased costs to us. Derivative contracts may contain a provision which allows the counterparty to terminate the derivative contract if we failed to maintain our status as a well/adequately capitalized institution or if specific regulatory events occurred. If these contracts were terminated by the counterparty, we would be required to settle our obligations under the agreements, which could also cause operational risk and increased costs to us.. We rely heavily on our management team and the loss of key officers may adversely affect operations.. We are dependent on the successful recruitment and retention of highly qualified personnel. Our ability to implement our business strategies is closely tied to the strengths of our chief executive officer and other key officers. Additionally, business banking, one of our principal lines of business, is dependent on relationship banking in which our personnel develop professional relationships with small business owners and officers of larger business customers who are responsible for the financial management of the companies they represent. If management team members or other key employees were to leave the Company and become employed by a competing bank, we could potentially lose business customers. In addition, we rely on our customer service staff to effectively serve the needs of our customers. The loss of key employees to competitors or otherwise could have an adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition.. Our future performance will depend on our ability to respond to technological change.. The financial services industry is experiencing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. Effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and reduce costs. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements than we do. Our future success will depend, to some degree, on our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as create additional efficiencies in our operations, We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products or service, or be successful in marketing such products and services. Additionally, the implementation of technological changes and upgrades to maintain current systems and integrate new ones may cause services interruptions, transaction processing errors and system conversion delays and may cause us to fail to comply with applicable laws. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully manage the risks associated with increased dependency on technology.. 14. Table of Contents. Internal control systems could fail to detect certain events.. We are subject to many operating risks, including, without limitation, data processing system failures and errors, and customer or employee fraud. There can be no assurance that such an event will not occur, and if such an event is not prevented or detected by our internal controls and does occur, and it is uninsured or is in excess of applicable insurance limits, it could have a significant adverse impact on our reputation in the business community and our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our operations could be interrupted if third party technology service providers experience difficulty, terminate their services or fail to comply with banking regulations.. We depend, and will continue to depend to a significant extent, on a number of relationships with third party technology service providers. Specifically, we utilize software and hardware systems for transaction processing, essential web hosting, debit and credit card processing, merchant bankcard processing, internet banking systems and other processing services from third party service providers. If these third party service providers experience difficulties or terminate their services, and we are unable to replace them with other qualified service providers, our operations could be interrupted. If an interruption were to continue for a significant period of time, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Confidential customer information transmitted through the Bank’s online banking service is vulnerable to security breaches and computer viruses which could expose the Bank to litigation and adversely affect its reputation and ability to generate deposits.. We provide our customers the ability to bank online. We rely heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information on our computer systems and networks. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet is a critical element of online banking. Our network could be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hacking, cyber-attacks, electronic fraudulent activity, attempted theft of financial assets, computer viruses, phishing schemes and other security problems. We cannot guarantee that any such failures, interruption or security breaches will not occur, or if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. While we have certain protective policies and procedures in place, the nature and sophistication of the threats continue to evolve. We may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses or to modify and enhance our protective measures. To the extent that our activities or the activities of our customers involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches and viruses could expose us to claims, litigation and other possible liabilities. Any inability to prevent cyber-attacks, security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing customers to lose confidence in our systems and could adversely affect our reputation and our ability to generate deposits.. We are subject to extensive regulation which could adversely affect our business.. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and regulations applicable to us are subject to modification and change. There are currently proposed laws, rules and regulations that, if adopted, would impact our operations. For more information on these issues, refer to the material set forth above under the heading \"Government Supervision and Regulation.\". The requirements imposed by our regulators and other laws, rules or regulations applicable to us are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect customers and other third parties that transact business with us, and are not designed to protect our shareholders. Consequently, these regulations may: (1) make compliance much more difficult or expensive, (2) restrict our ability to originate, broker or sell loans or accept certain deposits, (3) further limit or restrict the amount of commissions, interest or other charges earned on loans originated or sold by us, or (4) otherwise adversely affect our business or prospects for business. Moreover, banking regulators have significant discretion and authority to address what regulators perceive to be unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws or regulations by financial institutions and holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. The exercise of regulatory authority by banking regulators over us may have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, in order to conduct certain activities, including acquisitions, we are required to obtain regulatory approval. There can be no assurance that any required approvals can be obtained, or obtained without conditions or on a timeframe acceptable to us.. There are risks related to the use of brokered deposits.. The use of brokered deposits without regulatory approval from the FDIC is limited to banks that are “well capitalized” under applicable federal regulations. A portion of our local deposits are derived through a program known as the Certificate of Deposit Account Registry Service or (“CDARS”) and also through a program known as Insured Cash Sweep or (“ICS”). The CDARS program is a deposit swapping service that enables thousands of participating banks in the U.S. to provide their customers with access to millions of dollars of FDIC-insured certificates of deposit. The ICS service allows banks in the ICS network to place funds through the ICS network and receive matching deposits from other FDIC insured member banks. As of December 31, 2017, $66.3 million in deposits were derived through the CDARS and ICS programs. While these deposits share many of the key characteristics of core deposits, the FDIC considers such deposits to be brokered. Furthermore, in November, 2015, the FDIC issued updated regulations which take a more expansive view of what constitutes a brokered deposit. If our capital levels fall below “well capitalized” minimums and unless we obtain the FDIC’s consent, we may not have access to a significant source of funding, including CDARS and ICS deposits, which could force us to use more expensive sources of funding or to sell loans or other assets at a time when pricing for such assets is unfavorable. Should it become necessary, we would seek the FDIC’s consent to utilize CDARS and ICS deposits but there can be no assurance that we would receive their consent. If we could not raise additional capital, our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. 15. Table of Contents. Changes in accounting standards may impact how we report our consolidated financial condition and consolidated results of operations.. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the FASB changes the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in a restatement of prior period financial statements.. A natural disaster, such as earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, tsunamis, wildfires, droughts, floods, mudslides, hurricanes, tornados and other geologic processes could harm our business.. We are susceptible to the risks of natural disasters such as earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, tsunami, wildfires, droughts, floods, mudslides, hurricanes, tornados and other geologic processes. Historically, California has been vulnerable to natural disasters, and in 2017, California experienced extensive rainfall resulting in significant flooding and landslides, followed later in the year by the largest and most destructive wildfire season in state history. Natural disasters could harm our operations directly through interference with communications, including the interruption or loss of our websites, which would prevent us from gathering deposits, originating loans and processing and controlling our flow of business, as well as through the destruction of facilities and our operational, financial and management information systems. California has also historically experienced energy shortages, which, if they recur, could impair our business operation and the value of real estate in the areas affected.. Although we have implemented several back-up systems and protections and maintain business interruption insurance, these measures may not protect us fully from the effects of a natural disaster. The occurrence of natural disasters or energy shortages in California could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. A natural disaster outside California could negatively impact our purchased loan portfolio or our third party loan servicers.. Our purchased loan portfolio includes a significant amount of loans made to borrowers outside California. We also rely on third party loan servicers located outside of California. Therefore, we are susceptible to the risks of natural disasters outside California. Natural disasters could impact the operations of our loan servicers directly through interference with communications, including the interruption or loss of websites, destruction of facilities, operational, financial and management information systems which could prevent them from servicing our portfolio. Natural disasters outside California could also impact the underlying collateral and borrower’s ability to repay the loans for our purchased loan portfolios.. No assurance can be given that the Subordinated Notes will continue to qualify as Tier 2 Capital.. We believe that the Subordinated Notes meet the requirements of Tier 2 Capital in accordance with the Final Rules and current statutory guidance provided by the Federal Reserve Board. The Federal Reserve Board does not provide prior approval for the Subordinated Notes to be classified as Tier 2 Capital however, we did not receive any indication that the Subordinated Notes did not qualify as tier 2 capital during our most recent examination process with the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco In the event that the Subordinated Notes do not qualify, the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco may require the Holding Company to amend certain terms and conditions of the Subordinated Notes in order for such instruments to qualify as Tier 2 Capital. Under the terms of the Subordinated Notes, the Holding Company also has the option to redeem the Subordinated Notes upon the occurrence of such an event.. We cannot give any assurance as to whether the applicable requirements for Tier 2 Capital will change in the future. Even if the Subordinated Notes initially meet the requirements of Tier 2 Capital under the current regulations, if changes are made in the future, and unless the Subordinated Notes are grandfathered into the new regulations, they could become disqualified as Tier 2 Capital.. Our deposits may be subject to volatility. Our depositors could choose to withdraw their deposits from the Bank and place them into alternative investments, which might cause an increase in our funding costs and reduce our net interest income. Checking, savings and money market account balances can decrease when customers perceive that alternative investments such as the bonds or equities provide a better risk/return tradeoff.. At December 31, 2017, time certificates of deposit in excess of $250,000, excluding brokered time deposits, represented approximately 5% of our total deposit balances. Because these deposits are not covered by FDIC deposit insurance, they are considered volatile and could be subject to withdrawal. Withdrawal of a material amount of such deposits could adversely affect our liquidity, profitability, business prospects, results of operations and cash flows.. The FDIC has implemented a plan to increase the federal Deposit Insurance Fund, including additional future premium increases and special assessments.. As discussed above under the heading \"Government Supervision and Regulation,\" the FDIC has implemented a plan to increase insurance premiums and has imposed special assessments to rebuild and maintain the DIF, and any additional future premium increases or special assessments could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The Dodd-Frank Act broadened the base for FDIC insurance assessments. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act established 1.35% as the minimum DIF reserve ratio. The FDIC has determined that the fund reserve ratio should be 2.0% (which is beyond what is required by law) and has adopted a plan under which it will meet the statutory minimum reserve ratio of 1.35% by the statutory deadline of September 30, 2020. Accordingly, the deposit insurance assessments to be paid by the Bank could increase.. 16. Table of Contents. The impact of Basel III is uncertain.. Basel III set forth more robust global regulatory standards on capital adequacy, qualifying capital instruments, leverage ratios, market liquidity risk, and stress testing. The phase-in period for Basel III began on January 1, 2015 and will end on January 1, 2019. The implementation of these new standards is not expected to have an adverse impact on our financial position and future earnings due to, among other things, the increased Tier 1 capital ratio requirements. Additional information regarding Basel III is set forth below under the heading “Regulatory Capital Guidelines.”. Our exposure to operational, technological, and organization risk may adversely affect us.. Similar to other financial institutions, we are exposed to many types of operational and technological risk, including reputation, legal and compliance risk. Our ability to grow and compete is dependent on our ability to build or acquire the necessary operational and technological infrastructure and to manage the cost of that infrastructure while we expand and integrate acquired businesses. Operational risk can manifest itself in many ways, such as errors related to failed or inadequate processes, faulty or disabled computer systems, occurrences of fraud by employees or persons outside our company, and exposure to external events. We are dependent on our operational infrastructure to help manage these risks. From time to time, we may need to change or upgrade our technological infrastructure. We may experience disruption, and we may face additional exposure to these risks during the course of making such changes. If we acquire another financial institution or bank branch operations, we would face additional challenges when integrating different operational platforms, causing integration efforts to be more disruptive and /or more costly than anticipated.. Shareholders. In addition to risks and uncertainties that may affect the Company’s business, financial condition and the future results, shareholders may also be subject to the following risks:. There can be no assurance we will be able to continue paying cash dividends on our common stock at recent levels.. We may not be able to continue paying quarterly cash dividends commensurate with recent levels, given that the ability to pay cash dividends on our common stock depends on a variety of factors. The payment of dividends is subject to government regulation in that regulatory authorities may prohibit banks and bank holding companies from paying dividends that would constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice. The Federal Reserve Board generally prohibits a bank holding company from declaring or paying a cash dividend which would impose undue pressure on the capital of subsidiary banks or would be funded only through borrowing or other arrangements that might adversely affect a financial services holding company’s financial position. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System policy is that a bank holding company should not continue its existing rate of cash dividends on its common stock unless its net income is sufficient to fully fund each dividend and its prospective rate of earnings retention appears consistent with its capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. The power of the board of directors of an insured depository institution to declare a cash dividend or other distribution with respect to capital is subject to statutory and regulatory restrictions which limit the amount available for such distribution depending upon the earnings, financial condition and cash needs of the institution, as well as general business conditions.. We currently hold $24.0 million from our May 2017 public offering. Historically, our ability to pay cash dividends to our shareholders was dependent on our receipt of cash dividends from our subsidiary Bank. In addition to the restrictions imposed under federal law, banks chartered under California law generally may only pay a cash dividend to the extent such payment does not exceed the lesser of (i) retained earnings of the bank or (ii) the bank’s net income for its last three fiscal years less any distributions to shareholders during such period.. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for you to resell shares of our common stock owned by you at times or at prices you find attractive.. Stock price volatility may make it difficult for you to resell your common stock at the time and prices you find attractive. Our stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things:. <U+25CF>      Actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations;. <U+25CF>      Recommendations by securities analysts;. <U+25CF>      Operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us;. <U+25CF>      News reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry, including the failures of other financial institutions;. <U+25CF>      Perceptions in the marketplace regarding the Company and/or our competitors;. <U+25CF>      Public sentiments toward the financial services and banking industry generally;. <U+25CF>      New technology used, or services offered, by competitors;. <U+25CF>      Significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving the Company or our competitors;. <U+25CF>      Changes in government regulations; and. <U+25CF>      Geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts.. 17. Table of Contents. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results as evidenced by the recent volatility and disruption of capital and credit markets.. Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Market under the trading symbol “BOCH” and historically has been a low trading volume stock. The limited trading market for our common stock may cause fluctuations in the market value of our common stock to be exaggerated, leading to price volatility in excess of that which would occur in a more active trading market of our common stock. Future sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of the common stock. In addition, even if a more active market in our common stock develops, we cannot assure you that such a market will continue.. Anti-takeover provisions in our articles of incorporation could make a third party acquisition of us difficult.. In order to approve a merger or similar business combination with the owner of 20% or more of our common stock (an “Interested Shareholder”), our Articles of Incorporation contain provisions that require a supermajority vote of 66.7% of the outstanding shares of the common stock (excluding the shares held by the Interested Shareholder or its affiliates). These provisions further require that the per share consideration to be paid in such a transaction would have to equal or exceed the greater of (1) the highest per share price paid by the Interested Shareholder (a) within two years of the transaction proposal announcement date, or (b) the date the Interested Shareholder acquired a 20% -plus ownership interest (if the acquisition occurred less than two years before the transaction announcement) and (2) the fair market value of the Common Stock on (a) the transaction proposal announcement date, or (b) the date the Interested Shareholder acquired a 20% -plus ownership interest (if the acquisition occurred less than two years before the transaction announcement).. The operation of these provisions could result in the Company becoming a less attractive target for a would-be acquirer. As a consequence, it is possible that shareholders would lose an opportunity to be paid a premium for their shares in an acquisition transaction, even in circumstances where such action is favored by a majority of the Company's shareholders.. There may be future sales or other dilutions of our equity which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. We are not restricted from issuing additional shares of common stock, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive our common stock. In addition, we are not prohibited from issuing additional securities which are senior to our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend in part on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of any future offerings.. Shares of our common stock eligible for future issuance, including those that may be issued in connection with our various stock option and equity compensation plans, in possible acquisitions or in any other offering of our common stock for cash, could have a dilutive effect on the tangible book value of our common stock and could adversely affect our market price. Any future issuances of shares of our common stock may be dilutive to existing shareholders.. The holders of our trust preferred securities have rights that are senior to those of our holders of common stock and that may impact our ability to pay dividends on our common stock to our common shareholders.. At December 31, 2017, our subsidiary Bank of Commerce Holdings Trust II had outstanding $10.3 million of trust preferred securities. These securities are effectively senior to shares of common stock due to the priority of the underlying junior subordinated debentures. As a result, we must make dividend payments on our trust preferred securities before any dividends can be paid on our common stock; moreover, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution, or liquidation, all obligations outstanding with respect to our trust preferred securities must be satisfied before any distributions can be made to our shareholders. While we have the right to defer dividends on the trust preferred securities for a period of up to five years, no dividends may be paid to our common shareholders during that time if any such election has been made.. Our senior and subordinated debt agreements have provisions that may impact our ability to pay dividends on our common stock to our common shareholders. On December 10, 2015, we issued and sold $10.0 million in aggregate principal amount of fixed to floating rate Subordinated Notes pursuant to a private placement with certain institutional investors. Also on December 10, 2015, we entered into a loan agreement pursuant to which we obtained $10.0 million in senior debt secured by a pledge of all of the stock of the Bank. The Notes and debt agreements limit the payment of cash dividends to our common shareholders if the Company is not well capitalized or if there is an event of default as described by the agreements.. 18. Table of Contents"
