[1] "Item 1A.  RISK FACTORS. In addition to other information contained in this report, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business.. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry. Our consolidated retention for workers' compensation claims is $5.0 million per occurrence under our insurance arrangement with Chubb in the majority of states in which we operate.. We maintain our consolidated retention at $5.0 million per occurrence, except in Colorado and Maryland where our retention is at $2.0 million and $1.0 million per occurrence, respectively, due to regulatory requirements. The Company maintains its excess workers' compensation insurance coverage with Chubb through our AICE subsidiary. Additionally, Ecole's retention is at $5.0 million per occurrence for coverage in Arizona, Nevada and Utah. Thus, the Company has financial risk for most workers' compensation claims under $5.0 million on a per occurrence basis. This level of per occurrence retention may result in higher workers' compensation costs to us with a corresponding negative effect on our operating results and financial condition.. Adverse developments in the market for excess workers' compensation insurance could lead to increases in our costs.. To manage our financial exposure in the event of catastrophic injuries or fatalities, we maintain excess workers' compensation insurance. Changes in the market for excess workers' compensation insurance may lead to limited availability of such coverage, additional increases in our insurance costs or further increases in the amount for which we retain financial risk, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our ability to continue our business operations under our present service model is dependent on maintaining workers' compensation insurance coverage.. Our arrangement with Chubb to provide workers' compensation coverage to BBSI's PEO clients in California, Delaware, Virginia, Pennsylvania, North Carolina, New Jersey, West Virginia, Idaho and the District of Columbia extends through February 1, 2019, with the possibility of additional annual renewals. If Chubb is unwilling or unable to renew our arrangement in the future, we would need to seek alternative coverage. If replacement coverage were unavailable or available only on significantly less favorable terms, our business and results of operations would be materially adversely affected.. Failure to manage the severity and frequency of workplace injuries will increase our workers' compensation expenses.. Significant increases in the relative frequency or severity of workplace injuries due to failures to accurately assess potential risks or assure implementation of effective safety measures by our clients may result in increased workers' compensation claims expenses, with a corresponding negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. - 9 -. Our investment portfolio is subject to market and credit risks, which could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations.. We seek to hold a diversified portfolio of high-quality investments that is managed by a professional investment advisory firm in accordance with our investment policy and routinely reviewed by management and approved by the risk management committee. However, our investments are subject to general economic conditions and market risks as well as risks inherent to particular securities, including credit and liquidity risks. Our portfolio consists primarily of debt securities and is subject to the risk that certain investments may default or become impaired due to deterioration in the financial condition of one or more issuers of the securities. Although our investment strategy is designed to preserve our capital, we cannot be certain that our investment objectives will be achieved, and we could incur substantial realized and unrealized investment losses in future periods.. We may be unable to draw on our revolving credit facility in the future.. As discussed in more detail in \"Note 6. Revolving Credit Facility and Long-Term Debt\" to the consolidated financial statements incorporated into Item 8 of Part II of this report, our Credit Agreement with our principal bank, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association (the \"Bank\"), which expires July 1, 2018, provides for a revolving credit facility with a borrowing capacity of up to $25.0 million at December 31, 2017, to be used to finance working capital. There was no outstanding balance at that date. The Credit Agreement includes a standby letter of credit agreement providing for a sublimit of approximately $6.0 million in unsecured letters of credit, as well as a mortgage loan with a balance of approximately $4.4 million secured by our company office building in Vancouver, Washington.. If our business does not perform as expected, including if we generate less revenue than anticipated from our operations or encounter significant unexpected costs, we may fail to comply with the financial covenants under our credit facilities. If we do not comply with our financial covenants and we do not obtain a waiver or amendment from the Bank, the Bank may elect to cause all amounts owed to become immediately due and payable or may decline to renew our credit facility. In that event, we would seek to establish a replacement credit facility with one or more other lenders, including lenders with which we have an existing relationship, potentially on less desirable terms. There can be no guarantee that replacement financing would be available at commercially reasonable terms, if at all.. Our business is subject to risks associated with geographic market concentration.. Our California operations accounted for approximately 79% of our total revenues in 2017. As a result of the current importance of our California operations and anticipated continued growth from these operations, our profitability over the next several years is expected to be largely dependent on economic and regulatory conditions in California. If California experiences an economic downturn, or if the regulatory environment changes in a way that adversely affects our ability to do business or limits our competitive advantages, our profitability and growth prospects may be materially adversely affected.. In order to continue to grow revenues at or near current rates, we are dependent on retaining current clients and attracting new clients.. The Company has experienced significant growth in recent years. Revenues increased 9.5% in 2017 and 13.5% in 2016. There can be no assurance that we will continue to grow revenues at or near current rates of growth. Maintaining rates of growth at these levels becomes increasingly difficult as the size of the Company increases. Efforts to achieve business growth intensifies pressure on retaining current clients and attracting increasing numbers of new clients.. - 10 -. Economic conditions, particularly in California, may impact our ability to attract new clients and cause our existing clients to reduce staffing levels or cease operations.. Weak economic conditions typically have a negative impact on small-and mid-sized businesses, which make up the majority of our clients. In turn, these businesses could cut costs, including trimming employees from their payrolls, or closing locations or ceasing operations altogether. If weak economic conditions were to develop, these forces may result in decreased revenues due both to the downsizing of our current clients and increased difficulties in attracting new clients in a poor economic environment. In addition, weak economic conditions may also result in additional bad debt expense to the extent that existing clients cease operations.. Our business is subject to risks associated with healthcare reforms.. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the \"Acts\") subject us to potential penalties unless we offer our employees minimum essential healthcare coverage that is affordable. In order to comply with the employer mandate provision of the Acts, we offer health care coverage to all temporary and permanent employees eligible for coverage under the Acts other than employees of our PEO clients, which are responsible for providing required health care coverage to their employees. Designating employees as eligible is complex, and is subject to challenge by employees and the Internal Revenue Service. While we believe we have properly identified eligible employees, a later determination that we failed to offer the required health coverage to eligible employees could result in penalties that may materially harm our business. We cannot be certain that compliant insurance coverage will remain available to us on reasonable terms, and we could face additional risks arising from future changes to or repeal of the Acts or changed interpretations of our obligations under the Acts. There can be no assurance that we will be able to recover all related costs through increased pricing to our customers or that such costs will be recovered in the period in which costs are incurred, and the net financial impact on our results of operations could be significant.. If we are unable to maintain our brand image and corporate reputation, our business may suffer.. Our success depends in part on our ability to maintain our reputation for providing excellent service to our customers. Service quality issues, actual or perceived, even when false or unfounded, could tarnish the image of our brand and may cause customers to use other companies. Also, adverse publicity surrounding labor relations, data breaches, SEC investigations, securities class actions and the like, could negatively affect our overall reputation. Damage to our reputation could reduce demand for our services and thus have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our staffing business is vulnerable to economic fluctuations.. Demand for our staffing services is sensitive to changes in the level of economic activity in the regions in which we do business. As economic activity slows down, companies often reduce their use of temporary employees before undertaking layoffs of permanent staff, resulting in decreased demand for staffing services. During strong economic periods, on the other hand, we often experience shortages of qualified employees to meet customer needs, as occurred during 2017.. Because we assume the obligation to make wage, tax and regulatory payments in respect of some employees, we are exposed to client credit risks.. We generally assume credit risk associated with our clients' employee payroll obligations, including liability for payment of salaries and wages (including payroll taxes), as well as retirement benefits. These obligations are fixed whether or not the client makes payments to us as required by our services agreement. We attempt to mitigate this risk by invoicing our clients at the end of their specific payroll processing cycle. We also carefully monitor the timeliness of our clients' payments and impose strict credit standards on our customers. If we fail to successfully manage our credit risk, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. - 11 -. Increases in unemployment claims could raise our state and federal unemployment tax rates which we may not be able to pass on to our customers.. During weak economic conditions in our markets, the level of unemployment claims tends to rise as a result of employee layoffs at our clients and lack of work in our temporary staffing pool. The rise in unemployment claims often results in higher state and federal unemployment tax rates, which in most instances cannot be concurrently passed on to our customers either due to existing client services agreements or competitive pricing pressures. Increases in our state and federal unemployment tax rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, particularly in the early part of the calendar year when payroll tax rates are at or near their maximum.. If we are determined not to be an \"employer\" under certain laws and regulations, our clients may stop using our services, and we may be subject to additional liabilities.. We are the administrative employer in our co-employment relationships under the various laws and regulations of the Internal Revenue Service and the U.S. Department of Labor. If we are determined not to be the administrative employer under such laws and regulations and are therefore unable to assume our clients' obligations for employment and other taxes, our clients may be held jointly and severally liable for payment of such taxes. Some clients or prospective clients may view such potential liability as an unacceptable risk, discouraging current clients from continuing a relationship with us or prospective clients from entering into a new relationship with us. Any determination that we are not the administrative employer for purposes of ERISA could also adversely affect our cafeteria benefits plan operated under Section 125 of the Internal Revenue Code and result in liabilities to us under the plan.. We may be exposed to employment - related claims and costs and periodic litigation that could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We either co-employ employees in connection with our PEO client services agreements or place our employees in our customers' workplace in connection with our staffing business. As such, we are subject to a number of risks inherent to our status as the administrative employer, including without limitation:. •  claims of misconduct or negligence on the part of our employees, discrimination or harassment claims against our employees, or claims by our employees of discrimination or harassment by our clients;. •  immigration-related claims;. •  claims relating to violations of wage, hour and other workplace regulations;. •  claims relating to employee benefits, entitlements to employee benefits, or errors in the  calculation or administration of such benefits; and. •  possible claims relating to misuse of customer confidential information, misappropriation of assets or other similar claims.. If we experience significant incidents involving any of the above-described risk areas, we could face substantial out-of-pocket losses, fines or negative publicity. In addition, such claims may give rise to litigation, which may be time consuming, distracting and costly, and could have a material adverse effect on our business. With respect to claims involving our co-employer relationships, although our client services agreement provides that the client will indemnify us for any liability attributable to the conduct of the client or its employees, we may not be able to enforce such contractual indemnification, or the client may not have sufficient assets to satisfy its obligations to us. An increase in employment-related claims against us may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. - 12 -. We are dependent upon technology services and if we experience damage, service interruptions or failures in our computer and telecommunications systems, our client relationships and our ability to attract new clients may be adversely affected.. We rely extensively on our computer systems to manage our branch network, perform employment-related services and accounting and reporting functions, and summarize and analyze our financial results. Our systems are subject to damage or interruption from telecommunications failures, power-related outages, computer viruses and malicious attacks, security breaches and catastrophic events. If our systems are damaged or fail to function properly, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them, experience loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to manage our operations, and encounter a loss of client confidence. In addition, our clients' businesses may be adversely affected by any system or equipment failure or breach we experience. As a result, our relationships with our clients may be impaired, we may lose clients, our ability to attract new clients may be adversely affected, and we could be exposed to contractual liability. We may continue to invest in upgrades or replacements to our existing systems or additional security measures, each of which can involve substantial costs and risks relating to installation and implementation.. We depend on third-party software in order to provide our services and support our operations.. Significant portions of our services and operations rely on software that is licensed from third-party vendors. The fees associated with these license agreements could increase in future periods, resulting in increased operating expenses. If there are significant changes to the terms and conditions of our license agreements, or if we are unable to renew these license agreements, we may be required to make changes to our vendors or information technology systems. These changes may impact the services we provide to our clients or the processes we have in place to support our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business.. If our efforts to protect the security of personal information about our employees and clients are unsuccessful, we could be subject to costly government enforcement actions and private litigation and our reputation could suffer.. The nature of our business involves the receipt, storage, and transmission of personal and proprietary information about thousands of employees and clients. If we experience a significant data security breach or fail to detect and appropriately respond to a significant data security breach, we could be exposed to government enforcement actions and private litigation. In addition, our employees and clients could lose confidence in our ability to protect their personal and proprietary information, which could cause them to terminate their relationships with us. Any loss of confidence arising from a significant data security breach could hurt our reputation, further damaging our business.. We operate in a complex regulatory environment, and failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could adversely affect our business.. Corporate human resource operations are subject to a broad range of complex and evolving laws and regulations, including those applicable to payroll practices, benefits administration, employment practices, workers' compensation coverage, and privacy. Because our clients have employees in many states throughout the United States, we must perform our services in compliance with the legal and regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions. Some of these laws and regulations may be difficult to ascertain or interpret and may change from time to time. Violation of such laws and regulations could subject us to fines and penalties, damage our reputation, constitute a breach of our client agreements, impair our ability to obtain and renew required licenses, and decrease our profitability or competitiveness. If any of these effects were to occur, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected.. - 13 -. Changes in government regulations may result in restrictions or prohibitions applicable to the provision of employment services or the imposition of additional licensing, regulatory or tax requirements.. Our business is heavily regulated in most jurisdictions in which we operate. We cannot provide assurance that the states in which we conduct or seek to conduct business will not:. •  impose additional regulations that prohibit or restrict employment-related businesses like ours;. •  require additional licensing or add restrictions on existing licenses to provide employment-related services; or. •  increase taxes or make changes in the way in which taxes are calculated for providers of employment-related services.. Any changes in applicable laws and regulations may make it more difficult or expensive for us to do business, inhibit expansion of our business, or result in additional expenses that limit our profitability or decrease our ability to attract and retain clients.. The tax status of our insurance subsidiaries could be challenged resulting in an acceleration of income tax payments.. In conjunction with our workers' compensation program, we operate two wholly owned insurance subsidiaries, AICE and Ecole. We treat the two subsidiaries as insurance companies for federal income tax purposes with respect to our consolidated federal income tax return. If the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") were to determine that the subsidiaries do not qualify as insurance companies, in which insurance reserves are currently deductible, we could be required to make accelerated income tax payments to the IRS that we otherwise would have deferred until future periods.. We may find it difficult to expand our business into additional states due to varying state regulatory requirements.. Future growth in our operations depends, in part, on our ability to offer our services to prospective clients in new states, which may subject us to different regulatory requirements and standards. In order to operate effectively in a new state, we must obtain all necessary regulatory approvals, adapt our procedures to that state's regulatory requirements and modify our service offerings to adapt to local market conditions. As we expand into additional states, we may not be able to duplicate in other markets the financial performance experienced in our current markets.. We face competition from a number of other companies.. We face competition from various companies that may provide all or some of the services we offer. Our competitors include companies that are engaged in staffing services such as Robert Half International Inc., Kelly Services, Inc., and ManpowerGroup Inc.; companies that are focused on co-employment, such as Insperity, Inc., and TriNet Group, Inc.; and companies that primarily provide payroll processing services, such as Automatic Data Processing, Inc. and Paychex, Inc. We also face competition from information technology outsourcing firms and broad-based outsourcing and consulting firms that perform individual projects.. - 14 -. Several of our existing or potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do, which may enable them to:. •  develop and expand their infrastructure and service offerings more quickly and achieve greater cost efficiencies;. •  invest in new technologies;. •  expand operations into new markets more rapidly;. •  devote greater resources to marketing;. •  compete for acquisitions more effectively and complete acquisitions more easily; and. •  aggressively price products and services and increase benefits in ways that we may not be able to match financially.. In order to compete effectively in our markets, we must target our potential clients carefully, continue to improve our efficiencies and the scope and quality of our services, and rely on our service quality, innovation, education and program clarity. If our competitive advantages are not compelling or sustainable, then we are unlikely to increase or sustain profits and our stock price could decline.. We are dependent upon certain key personnel and recruitment and retention of key employees may be difficult and expensive.. We believe that the successful operation of our business is dependent upon our retention of the services of key personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer, other executive officers and area managers. We may not be able to retain all of our executives, senior managers and key personnel in light of competition for their services. If we lose the services of one of our executive officers or a significant number of our senior managers, our results of operations likely would be adversely affected.. We do not have an expansive in-house sales staff and therefore rely extensively on referral partners.. We maintain a minimal internal professional sales force, and we rely heavily on referral partners to provide referrals to new business. In connection with these arrangements, we pay a fee to referral partners for new clients. These referral firms and individuals do not have an exclusive relationship with us. If we are unable to maintain these relationships or if they increase their fees or lose confidence in our services, we could face declines in our business and additional costs and uncertainties as we attempt to hire and train an internal sales force.. We depend on attracting and retaining qualified employees; during periods of economic growth, our costs to do so increase and attracting and retaining people becomes more difficult.. Our teams of client-facing professionals are the foundation of our value proposition. Our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel could be impaired by economic conditions resulting in lower unemployment and increases in compensation. During periods of economic growth, we face increased competition for retaining and recruiting qualified personnel, which in turn leads to greater advertising and recruiting costs and increased salary expenses. If we cannot attract and retain qualified employees, the quality of our services may deteriorate and our reputation and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our service agreements may be terminated on short notice, leaving us vulnerable to loss of a significant amount of customers in a short period of time, if business or regulatory conditions change or events occur that negatively affect our reputation.. Our client services agreements are generally terminable on 30 days' notice by either us or our client. As a result, our clients may terminate their agreement with us at any time, making us particularly vulnerable to changing business or regulatory conditions or changes affecting our reputation or the reputation of our industry.. - 15 -. Our industry has at times received negative publicity that, if it were to become more prevalent, could cause our business to decline.. In the staffing and co-employment industries in which we compete, companies periodically have been tarnished by negative publicity or scandals from poor business judgment or even outright fraud. If we or our industry face negative publicity, customers' confidence in the use of temporary personnel or co-employed workers may deteriorate, and they may be unwilling to enter into or continue our staffing or co-employment relationships. If a negative perception were to prevail, it would be more difficult for us to attract and retain customers.. Changes in federal and state unemployment tax laws and regulations could adversely affect our business.. In past years, there has been significant negative publicity relating to the use of staffing or PEO companies to shield employers from poor unemployment history and high unemployment taxes. New legislation enacted at the state or federal level to try to counter this perceived problem could have a material adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to market our services or making our services less attractive to our customers and potential customers.. Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock. Our stock price may be volatile or may decline, resulting in substantial losses for our stockholders.. The market price of our Common Stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile for the foreseeable future. Important factors that may cause our trading price to decline include the factors listed below and other factors that may have a material adverse effect on our business or financial results, including those described above in this \"Risk Factors\" section:. •  actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations, including a significant slowdown in our revenue growth or material increase in our workers' compensation expense;. •  our failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or otherwise discover additional material errors in our financial reporting;. •  imposition of significant fines or penalties or other adverse action by the SEC or other regulatory authorities against the Company;. •  adverse developments in the legal proceedings described in \"Item 3. Legal Proceedings\";. •  our failure to meet financial projections or achieve financial results anticipated by analysts; or. •  changes in our board of directors or management.. Maryland law and our Charter and bylaws contain provisions that could make the takeover of the Company more difficult.. Certain provisions of Maryland law and our Charter and bylaws could have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring the Company, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions of our Charter and bylaws:. •  permit the Board of Directors to issue up to 500,000 shares of preferred stock with such rights and preferences, including voting rights, as the Board may establish, without further approval by the Company's stockholders, which could also adversely affect the voting power of holders of our Common Stock; and. •  vest the power to adopt, alter or repeal the Company's bylaws solely in the Board of Directors; the stockholders do not have that power.. - 16 -. In addition, the Company is subject to the Maryland control share act (the \"Control Share Act\"). Under the Control Share Act, a person (an \"Acquiring Person\") who acquires voting stock in a transaction (a \"Control Share Acquisition\") which results in its holding voting power within specified ranges cannot vote the shares it acquires in the Control Share Acquisition unless voting rights are accorded to such control shares by the holders of two-thirds of the outstanding voting shares, excluding the Acquiring Person and the Company's officers and directors who are also employees of the Company.. The Company is also subject to the provisions of Maryland law limiting the ability of certain Maryland corporations to engage in specified business combinations (the \"Business Combination Act\"). Subject to certain exceptions, the Business Combination Act prohibits a Maryland corporation from engaging in a business combination with a stockholder who, with its affiliates, owns 10% or more of the corporation's voting stock. These provisions will not apply to business combinations that are approved by the Board of Directors before the stockholder became an interested stockholder."
