[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following are some of the important factors that could affect our financial performance or could cause actual results to differ materially from estimates contained in our forward-looking statements. We may encounter risks in addition to those described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, may also impair or adversely affect our business, results of operation, financial condition and prospects.. 19. Risks Relating to Our Business. Our business depends on domestic spending by the oil and natural gas industry, and this spending and our business has been in the past, and may in the future be, adversely affected by industry and financial market conditions that are beyond our control.. We depend on our customers' willingness to make operating and capital expenditures to explore for, develop and produce oil and natural gas in the United States. Customers' expectations for lower market prices for oil and natural gas, as well as the availability of capital for operating and capital expenditures, may cause them to curtail spending, thereby reducing demand for our services and equipment.. Industry conditions are influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, such as the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, domestic and worldwide economic conditions, political instability in oil and natural gas producing countries and merger, acquisition and divestiture activity among oil and gas producers. Activities by non-governmental organizations to limit certain sources of funding for the energy sector or to restrict the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas may adversely affect the ability of certain of our customers to conduct operations. The volatility of the oil and natural gas industry; environmental and other governmental regulations regarding the exploration for and production and development of oil and natural gas reserves, and the consequent impact on exploration and production activity could adversely impact the level of drilling and workover activity by some of our customers. This reduction may cause a decline in the demand for our services or adversely affect the price of our services. In addition, reduced discovery rates of new oil and natural gas reserves in our market areas also may have a negative long-term impact on our business, even in an environment of stronger oil and natural gas prices, to the extent existing production is not replaced and the number of producing wells for us to service declines.. Oil and gas industry pricing remained relatively stable through the middle of 2014. However, beginning in the second half of 2014, oil prices declined substantially from historical highs and continued to decline through the first half of 2016. Prices gradually increased in late 2016 and throughout 2017, but remain significantly lower than the peak of prices in 2014. Oil and gas prices may remain at lower and more stable levels for the foreseeable future.. Limitations on the availability of capital, or higher costs of capital, for financing expenditures may cause oil and natural gas producers to make further reductions to capital budgets in the future even if oil or natural gas prices increase from current levels. Any such cuts in spending will curtail drilling programs as well as discretionary spending on well services, which may result in a reduction in the demand for our services, the rates we can charge and our utilization. In addition, certain of our customers could become unable to pay their suppliers, including us. Any of these conditions or events could adversely affect our operating results.. If oil and natural gas prices remain volatile, or if oil or natural gas prices remain low or decline further, the demand for our services could be adversely affected.. The demand for our services is primarily determined by current and anticipated oil and natural gas prices and the related general production spending and level of drilling activity in the areas in which we have operations. Volatility or weakness in oil or natural gas prices (or the perception that oil or natural gas prices will decrease) affects the spending patterns of our customers and may result in the drilling of fewer new wells or lower production spending on existing wells. This, in turn, could result in lower demand for our services and may cause lower rates and lower utilization of our well service equipment. If oil or natural gas prices continue to remain low or decline further, or if there is a reduction in drilling activities, the demand for our services and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Prices for oil and natural gas historically have been extremely volatile and are expected to continue to be volatile. The Cushing WTI Spot Oil Price averaged $48.69, $43.14 and $50.88 per bbl in 2015, 2016 and 2017, respectively. The Cushing WTI oil prices have declined from over $107 per bbl in June 2014 to $60 per bbl on December 29, 2017.  The Henry Hub Natural Gas Spot Price averaged $2.63, $2.52 and $2.99 per Mcf for 2015, 2016 and 2017, respectively.. Competition within the well services industry may adversely affect our ability to market our services.. The well services industry is highly competitive and fragmented and includes numerous small companies capable of competing effectively in our markets on a local basis, as well as several large companies that possess substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. Our larger competitors' greater resources could allow those competitors to compete more effectively than we can. The amount of equipment available may exceed demand, which could result in active price competition. Many contracts are awarded on a bid basis, which may further increase competition based primarily on price. In addition, adverse market conditions lower demand for well servicing equipment, which results in excess equipment and lower utilization rates. If adverse oil and natural gas market conditions persist or deteriorate further, our utilization rates may decline.. 20. We may require additional capital in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient cash internally or obtain alternative sources of capital on favorable terms, if at all. If we are unable to fund capital expenditures, our business may be adversely affected.. We anticipate we will need to make substantial capital investments in the future to purchase additional equipment to expand our services, refurbish our well servicing rigs and replace existing equipment including idled equipment brought back into service as activity levels improved. For the year ended December 31, 2016, we invested approximately $32.7 million in cash for capital expenditures. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we invested approximately $63.4 million in cash for capital expenditures and $67.5 million of capital leases. For 2018, we have currently budgeted $95.0 million for capital expenditures, including $40.0 million for capital leases, excluding acquisitions. Historically, we have financed these investments through internally generated funds, debt and equity offerings, our capital lease program and borrowings under the credit facilities. Please read Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation - Liquidity and Capital Resources\" for more information.. Our significant capital investments require cash that we could otherwise apply to other business needs. However, if we do not incur these expenditures while our competitors make substantial fleet investments, our market share may decline and our business may be adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash internally or obtain alternative sources of capital to fund our proposed capital expenditures and acquisitions, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and growth. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, dilution to existing stockholders may result. Adverse changes in the capital markets could make it difficult to obtain additional capital or obtain it at attractive rates.. Our future financial results could be adversely impacted by asset impairments or other charges.. We have recorded goodwill impairment charges and asset impairment charges in the past. We periodically evaluate our long-lived assets, including our property and equipment, and intangible assets. In performing these assessments, we project future cash flows on an undiscounted basis for other long-lived assets, and compare these cash flows to the carrying amount of the related assets. These cash flow projections are based on our current operating plans, estimates and judgmental assumptions. We perform the assessment of potential impairment for our long-lived assets whenever facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable due to various external or internal factors. If we determine that our estimates of future cash flows were inaccurate or our actual results are materially different from what we have predicted, we could record additional impairment charges in future periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. We have operated at a loss in the past, and there is no assurance of our profitability in the future.. Historically, we have experienced periods of low demand for our services and have incurred operating losses. In the future, we may not be able to reduce our costs, increase our revenues, or reduce our debt service obligations sufficient to achieve or maintain profitability and generate positive operating income. Under such circumstances, we may incur further operating losses and experience negative operating cash flow.. Our indebtedness could restrict our operations and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions.. On September 29, 2017, Basic and certain of its subsidiaries entered into a $100.0 million revolving credit facility, which was subsequently increased to $120.0 million (the \"Credit Facility\"). As of December 31, 2017, we had $64.0 million of borrowings of which $45.2 million is held in restricted cash to secure letters of credit. As of December 31, 2017, we had $11.5 million of available borrowing capacity under our Credit Facility. Also as of December 31, 2017, the aggregate principal amounts of the loan under our term loan agreement (the \"Term Loan Agreement\") was $162.5 million. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we made cash interest payments totaling $25.6 million.. Our current and future indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could:. • impair our ability to make investments and obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes;. • limit our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness;. • make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business, our industry or the economy in general as a substantial portion of our operating cash flow will be required to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, making it more difficult to react to changes in our business and in industry and market conditions;. 21. •limit our ability to obtain additional financing that may be necessary to operate or expand our business;. •put us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors that have less debt; and. •increase our vulnerability to interest rate increases to the extent that we incur variable rate indebtedness.. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or are otherwise unable to obtain the funds required to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants in instruments governing any existing or future indebtedness, we could be in default under the terms of such instruments. In the event of a default, the holders of our indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed under those instruments to be due and payable together with accrued and unpaid interest, secured lenders could foreclose on any of our assets securing their loans and we or one or more of our subsidiaries could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If our indebtedness is accelerated, or we enter into bankruptcy, we may be unable to pay all of our indebtedness in full. Any of the foregoing consequences could restrict our ability to grow our business and cause the value of our common stock to decline.. Our Credit Agreements impose restrictions on us that may affect our ability to successfully operate our business.. Our Credit Agreements impose limitations on our ability to take various actions, such as:. •limitations on the incurrence of additional indebtedness;. •restrictions on mergers, sales or transfers of assets without the lenders' consent; and. •limitations on dividends and distributions.. In addition, our Credit Agreements require us to maintain certain financial ratios and to satisfy certain financial conditions, some of which become more restrictive over time and may require us to reduce our debt or take some other action in order to comply with them. The failure to comply with any of these financial conditions, including the financial ratios or covenants, would cause a default under our Credit Agreements. A default under any of our indebtedness, if not waived, could result in the acceleration of such indebtedness or other indebtedness, in which case the debt would become immediately due and payable. In addition, a default or acceleration of any of our indebtedness under our Credit Agreements could result in a default under or acceleration of other indebtedness with cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions. In the event of any acceleration of our indebtedness, we may not be able to pay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it, and any holders of secured indebtedness may seek to foreclose on the assets securing such indebtedness. Even if new financing is available, it may not be available on terms that are acceptable to us. These restrictions could also limit our ability to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a downturn in our business or the economy in general, or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. We also may be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations imposed on us by the restrictive covenants under our Credit Agreements or existing limitations on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, including in connection with acquisitions. Please read Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Liquidity and Capital Resources  -  Credit Facility\" for a discussion of our Credit Agreements.. Variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly.. Borrowings under our Credit Facility bear interest at variable rates, exposing us to interest rate risk. If the interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed would remain the same, and our results of operations and cash flows for servicing our indebtedness would decrease.. Our actual financial results after emergence from our Chapter 11 Cases may not be comparable to our projections filed with the Bankruptcy Court in the course of our Chapter 11 Cases, and will not be comparable to our historical financial results as a result of the implementation of our Prepackaged Plan and the transactions contemplated thereby, as well as our adoption of fresh start accounting following emergence.. In 2016, we filed with the Bankruptcy Court projected financial information to demonstrate to the Bankruptcy Court the feasibility of our Prepackaged Plan and our ability to continue operations following our emergence from the Chapter 11 Cases. Those projections were prepared solely for the purpose of the Chapter 11 Cases and have not been, and will not be, updated on an ongoing basis and should not be relied upon by investors. At the time they were prepared, the projections reflected numerous assumptions concerning our anticipated future performance with respect to then prevailing and anticipated market and economic conditions that were and remain beyond our control and that may not materialize. Projections are inherently subject to substantial and numerous uncertainties and to a wide variety of significant business, economic and competitive risks and the assumptions underlying the projections and/or valuation estimates may prove to be wrong in material respects. Actual results will likely vary significantly from those contemplated by the projections. As a result, investors should not rely on those projections.. 22. Additionally, in accordance with the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification No. 852 - Reorganizations, we applied fresh start accounting in our financial statements which commenced with our financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2016. This materially impacted our 2016 operating results, as certain pre-bankruptcy debts were discharged in accordance with the Prepackaged Plan immediately prior to our emergence from bankruptcy, and our assets and liabilities were adjusted to their fair values upon emergence. As a result, our financial information subsequent to our emergence from bankruptcy is not comparable to our financial statements prior to emergence. Our operations are subject to inherent risks, including operational hazards and cyber-attacks. These risks may be self-insured, or may not be fully covered under our insurance policies.. Our operations are subject to hazards inherent in the oil and natural gas industry, such as, but not limited to, accidents, blowouts, explosions, craters, fires and oil spills. These conditions can cause:. •personal injury or loss of life;. •damage to or destruction of property, equipment and the environment; and. •suspension of operations.. The occurrence of a significant event or adverse claim in excess of the insurance coverage that we maintain or that is not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, claims for loss of oil and natural gas production and damage to formations can occur in the well services industry. Litigation arising from a catastrophic occurrence at a location where our equipment and services are being used may result in our being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting large claims.. As is customary in our industry, our service contracts generally provide that we will indemnify and hold harmless our customers from any claims arising from personal injury or death of our employees, damage to or loss of our equipment, and pollution emanating from our equipment and services. Similarly, our customers agree to indemnify and hold us harmless from any claims arising from personal injury or death of their employees, damage to or loss of their equipment, and pollution caused from their equipment or the well reservoir (including uncontained oil flow from a reservoir). Our indemnification arrangements may not protect us in every case. For example, from time to time we may enter into contracts with less favorable indemnities or perform work without a contract that protects us. In addition, our indemnification rights may not fully protect us if the customer is insolvent or becomes bankrupt, does not maintain adequate insurance or otherwise does not possess sufficient resources to indemnify us. In addition, our indemnification rights may be held unenforceable in some jurisdictions. Our inability to fully realize the benefits of our contractual indemnification protections could result in significant liabilities and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our operations are also subject to the risk of cyber-attacks. If our systems for protecting against cyber security risks prove to be insufficient, we could be adversely affected by, among other things, loss or damage of intellectual property, proprietary information, or customer data, having our business operations interrupted, and increased costs to prevent, respond to, or mitigate cyber-attacks. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition.. We maintain insurance coverage that we believe to be customary in the industry against many of these hazards. However, we do not have insurance against all foreseeable risks, either because insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs. As such, not all of our property is insured. We are also self-insured up to retention limits with regard to workers' compensation, general liability, and medical and dental coverage. We maintain accruals in our consolidated balance sheets related to self-insurance retentions by using third-party data and historical claims history. The occurrence of an event not fully insured against, or the failure of an insurer to meet its insurance obligations, could result in substantial losses. In addition, we may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable. Insurance may not be available to cover any or all of the risks to which we are subject, or, even if available, it may be inadequate, or insurance premiums or other costs could rise significantly in the future so as to make such insurance prohibitively expensive. It is likely that, in our insurance renewals, our premiums and deductibles will be higher, and certain insurance coverage either will be unavailable or considerably more expensive than it has been in the recent past. In addition, our insurance is subject to coverage limits, and some policies exclude coverage for damages resulting from environmental contamination.. We are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that may expose us to significant liabilities for penalties, damages or costs of remediation or compliance.. Our operations are subject to federal, regional, state and local laws and regulations relating to protection of natural resources and the environment, health and safety aspects of our operations and waste management, including the transportation and disposal of waste and other materials. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations on our operations, including the acquisition of permits to conduct regulated activities, the incurrence of capital expenditures to mitigate or prevent. 23. releases of materials from our facilities, the imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations and the application of specific health and safety criteria addressing worker protection. Regulations concerning equipment certification also create an ongoing need for regular maintenance.  Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in investigations, restrictions or orders suspending well operations, the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the revocation of permits and the issuance of corrective action orders, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. There is inherent risk of environmental costs and liabilities in our business as a result of our handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and oilfield and industrial wastes, air emissions and wastewater discharges related to our operations, and historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. Our water logistics segment includes disposal operations into injection wells that pose risks of environmental liability, including leakage from the wells to surface or subsurface soils, surface water or groundwater. Some environmental laws and regulations may impose strict liability, which means that in some situations, we could be exposed to liability as a result of our conduct that was without fault or lawful at the time it occurred or as a result of the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior operators or other third parties. Clean-up costs and other damages arising as a result of environmental laws and costs associated with changes in environmental laws and regulations could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We operate as a motor carrier and therefore are subject to regulation by the DOT and by other various state agencies. These regulatory authorities exercise broad powers, governing activities such as the authorization to engage in motor carrier operations and regulatory safety and hazardous materials labeling, placarding and marking. There are additional regulations specifically relating to the trucking industry, including testing and specification of equipment and product handling requirements. In addition, the trucking industry is subject to possible regulatory and legislative changes that may affect the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices or by changing the demand for common or contract carrier services or the cost of providing truckload services. Some of these possible changes include increasingly stringent environmental regulations, changes in the hours of service regulations which govern the amount of time a driver may drive in any specific period, require on board black box recorder devices or limits on vehicle weight and size.. Laws protecting the environment generally have become more stringent over time and could continue to do so, which could lead to material increases in costs for future environmental compliance and remediation. The modification or interpretation of existing laws or regulations, or the adoption of new laws or regulations, could curtail exploratory or developmental drilling for oil and natural gas and could limit well servicing opportunities. We may not be able to recover some or any of our costs of compliance with these laws and regulations from insurance.. Please read Items 1 and 2. \"Business and Properties  -  Environmental Regulation and Climate Change\" for more information on the environmental laws and government regulations that are applicable to us.. We may not be able to grow successfully through future acquisitions or successfully manage future growth, and we may not be able to effectively integrate the businesses we do acquire.. Our business strategy includes growth through the acquisitions of other businesses. We may not be able to continue to identify attractive acquisition opportunities or successfully acquire identified targets. In addition, we may not be successful in integrating our current or future acquisitions into our existing operations, which may result in unforeseen operational difficulties or diminished financial performance or require a disproportionate amount of our management's attention. Even if we are successful in integrating our current or future acquisitions into our existing operations, we may not derive the benefits, such as operational or administrative synergies, that we expected from such acquisitions, which may result in the commitment of our capital resources without the expected returns on such capital. Furthermore, competition for acquisition opportunities may escalate, increasing our cost of making further acquisitions or causing us to refrain from making additional acquisitions. We may also be limited in our ability to incur additional indebtedness in connection with or to fund future acquisitions under our credit agreements.. Whether we realize the anticipated benefits from an acquisition depends, in part, upon our ability to integrate the operations of the acquired business, the performance of the underlying product and service portfolio, and the performance of the management team and other personnel of the acquired operations. Accordingly, our financial results could be adversely affected from unanticipated performance issues, legacy liabilities, transaction-related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles, charges for impairment of long-term assets, credit guarantees, partner performance and indemnifications. While we believe that we have established appropriate and adequate procedures and processes to mitigate these risks, there is no assurance that these transactions will be successful.. 24. We depend on several significant customers, and a loss of one or more significant customers could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our customers consist primarily of major and independent oil and gas companies. During each of 2017 and 2016, our top five customers accounted for approximately 25% of our revenues. However, no individual customer composed greater than 10% of our revenues in either year. The loss of any one of our largest customers or a sustained decrease in demand by any of such customers could result in a substantial loss of revenues and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. If our customers delay paying or fail to pay a significant amount of our outstanding receivables, it could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition.. In most cases, we bill our customers for our services in arrears and are, therefore, subject to our customers delaying or failing to pay our invoices. In weak economic environments, we may experience increased delays and failures due to, among other reasons, a reduction in our customers' cash flow from operations and their access to the credit markets. If our customers delay paying or fail to pay us a significant amount of our outstanding receivables, it could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition.. Our industry has experienced a high rate of employee turnover. Any difficulty we experience replacing or adding personnel could adversely affect our business.. We may not be able to find enough skilled labor to meet our needs, which could limit our growth. Our business activity historically decreases or increases with the prices of oil and natural gas. We may have problems finding enough skilled and unskilled laborers in the future if the demand for our services increases. If we are not able to increase our service rates sufficiently to compensate for wage rate increases, our operating results may be adversely affected.. Other factors may also inhibit our ability to find enough workers to meet our employment needs. Our services require skilled workers who can perform physically demanding work. As a result of our industry volatility and the demanding nature of the work, workers may choose to pursue employment in fields that offer a more desirable work environment at wage rates that are competitive with ours. We believe that our success is dependent upon our ability to continue to employ and retain skilled technical personnel. Our inability to employ or retain skilled technical personnel generally could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. Our success depends on key members of our management, the loss of any of whom could disrupt our business operations.. We depend to a large extent on the services of some of our executive officers. The loss of the services of T. M. \"Roe\" Patterson, our President and Chief Executive Officer, or other key personnel could disrupt our operations. Although we have entered into employment agreements with Mr. Patterson and our other executive officers that contain, among other provisions, non-compete agreements, we may not be able to enforce the non-compete provisions in the employment agreements.. Adverse weather conditions may affect our operations.. Our operations may be materially affected by severe weather conditions in areas where we operate. Severe weather, such as blizzards, extreme temperatures and hurricanes may cause evacuation of personnel, curtailment of services and suspension of operations, and loss of or damage to equipment and facilities. Damage from any adverse weather conditions could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Weather conditions may also affect the price of crude oil and natural gas, and related demand for our services. Please read the risk factor above, \"If oil and natural gas prices remain volatile, or if oil or natural gas prices remain low or decline further, the demand for our services could be adversely affected.\". Climate change legislation or regulations restricting or regulating emissions of greenhouse gases could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for our field services.. In response to studies finding that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases from industrial and energy sources contribute to increases of carbon dioxide levels in the earth's atmosphere and oceans and contribute to global warming and other environmental effects, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (\"EPA\") has adopted various regulations under the federal Clean Air Act addressing emissions of greenhouse gases that may affect the oil and gas industry. In 2012 the EPA published a final rule that includes standards to reduce volatile organic compound (\"VOC\") emissions associated with oil and natural gas production.. The EPA published a final rule to reduce methane and additional VOC. 25. emissions from new oil and natural gas facilities in June 2016. More recently, the EPA announced that it will reconsider the standards and in June 2017, the EPA published a proposed rule to stay certain portions of the 2016 rules. The EPA has not yet published a final rule as, as a result EPA's 2016 standards are currently in effect, but, future implementation of the 2016 standards is uncertain at this time. Federal changes will affect state air permitting programs in states that administer the federal Clean Air Act under a delegation of authority, including states in which we have operations. Numerous legislative measures have been introduced in the past that would have imposed restrictions or costs on greenhouse gas emissions, including from the oil and gas industry. In addition, the United States has been involved in international negotiations regarding greenhouse gas reductions under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change which led to the signing of the Paris Agreement in December 2015, which became effective in November 2016. However, in August 2017, the U.S. State Department informed the United Nations of its intent to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. Additionally, certain U.S. states or regional coalitions of states have adopted measures regulating or limiting greenhouse gases from certain sources or have adopted policies seeking to reduce overall emissions of greenhouse gases. The adoption and implementation of any international treaty or of any federal or state legislation or regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of greenhouse gases from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to comply with such requirements and possibly require the reduction or limitation of emissions of greenhouse gases associated with our operations and other sources within the industrial or energy sectors. Such legislation or regulations could adversely affect demand for the production of oil and natural gas and thus reduce demand for the services we provide to oil and natural gas producers as well as increase our operating costs by requiring additional costs to operate and maintain equipment and facilities, install emissions controls, acquire allowances or pay taxes and fees relating to emissions, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Recently, activists concerned about the potential effects of climate change have directed their attention at sources of funding for fossil-fuel energy companies, which has resulted in certain financial institutions, funds and other sources of capital restricting or eliminating their investment in oil and natural gas activities. Ultimately, this could make it more difficult for our customers to secure funding for exploration and production activities, which could reduce demand for our services. Notwithstanding potential risks related to climate change, the International Energy Agency estimates that global energy demand will continue to rise and will not peak until after 2040 and that oil and natural gas will continue to represent a substantial percentage of global energy use over that time. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases may produce changes in climate or weather, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other climatic events, which if any such effects were to occur, could have adverse physical effects on our operations, physical assets and field services to exploration and production operators.. Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives related to hydraulic fracturing could result in operating restrictions or delays in the completion of oil and natural gas wells that may reduce demand for our well servicing activities and could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. We provide hydraulic fracturing and fluid handling services to our customers. Hydraulic fracturing is a commonly used process that involves injection of water, sand, and certain chemicals to fracture the hydrocarbon-bearing rock formation to allow flow of hydrocarbons into the wellbore. The federal Energy Policy Act of 2005 amended the Underground Injection Control (\"UIC\") provisions of the federal Safe Drinking Water Act (\"SDWA\") to expressly exclude certain hydraulic fracturing practices from the definition of \"underground injection.\" The EPA has asserted regulatory authority over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving diesel fuel and published proposed guidance relating to such practices. At the state level, several states in which we operate have adopted regulations requiring the disclosure of certain information regarding hydraulic fracturing fluids.. Scrutiny of hydraulic fracturing activities continues in other ways, as the EPA released its report on environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing in December 2016, concluding that hydraulic fracturing could impact drinking water resources. The federal Bureau of Land Management (\"BLM\"), an agency of the U.S. Department of the Interior published a final rule in March 2015 relating to the use of hydraulic fracturing techniques on public lands and disclosure of fracturing fluid constituents. However, in June 2016, a Wyoming federal judge struck down this final rule, finding that the BLM lacked authority to promulgate the rule, the BLM appealed the decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit in July 2016, the appellate court issued a ruling in September 2017 to vacate the Wyoming trial court decision and dismiss the lawsuit challenging the 2015 rule in response to the BLM's issuance of a proposed rulemaking to rescind the 2015 rule and, in December 2017, the BLM published a final rule rescinding the March 2015 rule. However, in January 2018, litigation challenging the BLM's rescission of the 2015 rule was brought in federal court. The EPA issued effluent limitations for the treatment of discharge of wastewater resulting from hydraulic fracturing activities in June 2016. In addition, some states and localities have adopted, and others are considering adopting, regulations or ordinances that could restrict hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances, that would require, with some exceptions, disclosure of constituents of hydraulic fracturing fluids, or that would impose higher taxes, fees or royalties on natural gas production. Recent research has linked disposal of produced water into disposal wells to an increase in earthquakes across the South and Midwest. Certain state agencies, including those in Texas and Oklahoma, have implemented regulations authorizing the imposition of certain limitations on existing wells if. 26. seismic activity increases in the area of an injection well, including a temporary injection ban. For example, in Oklahoma, the Oklahoma Corporation Commission (\"OCC\") has implemented a variety of measures, including the adoption of the National Academy of Science's \"traffic light system\", pursuant to which the agency reviews new disposal well applications and may restrict operations at existing wells. Beginning in 2013, the OCC has ordered the reduction of disposal volumes into the Arbuckle formation. More recently, the OCC directed the shut in of a number of disposal wells due to increased earthquake activity in the Arbuckle formation and imposed further disposal well volume reductions in the Edmond area. Moreover, public debate over hydraulic fracturing and shale gas production has been increasing, and has resulted in delays of well permits in some areas.. Increased regulation and attention given to the hydraulic fracturing process could lead to greater opposition, including litigation, to oil and gas production activities using hydraulic fracturing techniques. Additional legislation or regulation could also lead to operational delays or increased operating costs in the production of oil and natural gas, including from the developing shale plays, incurred by our customers or could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing. The adoption of any federal, state or local laws or the implementation of regulations or ordinances restricting or increasing the costs of hydraulic fracturing could potentially increase our costs of operations and cause a decrease in the completion of new oil and natural gas wells and an associated decrease in demand for our well servicing activities, any or all of which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Potential listing of species as \"endangered\" under the federal Endangered Species Act could result in increased costs and new operating restrictions or delays on our oil and natural gas exploration and production customers, which could adversely reduce the amount of contract drilling services that we provide to such customers.. The federal Endangered Species Act, referred to as the \"ESA,\" and analogous state laws regulate a variety of activities, including oil and gas development, which could have an adverse effect on species listed as threatened or endangered under the ESA or their habitats. The designation of previously unidentified endangered or threatened species could cause oil and natural gas exploration and production operators to incur additional costs or become subject to operating delays, restrictions or bans in affected areas, which impacts could adversely reduce the amount of drilling activities in affected areas, including support services that we provide to such operators under our contract drilling services segment. Numerous species have been listed or proposed for protected status in areas in which we provide or could in the future provide field services. Certain wildflower species, among others, are also species that have been or are being considered for protected status under the ESA and whose range can coincide with oil and natural gas production activities. The presence of protected species in areas where operators whom we provide contract drilling services conduct exploration and production operations could impair such operators' ability to timely complete well drilling and development and, consequently, adversely affect the amount of contract drilling or other field services that we provided to such operators, which reduction of services could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.. Our ability to use net operating losses and credit carry-forwards to offset future taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes may be limited as a result of issuances of equity or other transactions.. In general, under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"), a corporation that undergoes an \"ownership change\" is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating losses (\"NOLs\") and certain tax credits, to offset future taxable income and tax. In general, an ownership change occurs if the aggregate stock ownership of certain stockholders changes by more than 50 percentage points over such stockholders' lowest percentage ownership during the testing period (generally three years).. In connection with our emergence from our Chapter 11 Cases, we experienced an ownership change for the purposes of Section 382 of the Code.  The ownership changes have not resulted in the expiration of any NOLs generated prior to the emergence date.  However, any subsequent ownership changes under the provisions of Section 382 could adversely affect the use of NOLs in future periods.  The amount of consolidated Federal NOLs available as of December 31, 2017 is approximately $664.8 million.. Recently enacted U.S. tax legislation, as well as future U.S. tax legislation, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") was enacted on December 22, 2017, which made significant changes to U.S. federal income tax laws. The Tax Act made broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code which impact 2017 and 2018 and includes, among other things, reducing the U.S. corporate income tax rate to 21%, partially limits the deductibility of business interest expense and net operating losses, limits the deductibility for certain types of executive compensation, and allows the immediate deduction of certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time.  Although we have estimated the impact of the newly enacted tax legislation by incorporating assumptions based upon our current. 27. interpretation and analysis to date, the Tax Act is complex and far-reaching and we have not completed our analysis of the actual impact of its enactment on us.  The provisional estimates may be impacted by the need for further analysis of the Tax Act which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock or Warrants. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Delaware law, contain provisions that could discourage acquisition bids or merger proposals, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. If our board of directors elects to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders, including:. •a classified board of directors, so that only approximately one third of our directors are elected each year;. •limitations on the removal of directors;. •the prohibition of stockholder action by written consent;. •limitations on the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings; and. • advance notice provisions for stockholder proposals and nominations for elections to the board of directors to be acted upon at meetings of stockholders.. Delaware law prohibits us from engaging in any business combination with any \"interested stockholder,\" meaning generally that a stockholder who beneficially owns more than 15% of our stock cannot acquire us for a period of three years from the date this person became an interested stockholder, unless various conditions are met, such as approval of the transaction by our board of directors.. Because we have no plans to pay dividends on our common stock, investors must look solely to stock appreciation for a return on their investment in us.. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. Any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other considerations that the board of directors deems relevant. Investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize a return on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock.. Our outstanding warrants are exercisable for shares of our common stock. The exercise of such equity instruments could have a dilutive effect to stockholders of the Company.. We currently have outstanding warrants that are exercisable into 2,066,627 shares of our common stock at an initial exercise price of $55.25 per warrant. The exercise of these warrants into our common stock could have a dilutive effect to the holdings of our existing stockholders. The warrants will not expire until December 23, 2023 and may create an overhang on the market for, and have a negative effect on the market price of, our common stock.. There is no guarantee that our outstanding warrants will become in the money, and unexercised warrants may expire worthless. Further, the terms of such warrants may be amended.. As long as our stock price is below $55.25 per share, the warrants will have limited economic value, and they may expire worthless. In addition, the warrant agreement provides that the terms of the warrants may be amended without the consent of any holder to cure any ambiguity or correct any defective provision, but requires the approval by the holders of at least a certain percentage of the then-outstanding warrants originally issued to make any change that adversely affects the interests of the holders. Accordingly, we may amend the terms of the warrants in a manner adverse to a holder if holders of at least a certain percentage of the then outstanding warrants approve of such amendment.. Future sales or the availability for sale of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that these sales may occur, could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future sales of equity securities.. Our Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation authorizes us to issue 80,000,000 shares of common stock, of which an estimated 26,416,209 shares of common stock were outstanding as of February 28, 2018. This number. 28. includes shares issued in connection with our emergence from bankruptcy, almost all of which are freely transferable without restriction or further registration pursuant to Section 1145 of the Bankruptcy Code. We also have 2,428,255 shares of common stock authorized for issuance as equity awards under the Basic Energy Services, Inc. Management Incentive Plan and Non-Employee Director Incentive Plan, respectively. As of February 28, 2018, 654,016 shares are issuable pursuant to outstanding options and 282,190 shares are issuable pursuant to outstanding restricted stock and restricted stock unit awards.. A large percentage of our shares of common stock are held by a relatively small number of investors. We entered into a registration rights agreement, (the \"Registration Rights Agreement\") with certain of those investors pursuant to which we filed a registration statement with the SEC to facilitate potential future sales of such shares by them. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or even the perception that these sales might occur, could impair our ability to raise capital through a future sale of, or pay for acquisitions using, our equity securities and may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.. We may issue shares of our common stock or other securities from time to time as consideration for future acquisitions and investments. If any such acquisition or investment is significant, the number of shares of our common stock, or the number or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of other securities that we may issue may in turn be substantial. We may also grant registration rights covering those shares of our common stock or other securities in connection with any such acquisitions and investments.. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common stock will have on the price at which our common stock trades or the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock."
