[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations are subject to various risks and uncertainties. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Form 10-K, including those risks set forth under the heading entitled \"Forward-Looking Statements\" and in other documents that we file with the SEC and the CSA, before making any investment decision with respect to our common shares or debt securities. If any of the risks or uncertainties actually occur or develop, our business, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or future growth prospects could change, and such change could be materially adverse. Under these circumstances, the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment in our common shares and/or debt securities.. Legal and Reputational Risks. We are the subject of a number of ongoing legal proceedings, investigations and inquiries respecting certain of our historic distribution, marketing, pricing, disclosure and accounting practices, including our former relationship with Philidor, which have had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations, could result in additional claims and material liabilities, and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. We have been or are currently the subject of a number of ongoing legal proceedings and investigations and inquiries by governmental agencies, including the following: (i) investigations by the U.S. Attorney's Offices for the District of Massachusetts and the Southern District of New York relating to certain matters, including our patient assistance programs (including financial support provided to patients), our former relationship with Philidor and other pharmacies, our accounting treatment for sales by specialty pharmacies, information provided to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, our pricing (including discounts and rebates), marketing and distribution of our products, our compliance program, and employee compensation; (ii) the investigation by the SEC of the Company relating to certain matters, including our former relationship with Philidor, our accounting practices and policies and our public disclosures; (iii) an investigation by the State of North Carolina Department of Justice relating to certain matters, including the production, marketing, distribution, sale and pricing of, and patient assistance programs covering, our Nitropress®, Isuprel® and Cuprimine® products and our pricing decisions for certain of our other products; (iv) a request for documents and other information received by the Company from the Autorité des marches financiers (the \"AMF\") (our principal securities regulator in Canada) relating to certain matters, including with respect to our former relationship with Philidor and our accounting practices and policies; (v) the pending investigation by the California Department of Insurance relating to our former relationship with Philidor and certain California-based pharmacies, the marketing and distribution of our products in California, the billing of insurers for our products being used by California residents, and other matters; (vi) a number of purported class action securities litigations in the U.S. (including related opt-out actions) and Canada have been instituted, the allegations of which relate to, among other things, allegedly false and misleading statements by the Company and/or failures to disclose information about our business and prospects, including relating to drug pricing, our policies and accounting practices, our use of specialty pharmacies, and our former relationship with Philidor and (vii) purported class actions under the federal RICO statute on behalf of third-party payors arising out of our pricing and use of specialty pharmacies, and our former relationship with Philidor. In addition, we could, in the future, face additional legal proceedings and investigations and inquiries by governmental agencies relating to these or similar matters. Philidor and certain of its executives and employees are also subject to disputes with third party payors and governmental investigations related to Philidor's business practices and relationship with the Company which may result in claims being asserted against the Company. For more information regarding legal proceedings, see Note 21, \"LEGAL PROCEEDINGS\" to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements.. We are unable to predict how long such proceedings, investigations and inquiries will continue, but we anticipate that we will continue to incur significant costs in connection with these matters and that these proceedings, investigations and inquiries will result in a substantial distraction of management's time, regardless of the outcome. These proceedings, investigations and inquiries may result in damages, fines, penalties, consent orders or other administrative sanctions (including exclusion from federal programs) against the Company and/or certain of our officers, or in changes to our business practices, which, in turn, may result in or may contribute to an inability by us to meet the financial covenants contained in our Credit Agreement. Furthermore, publicity surrounding these proceedings, investigations and inquiries or any enforcement action as a result thereof, even if ultimately resolved favorably for us, coupled with the ongoing intensified public scrutiny of our Company and certain of its practices, could result in additional investigations and legal proceedings. As a result, these proceedings, investigations and inquiries could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. 12. Our historical business practices, including with respect to past pricing practices, are under scrutiny. Any changes to our practices relating to pricing or the current prices of products, whether imposed, legislated or voluntary, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. We are under scrutiny with respect to our business historical practices (including with respect to past pricing practices), including investigations by the U.S. Attorney's Offices for the District of Massachusetts and the Southern District of New York, the State of North Carolina Department of Justice, various purported class action suits against us in the U.S. (including related opt-out actions) and Canada and purported class actions under the federal RICO statute on behalf of third-party payors. We are unable to predict how such proceedings, investigations and inquiries will impact our current business practices, including with respect to pricing, or the prices of our products, including whether we will be required to impose pricing freezes or controls, pricing reductions (including on a retroactive basis) or other price regulation for some or all of our products.. In addition, in recent years, in the U.S., state and federal governments have considered implementing legislation that would control or regulate the prices of drugs, and the new administration has expressed support for lowering the cost of drug prices. Other countries have announced or implemented measures on pricing, including suspensions on price increases, prospective and possibly retroactive price reductions and other recoupments. These measures and proposed measures vary by country. These measures and these proposed measures and legislation, if implemented, could lead to impairment of certain of our intangible assets which could be significant, and/or could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. We are involved in various other legal and governmental proceedings that are uncertain, costly and time-consuming and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. We are involved in a number of other legal and governmental proceedings and may be involved in additional litigation in the future. These proceedings are complex and extended and occupy the resources of our management and employees. These proceedings are also costly to prosecute and defend and may involve substantial awards or damages payable by us if not found in our favor. We may also be required to pay substantial amounts or grant certain rights on unfavorable terms in order to settle such proceedings. Defending against or settling such claims and any unfavorable legal decisions, settlements or orders could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline. For more information regarding legal proceedings, see Note 21, \"LEGAL PROCEEDINGS\" to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements.. For example, the pharmaceutical industry, and our Company in particular, has been the focus of both private payor and governmental concern regarding pricing of pharmaceutical products. Related actions, including Congressional and other governmental investigations and litigation, are costly and time-consuming, and adverse resolution of such actions or changes in our business practices, such as our approach to the pricing of our pharmaceutical products, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. Further, the pharmaceutical and medical device industries historically have generated substantial litigation concerning the manufacture, use and sale of products and we expect this litigation activity to continue. As a result, we expect that patents related to our products will be routinely challenged (as is the case with the patent infringement proceeding commenced in connection with our Xifaxan® product and related patents), and the validity or enforceability of our patents may not be upheld. In order to protect or enforce patent rights, we may initiate litigation against third parties. Our patents may also be challenged in administrative proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office and patent offices outside of the United States. If we are not successful in defending an attack on our patents and maintaining exclusive rights to market one or more of our products still under patent protection, we could lose a significant portion of sales in a very short period. We may also become subject to infringement claims by third parties and may have to defend against charges that we infringed or otherwise violated patents or the intellectual property or proprietary rights of third parties. If we infringe or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of others, we could lose our right to develop, manufacture or sell products, including our generic products, or could be required to pay monetary damages or royalties to license proprietary rights from third parties, which could be substantial.. In addition, in the U.S., it has become increasingly common for patent infringement actions to prompt claims that antitrust laws have been violated during the prosecution of the patent or during litigation involving the defense of that patent. Such claims by direct and indirect purchasers and other payers are typically filed as class actions. The relief sought may include treble damages and restitution claims. Similarly, antitrust claims may be brought by government entities or private parties following settlement of patent litigation, alleging that such settlements are anti-competitive and in violation of antitrust laws. In the U.S. and Europe, regulatory authorities have continued to challenge as anti-competitive so-called \"reverse payment\" settlements between branded and generic drug manufacturers. We may also be subject to other antitrust litigation involving competition claims unrelated to. 13. patent infringement and prosecution. For example, we are currently defending a class action complaint alleging that defendants engaged in an anticompetitive scheme to eliminate price competition on certain contact lens lines through the use of unilateral pricing policies. For more information regarding legal proceedings, see Note 21, \"LEGAL PROCEEDINGS\" to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements. A successful antitrust claim by a private party or government entity against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. We depend on third parties to meet their contractual, legal, regulatory, and other obligations.. We rely on distributors, suppliers, contract research organizations, vendors, service providers, business partners and other third parties to research, develop, manufacture, distribute, market and sell our products, as well as perform other services relating to our business. We rely on these third parties to meet their contractual, legal, regulatory and other obligations. A failure to maintain these relationships or poor performance by these third parties could negatively impact our business. In addition, we cannot guarantee that the contractual terms and protections and compliance controls, policies and procedures we have put in place will be sufficient to ensure that such third parties will meet their legal, contractual and regulatory obligations or that these terms, controls, policies, procedures and other protections will protect us from acts committed by our agents, contractors, distributors, suppliers, service providers or business partners that violate contractual obligations or the laws or regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including matters respecting anti-corruption, fraud, kickbacks and false claims, pricing, sales and marketing practices, privacy laws and other legal obligations. Any failure of such third parties to meet these legal, contractual and regulatory obligations or any improper actions by such third parties or even allegations of such non-compliance or actions could damage our reputation, adversely impact our ability to conduct business in certain markets and subject us to civil or criminal legal proceedings and regulatory investigations, monetary and non-monetary damages and penalties and could cause us to incur significant legal and investigatory fees and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline. For example, the allegations about the activities of Philidor and our former relationship with Philidor have resulted in a number of investigations, inquiries and legal proceedings against us, which may damage our reputation and result in damages, fines, penalties or administrative sanctions against the Company and/or certain of our officers. For more information regarding legal proceedings, see Note 21, \"LEGAL PROCEEDINGS\" to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements.. If our products cause, or are alleged to cause, serious or widespread personal injury, we may have to withdraw those products from the market and/or incur significant costs, including payment of substantial sums in damages, and we may be subject to exposure relating to product liability claims. In addition, our product liability self-insurance program may not be adequate to cover future losses.. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to significant product liability and other claims in the event that the use of our products caused, or is alleged to have caused, adverse effects. For example, we have been named as a defendant (along with other entities) in certain lawsuits in the United States and Canada in which the plaintiffs have made certain product liability claims respecting Shower to Shower® (a product we acquired in 2012). For more information regarding legal proceedings, see Note 21, \"LEGAL PROCEEDINGS\" to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements. These and other product liability proceedings may be costly to prosecute and defend and may involve substantial awards or damages payable by us if not found in our favor.. Furthermore, our products may cause, or may appear to have caused, adverse side effects (including death) or potentially dangerous drug interactions that we may not learn about or understand fully until the drug has been administered to patients for some time.  The withdrawal of a product following complaints and/or incurring significant costs, including the requirement to pay substantial damages in personal injury cases or product liability cases, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. In addition, since March 31, 2014, we have self-insured substantially all of our product liability risk for claims arising after that date. We periodically evaluate and adjust our claims reserves to reflect trends in our own experience, as well as industry trends. However, historical loss trends may not be adequate to cover future losses, as historical trends may not be indicative of future losses. If ultimate results exceed our estimates, this would result in losses in excess of our reserved amounts. If we were required to pay a significant amount on account of these liabilities for which we self-insure, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. 14. Our marketing, promotional and business practices, as well as the manner in which sales forces interact with purchasers, prescribers and patients, are subject to extensive regulation and any material failure to comply could result in significant sanctions against us.. The marketing, promotional and business practices of pharmaceutical and medical device companies, as well as the manner in which companies' in-house or third party sales forces interact with purchasers, prescribers, and patients, are subject to extensive regulation, enforcement of which may result in the imposition of civil and/or criminal penalties, injunctions, and/or limitations on marketing practice for some of our products and/or pricing restrictions or mandated price reductions for some of our products. Many companies, including us, have been the subject of claims related to these practices asserted by federal authorities. These claims have resulted in fines and other consequences, such as entering into corporate integrity agreements with the U.S. government. Companies may not promote drugs for \"off-label\" uses-that is, uses that are not described in the product's labeling and that differ from those approved by the FDA, Health Canada, EMA or other applicable regulatory agencies. A company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies (such as entering into corporate integrity agreements with the U.S. government), as well as criminal sanctions. In addition, management's attention could be diverted from our business operations and our reputation could be damaged. For more information regarding legal proceedings, see Note 21, \"LEGAL PROCEEDINGS\" to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements.. Debt-related Risks. Our Credit Agreement and the indentures governing our senior notes impose restrictive and financial covenants on us. Our failure to comply with these covenants could trigger events, which could result in the acceleration of the related debt, a cross-default or cross-acceleration to other debt, foreclosure upon any collateral securing the debt and termination of any commitments to lend, each of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and would cause the market value of our common shares and/or securities to decline and could lead to bankruptcy or liquidation.. Our Credit Agreement and the various indentures governing our senior notes contain covenants that restrict the way we conduct business and require us to satisfy certain financial tests in order to incur debt or take other actions.  Additionally, our Credit Agreement contains financial covenants that, for example, require us to maintain certain financial ratios at fiscal quarter end.. The Company's Credit Agreement contains specified quarterly financial maintenance covenants (consisting of a secured leverage ratio and an interest coverage ratio). As of December 31, 2017, we were in compliance with all financial maintenance covenants related to our outstanding debt. However, we can make no assurance that we will be able to comply with the restrictive and financial covenants contained in the Credit Agreement and indentures in the future. Based on our current forecast for the next twelve months from the date of issuance of this Form 10-K, we expect to remain in compliance with these financial maintenance covenants and meet our debt obligations over that same period. In the event that we perform below our forecasted levels, we will implement certain additional cost-efficiency initiatives, such as rationalization of selling, general and administrative expenses (\"SG&A\") and R&D spend, which would allow us to continue to comply with the financial maintenance covenants. We may consider taking other actions, including divesting other businesses and refinancing debt as deemed appropriate. If we perform below our forecasted levels and the actions referenced above are not effective, we would fail to comply with one or both of these financial maintenance covenants.  In that instance, we would be in default, and our lenders would be permitted to accelerate our debt unless we could obtain an amendment.  If our debt was accelerated, we would not have sufficient funds to repay our debt absent a refinancing, and we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain a refinancing.. Our inability to comply with the covenants in our debt instruments could lead to a default or an event of default under the terms thereof, for which we may need to seek relief from our lenders and noteholders in order to waive the associated default or event of default and avoid a potential acceleration of the related indebtedness or cross-default or cross-acceleration to other debt. There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain such relief on commercially reasonable terms or otherwise and we may be required to incur significant additional costs. In addition, the lenders under our Credit Agreement and holders of our senior notes may impose additional operating and financial restrictions on us as a condition to granting any such waiver. If an event of default is not cured or is not otherwise waived, a majority of lenders in principal amount under our Credit Agreement or the trustee or holders of at least 25% in principal amount of a series of our senior notes may accelerate the maturity of the related debt under these agreements, foreclose upon any collateral securing the debt and terminate any commitments to lend, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and would cause the market value of our securities to decline. Furthermore, under these circumstances, we may not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations and we may be unable to obtain alternative financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. In such circumstances, we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation and, as a result, investors could lose all or a portion of their investment in our securities.. 15. To service our debt, we will be required to generate a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, and any failure to meet our debt obligations would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. For details regarding our debt and the maturity dates thereof, see Note 11, \"FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS\" to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements. Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations will depend principally upon our future operating performance. As a result, prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, may affect our ability to make payments on our debt. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. Alternatively, as we have done in the past, we may also elect to refinance certain of our debt, for example, to extend maturities. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. If we are unable to access the capital markets, whether because of the condition of those capital markets or our own financial condition or reputation within such capital markets, we may be unable to refinance our debt. In addition, any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. Further, given our capital structure, any refinancing of our senior unsecured debt may be with secured debt, thereby increasing our secured leverage ratio. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. Repayment of our indebtedness is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. Each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. Certain non-guarantor subsidiaries include non-U.S. subsidiaries that may be prohibited by law or other regulations from distributing funds to us and/or we may be subject to payment of taxes and withholdings on such distributions. In the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries or receive cash via services rendered and intellectual property licensed, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness.. Our ability to continue to reduce our indebtedness will depend upon factors including our future operating performance, our ability to access the capital markets to refinance existing debt and prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We can provide no assurance of the amount by which we will reduce our debt, if at all. In addition, servicing our debt will result in a reduction in the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes, including operating costs and capital expenditures that could improve our competitive position and results of operations.. We have incurred significant indebtedness, which restricts the manner in which we conduct business.. We have incurred significant indebtedness, including in connection with our prior acquisitions. We may incur additional long-term debt and working capital lines of credit to meet future financing needs, subject to certain restrictions and prohibitions under the agreements governing our indebtedness, which would increase our total debt. This additional debt may be substantial and some of this indebtedness may be secured.. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictive covenants which impose certain limitations on the way we conduct our business, including limitations on the amount of additional debt we are able to incur, prohibitions on incurring additional debt if certain financial covenants are not met and restrictions on our ability to make certain investments and other restricted payments. Any additional debt, to the extent we are able to incur it, may further restrict the manner in which we conduct business. Such restrictions, prohibitions and limitations could impact our ability to implement elements of our strategy, including in the following ways:. • our flexibility to plan for, or react to, competitive challenges in our business and the pharmaceutical and medical device industries may be compromised;. • we may be put at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors that do not have as much debt as we have, and competitors that may be in a more favorable position to access additional capital resources;. • our ability to make acquisitions and execute business development activities through acquisitions will be limited and may, in future years, continue to be limited; and. • our ability to resolve regulatory and litigation matters may be limited.. In the past, our credit ratings have been downgraded. Any further downgrade in our corporate credit ratings or other credit ratings may increase our cost of borrowing and may negatively impact our ability to raise additional debt capital.. 16. We are exposed to risks related to interest rates.. Our senior secured credit facilities bear interest based on U.S. dollar London Interbank Offering Rates, or U.S. Prime Rate, or Federal Funds effective rate. Thus, a change in the short-term interest rate environment (especially a material change) could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline. As of December 31, 2017, we did not have any outstanding interest rate swap contracts.. Employment-related Risks. The loss of the services of, or our inability to recruit, retain, motivate, our executives and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. We must continue to retain and motivate our executives and other key employees, and to recruit other executives and employees, in order to strengthen our management team and workforce. Our ability to retain or recruit executive and other key employees may be hindered or delayed by, among other things, the reputational challenges the Company currently faces and may in the future continue to face.  A failure by us to retain, motivate and recruit executives and other key employees or the unanticipated loss of the services of any of these executives or key employees for any reason, whether temporary or permanent, could create disruptions in our business, could cause concerns and instability for management and employees, current and potential customers, credit rating agencies and other third parties with whom we do business and our shareholders and debt holders and could cause concern regarding our ability to execute our business strategy or to manage operations in the manner previously conducted and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline. Furthermore, as a result of any failure to retain, or loss of, any executives or key employees, we may experience increased costs in order to identify and recruit a suitable replacement in a timely manner (and, even if we are able to hire a qualified successor, the search process and transition period may be difficult to manage and result in additional periods of uncertainty), which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline. In addition, once identified and recruited, the transition of new executives and key employees may be difficult to manage and we cannot guarantee that new executives and employees will efficiently transition into their roles or ultimately be successful in their roles. Finally, as a result of changes in our executives and key employees, there may be changes in the way we conduct our business, as well as changes to our business strategy. We cannot predict what these changes may involve or the timing of any such changes and how they will impact our product sales, revenue, business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operation, but any such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. Tax-related Risks. Our effective tax rates may increase.. We have operations in various countries that have differing tax laws and rates. Our tax reporting is supported by current domestic tax laws in the countries in which we operate and the application of tax treaties between the various countries in which we operate. Our income tax reporting is subject to audit by domestic and foreign authorities. Our effective tax rate may change from year to year based on changes in the mix of activities and income earned among the different jurisdictions in which we operate; changes in tax laws in these jurisdictions; changes in the tax treaties between various countries in which we operate; changes in our eligibility for benefits under those tax treaties; and changes in the estimated values of deferred tax assets and liabilities. Tax laws, regulations, and administrative practices in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change, with or without notice, due to economic, political, and other conditions, and significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our provision and accruals for these taxes. Such changes could result in a substantial increase in the effective tax rate on all or a portion of our income.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") significantly revised U.S. federal corporate income tax law by, among other things, reducing the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate to 21%, limiting the tax deduction for interest expense to 30% of adjusted earnings, allowing immediate expensing for certain new investments, implementing a modified territorial tax system that includes a one-time transition tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries, an additional U.S. tax on certain non-U.S. subsidiaries' earnings which are considered to be Global Intangible Low Taxed Income (referred to as \"GILTI\") and imposing an alternative \"base erosion and anti-abuse tax\" (\"BEAT\") on domestic corporations that make deductible payments to foreign related persons in excess of specified amounts, and, effective for net operating losses arising in taxable years. 17. beginning after December 31, 2017, eliminating net operating loss carrybacks, permitting indefinite net operating loss carryforwards, and limiting the use of net operating loss carryforwards to 80% of current year taxable income.. There are a number of uncertainties and ambiguities as to the interpretation and application of many of the provisions in the Tax Act, including the provisions relating to the modified territorial tax system, the one-time transition tax and the BEAT. In the absence of guidance on these issues, we will use what we believe are reasonable interpretations and assumptions in interpreting and applying the Tax Act for purposes of determining our cash tax liabilities and results of operations, which may change as we receive additional clarification and implementation guidance and as the interpretation of the Tax Act evolves over time.  It is possible that the Internal Revenue Service could issue subsequent guidance or take positions on audit that differ from the interpretations and assumptions that we previously made, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash tax liabilities, results of operations and financial condition.. Our provision for income taxes is based on certain estimates and assumptions made by management. Our consolidated income tax rate is affected by the amount of pre-tax income earned in our various operating jurisdictions, the availability of benefits under tax treaties, and the rates of taxes payable in respect of that income. We enter into many transactions and arrangements in the ordinary course of business in respect of which the tax treatment is not entirely certain. We therefore make estimates and judgments based on our knowledge and understanding of applicable tax laws and tax treaties, and the application of those tax laws and tax treaties to our business, in determining our consolidated tax provision. For example, certain countries could seek to tax a greater share of income than we will allocate to our business in such countries. The final outcome of any audits by taxation authorities may differ from the estimates and assumptions that we may use in determining our consolidated tax provisions and accruals. This could result in a material adverse effect on our consolidated income tax provision, financial condition and the net income for the period in which such determinations are made.. Our deferred tax liabilities, deferred tax assets and any related valuation allowances are affected by events and transactions arising in the ordinary course of business, acquisitions of assets and businesses, and non-recurring items. The assessment of the appropriate amount of a valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets is dependent upon several factors, including estimates of the realization of deferred income tax assets, which realization will be primarily based on future taxable income, including the reversal of existing taxable temporary differences. Significant judgment is applied to determine the appropriate amount of valuation allowance to record. Changes in the amount of any valuation allowance required could materially increase or decrease our provision for income taxes in a given period.. See Note 18, \"INCOME TAXES\" to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements.. Risks Relating to Intellectual Property and Exclusivity. Products representing a significant amount of our revenue are not protected by patent or marketing or data exclusivity rights or are nearing the end of their exclusivity period. In addition, we have faced generic competition in the past and expect to face additional generic competition in the future. Competitors (including generic and biosimilar competitors) of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. A significant number of the products we sell either: (i) have no meaningful exclusivity protection via patent or marketing or data exclusivity rights or (ii) are protected by patents or regulatory exclusivity periods that will be expiring in the near future. These products represent a significant amount of our revenues (See Item 1 \"Business - Competition - Generic Competition\" in this Form 10-K for a list of some of these products). Without exclusivity protection, competitors (including generics and biosimilars) face fewer barriers in introducing competing products. Upon the expiration or loss of patent exclusivity or regulatory exclusivity for our products or otherwise upon the introduction of generic, biosimilar or other competitors (which may be sold at significantly lower prices than our products), we could lose a significant portion of sales and market share of that product in a very short period and, as a result, our revenues could be lower. In addition, the introduction of generic and biosimilar competitors may have a significant downward pressure on the pricing of our branded products which compete with such generics and biosimilars. Where we have the rights, we may elect to launch an authorized generic of such product (either ourselves or through a third party) prior to, upon or following generic entry, which may mitigate the anticipated decrease in product sales; however, even with the launch of an authorized generic, the decline in product sales of such product would still be expected to be significant, and the effect on our future revenues could be material. The introduction of competing products (including generic products and biosimilars) could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. We may fail to obtain, maintain, license, enforce or defend the intellectual property rights required to conduct our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. 18. We strive to acquire, maintain and defend patent, trademark and other intellectual property protections over our products and the processes used to manufacture these products. However, we may not be successful in obtaining such protections, or the patent, trademark and intellectual property rights we do obtain may not be sufficient in breadth and scope to fully protect our products or prevent competing products, or such patent and intellectual property rights may be susceptible to third party challenges, which could result in the loss of such intellectual property rights or the narrowing of scope of protection afforded by such rights. Our intellectual property rights may also be circumvented by third parties. The failure to obtain, maintain, enforce or defend such intellectual property rights, for any reason, could allow third parties to manufacture and sell products that compete with our products or may impact our ability to develop, manufacture and market our own products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. For certain of our products and manufacturing processes, we rely on trade secrets and other proprietary information, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements with our employees, consultants, advisors and partners. We also attempt to enter into agreements whereby such employees, consultants, advisors and partners assign to us the rights in any intellectual property they develop. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure or misappropriation of such information and disputes may still arise with respect to the ownership of intellectual property. In addition, third parties may independently develop the same or similar proprietary information. The disclosure of such proprietary information or the loss of such intellectual property rights may impact our ability to develop, manufacture and market our own products or may assist competitors in the development, manufacture and sale of competing products, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. For a number of our commercialized products and pipeline products, including Xifaxan®, Jublia® and Relistor®, we rely on licenses to patents and other technologies, know-how and proprietary rights held by third parties. Any loss, expiration, termination or suspension of our rights to such licensed intellectual property would result in our inability to continue to develop, manufacture and market our products or product candidates and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline. In the future, we may also need to obtain such licenses from third parties to develop, manufacture, market or continue to manufacture or market our products. If we are unable to timely obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, our ability to develop, manufacture and market our products may be inhibited or prevented, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. Competitive Risks. We operate in extremely competitive industries. If competitors develop or acquire more effective or less costly pharmaceutical products or medical devices for our target indications, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. The pharmaceutical and medical device industries are extremely competitive. Our success and future growth depend, in part, on our ability to develop, license or acquire products that are more effective than those of our competitors or that incorporate the latest technologies and our ability to effectively manufacture and market those products. Many of our competitors, particularly larger pharmaceutical and medical device companies, have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we do. Many of our competitors spend significantly more on research and development related activities than we do. Others may succeed in developing or acquiring products and technologies that are more effective, more advanced or less costly than those currently marketed or proposed for development by us. In addition, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private organizations conducting research may seek patent protection with respect to potentially competitive products and may also establish exclusive collaborative or licensing relationships with our competitors. These competitors and the introduction of competing products (that may be more effective or less costly than our products) could make our products less competitive or obsolete, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. Risks Relating to Our Shift in Business Strategy. Historically, a significant part of our business strategy has been business development through acquisitions. However, we expect the volume and size of acquisitions to be much lower for the foreseeable future and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. A significant part of our business strategy has historically been the acquisition of companies, businesses and products. However, we expect the volume and size of acquisitions to be much lower for the foreseeable future, as we focus on reducing our outstanding. 19. debt levels. In addition, as a result of the recent amendments to our Credit Agreement, we are prohibited from making acquisitions, subject to certain exceptions, in excess of the aggregate Transaction Cap, until our leverage ratio (the ratio, as of the last day of any fiscal quarter, of Consolidated Total Debt (as defined in the Credit Agreement) as of such day to Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA (as defined in the Credit Agreement) for the four fiscal quarter period ending on such date) is less than 4.50 to 1.00. In addition, during this period, we will also be restricted from incurring debt to finance such acquisitions. See \"-Debt-related Risks-we have incurred significant indebtedness, which restricts the manner in which we conduct business.\" Furthermore, while we anticipate business development through acquisitions may be a component of our long-term strategy, we cannot predict if or when we will shift our focus back to more significant business development activities through acquisitions. This shift in focus away from business development through acquisitions and the restrictions on making acquisitions imposed on us by the Credit Agreement could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations, and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. We have made commitments and public statements with respect to the cessation of or limitation on pricing increases for certain of our products. These pricing decisions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. In May 2016, we formed a new Patient Access and Pricing Committee responsible for the pricing of our drugs. The new committee's first action was a recommendation, which we implemented, for an enhanced rebate program to all hospitals in the U.S. to reduce the price of our Nitropress® and Isuprel® products.  In addition, the Patient Access and Pricing Committee made a commitment that the average annual price increase for our branded prescription pharmaceutical products will be set at no greater than single digits and below the 5-year weighted average of the increases within the branded biopharmaceutical industry. All future pricing actions will be subject to review by the Patient Access and Pricing Committee and we expect that the Patient Access and Pricing Committee will implement or recommend additional price changes and/or new programs to enhance patient access to our drugs. For example, following the evaluation and approval of the Patient Access and Pricing Committee, the Company made the decision to list its recently launched SILIQ\231 (brodalumab) product, at $3,500 per month, which made SILIQ\231 the lowest injectable biologic psoriasis treatment based on total annual costs when launched.. At this time, we cannot predict what specific pricing changes the committee will make nor can we predict what other changes in our business practices we may implement with respect to pricing (such as imposing limits or prohibitions on the amount of pricing increases we may take on certain of our products or taking retroactive or future price reductions). We also cannot predict the impact such pricing decisions or changes will or would have on our business. However, any such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. For example, any pricing changes and programs could affect the average realized prices for our products and may have a significant impact on our revenue trends. In addition, limiting or eliminating price increases on certain of our products will result in fewer or lower price appreciation credits from certain of our wholesalers. Price appreciation credits are generated when we increase a product's wholesaler acquisition cost (\"WAC\") under our contracts with certain wholesalers. Under such contracts, we are entitled to credits from such wholesalers for the impact of that WAC increase on inventory currently on hand at the wholesalers. Such credits, which can be significant, are used to offset against the total distribution service fees we pay on all of our products to each wholesaler. As a result, to the extent we decide to cease or limit price increases, we will have fewer or lower price appreciation credits to use to offset against our distribution fees owing to these wholesalers. In addition, under certain of our agreements with our wholesaler customers, we have price protection or price depreciation provisions, pursuant to which we have agreed to adjust the value of any on-hand or in-transit inventory with such customers in the event we reduce the price of any of our products. As a result, to the extent we reduce the WAC price for any of our products, we may owe a payment to such customers (or such customers may earn a credit to be offset against any amounts owing to us) equal to the amount of such inventory multiplied by the difference between the price at which they acquired the product inventory and the new reduced price.. As part of our change in business strategy, we have undertaken a number of divestitures or certain of our assets and business. We may, in the future, seek to divest additional asset and/or businesses, some of which may be material and/or transformative, which could adversely affect our business, prospects and opportunities for growth.. As part of the change in our business strategy, we announced our intent to divest or otherwise dispose of assets, products or businesses that were not considered core to our ongoing operations or the needs of our primary-customer base. Pursuant to this strategy, in 2017, we completed a number of divestitures, including the divestitures of our Obagi Medical Products business, our iNova Pharmaceuticals business, our Dendreon Pharmaceuticals subsidiary, our Sprout Pharmaceuticals subsidiary and the CeraVe®, AcneFree\231 and AMBI® skincare brands.. Each of these divestitures has been time-consuming and has diverted management's attention. As a result of these divestitures (and others we may in the future complete), we may experience lower revenue and lower cash flows from operations. In addition, as was the case with our sale of our Sprout Pharmaceuticals subsidiary, we may recognize a loss on sale in connection with such. 20. divestitures. We may also suffer adverse tax consequences as a result of such divestitures, including capital gains tax or the accelerated use of net operating losses or other attributes. Furthermore, divesting certain of our businesses or assets may require us to incur restructuring charges, and we may not be able to achieve the cost savings that we expect from any such restructuring efforts or divestitures. Any such divestiture could reduce the size or scope of our business, our market share in particular markets, our opportunities with respect to certain markets, products or therapeutic categories or our ability to compete in certain markets and therapeutic categories. Furthermore, until we have achieved the applicable specified leverage ratio, we will be required to use the net proceeds (or substantial portions thereof) from certain asset sales to repay the term loans under the Credit Agreement and, as a result, will not be able to invest such proceeds into our business.. In addition, should we seek to divest other of our assets and business, we may be unable to dispose of such businesses and assets on satisfactory or commercially reasonable terms within our anticipated timeline. In addition, our ability to identify, enter into and/or consummate divestitures may be limited by competition we face from other companies in pursuing similar transactions in the pharmaceutical industry. Any divestiture or other disposition we pursue, whether we are able to complete it or not, may be complex, time consuming and expensive, may divert the management's attention, have a negative impact on our customer relationships, cause us to incur costs associated with maintaining the business of the targeted divestiture during the disposition process and also to incur costs of closing and disposing the affected business or transferring the operations of the business to other facilities. The divestiture process may also further expose us to operational inefficiencies. In addition, if such transactions are not completed for any reason, the market price of our common shares may reflect a market assumption that such transactions will occur, and a failure to complete such transactions could result in a negative perception by the market of us generally and a decline in the market price of our common shares.. As a result of these factors, any divestiture (whether or not completed) could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. Commercialization Risks. Our approved products may not achieve or maintain expected levels of market acceptance.. Even if we are able to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals for our pharmaceutical and medical device products, generic or branded, the success of these products is dependent upon achieving and maintaining market acceptance. Launching and commercializing products is time consuming, expensive and unpredictable. The commercial launch of a product takes significant time, resources, personnel and expertise, which we may not have in sufficient levels to achieve success, and is subject to various market conditions, some of which may be beyond our control. There can be no assurance that we will be able to, either by ourselves or in collaboration with our partners or through our licensees or distributors, successfully launch and commercialize new products or gain market acceptance for such products. New product candidates that appear promising in development may fail to reach the market or may have only limited or no commercial success. While we have been successful in launching some of our products, we may not achieve the same level of success with respect to all of our new products (such as our Siliq\231 product (brodalumab)). Our inability to successfully launch our new products may negatively impact the commercial success of such product, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline. Our inability to successfully launch our new products could also lead to material impairment charges.. Levels of market acceptance for our new products (such as our Siliq\231 product) could be impacted by several factors, some of which are not within our control, including but not limited to the following:. • safety, efficacy, convenience and cost-effectiveness of our products compared to products of our competitors;. • scope of approved uses and marketing approval;. • availability of patent or regulatory exclusivity;. • timing of market approvals and market entry;. • ongoing regulatory obligations following approval, such as the requirement to conduct a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (\"REMS\") programs;. • any restrictions or \"black box\" warnings required on the labeling of such products;. • availability of alternative products from our competitors;. • acceptance of the price of our products;. • effectiveness of our sales forces and promotional efforts;. • the level of reimbursement of our products;. • acceptance of our products on government and private formularies;. • ability to market our products effectively at the retail level or in the appropriate setting of care; and. • the reputation of our products.. 21. Further, the market perception and reputation of our products and their safety and efficacy are important to our business and the continued acceptance of our products. Any negative publicity about our products, such as the discovery of safety issues with our products, adverse events involving our products, or even public rumors about such events, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operation or could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline. In addition, the discovery of significant problems with a product similar to one of our products that implicate (or are perceived to implicate) an entire class of products or the withdrawal or recall of such similar products could have a material adverse effect on sales of our products. Accordingly, new data about our products, or products similar to our products, could cause us reputational harm and could negatively impact demand for our products due to real or perceived side effects or uncertainty regarding safety or efficacy and, in some cases, could result in product withdrawal.. If our products fail to gain, or lose, market acceptance, our revenues would be adversely impacted and we may be required to take material impairment charges, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. For certain of our products, we depend on reimbursement from governmental and other third party payors and a reduction in reimbursement could reduce our product sales and revenue. In addition, failure to be included in formularies developed by managed care organizations and coverage by other organizations may negatively impact the utilization of our products, which could harm our market share and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. Sales of certain of our products are dependent, in part, on the availability and extent of reimbursement from government health administration authorities, private health insurers, pharmacy benefit managers and other organizations of the costs of our products and the continued reimbursement and coverage of our products in such programs. Changes in government regulations or private third party payors' reimbursement policies may reduce reimbursement for our products. In addition, such third party payors may otherwise make the decision to reduce reimbursement of some or all our products or fail to cover some or all our products in such programs or assert that reimbursements were not in accordance with applicable requirements. For example, these decisions may be based on the price of our products or our current or former pricing practices and decisions. Any reduction or elimination of such reimbursement or coverage could result in a negative impact on the utilization of our products and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. Managed care organizations and other third party payors try to negotiate the pricing of medical services and products to control their costs. Managed care organizations and pharmacy benefit managers typically develop formularies to reduce their cost for medications. Formularies can be based on the prices and therapeutic benefits of the available products. Due to their lower costs, generic products are often favored. The breadth of the products covered by formularies varies considerably from one managed care organization to another, and many formularies include alternative and competitive products for treatment of particular medical conditions. Failure to be included in such formularies or to achieve favorable formulary status may negatively impact the utilization and market share of our products. If our products are not included within an adequate number of formularies or adequate reimbursement levels are not provided, or if those policies increasingly favor generic products, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. Our fulfillment arrangements with Walgreens may not be successful.. At the beginning of 2016, we launched a brand fulfillment arrangement with Walgreen Co. (\"Walgreens\"), pursuant to which we have made certain of our dermatology and ophthalmology products available to eligible patients through a patient access and co-pay program available at Walgreens U.S. retail pharmacy locations, as well as participating independent retail pharmacies. We have, in the past, experienced certain operational issues respecting this arrangement and, during 2016 and 2017, we experienced lower than anticipated average realized prices associated with these products through this arrangement. We cannot guarantee that these arrangements will continue to be successful in the future, nor can we guarantee that additional operational issues will not be encountered, nor can we guarantee that we will be able to successfully negotiate with Walgreens any improvements or amendments to this arrangement we identify as necessary or desired.  In addition, we cannot predict how the market, including customers, doctors, patients, pharmacy benefit managers and third party payors, or governmental agencies, will continue to react to these arrangements and programs. If these arrangements or programs fail, if they do not achieve sufficient success and market acceptance, if we face retaliation from third parties as a result of these arrangements and programs (for example, in the form of limitations on or exclusions from the reimbursement of our products) or if any part of these arrangements is found to be non-compliant with applicable law or regulations, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. 22. Risks Relating to the International Scope of our Business. Our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations are subject to risks arising from the international scope of our operations.. We conduct a significant portion of our business outside the U.S. and Canada and may, in the future, expand our operations into new countries, including emerging markets. We sell our pharmaceutical and medical device products in many countries around the world. All of our foreign operations are subject to risks inherent in conducting business abroad, including, among other things:. • difficulties in coordinating and managing foreign operations, including ensuring that foreign operations comply with foreign laws as well as Canadian and U.S. laws applicable to Canadian companies with U.S. and foreign operations, such as export laws and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\"), the Canadian Corruption of Foreign Public Officials Act, and other applicable worldwide anti-bribery laws;. • price and currency exchange controls;. • restrictions on the repatriation of funds;. • scarcity of hard currency, including the U.S. dollar, which may require a transfer or loan of funds to the operations in such countries, which they may not be able to repay on a timely basis;. • political and economic instability;. • compliance with multiple regulatory regimes;. • compliance with economic sanctions laws and other laws that apply to our activities in the countries where we operate;. • less established legal and regulatory regimes in certain jurisdictions, including as relates to enforcement of anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws and the reliability of the judicial systems;. • differing degrees of protection for intellectual property;. • unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements, including quality standards and other certification requirements;. • new export license requirements;. • adverse changes in tariff and trade protection measures;. • differing labor regulations;. • potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws;. • restrictive governmental actions;. • possible nationalization or expropriation;. • credit market uncertainty;. • differing local practices, customs and cultures, some of which may not align or comply with our Company practices and policies or U.S. laws and regulations;. • difficulties with licensees, contract counterparties, or other commercial partners; and. • differing local product preferences and product requirements.. Any of these factors, or any other international factors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. Similarly, adverse economic conditions impacting our customers in these countries or uncertainty about global economic conditions could cause purchases of our products to decline, which would adversely affect our revenues and operating results. Moreover, our projected revenues and operating results are based on assumptions concerning certain levels of customer spending. Any failure to attain our projected revenues and operating results as a result of adverse economic or market conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. Due to the large portion of our business conducted in currency other than U.S. dollars, we have significant foreign currency risk.. We face foreign currency exposure on the translation into U.S. dollars of the financial results of our operations in Europe, Canada, Latin America, Asia, Africa and the Middle East and other regions. Where possible, we manage foreign currency risk by managing same currency revenue in relation to same currency expenses. We face foreign currency exposure in those countries where we have revenue denominated in the local foreign currency and expenses denominated in other currencies. Both favorable and unfavorable foreign currency impacts to our foreign currency-denominated operating expenses are mitigated to a certain extent by the natural, opposite impact on our foreign currency-denominated revenue. In addition, the repurchase of our U.S. dollar denominated debt may result in foreign exchange gains or losses for Canadian income tax purposes. One half of any foreign exchange gains or losses will be included in our Canadian taxable income. Any foreign exchange gain will result in a corresponding reduction in our available Canadian tax attributes.. 23. In addition, in November 2016, as a result of the Egyptian government's decision to float the Egyptian pound and un-peg it to the U.S. Dollar, the Egyptian pound was significantly devalued. Our exposure to the Egyptian pound is primarily with respect to Amoun Pharmaceutical Company S.A.E., which we acquired in October 2015, and which represented approximately 2% of our total 2017 and 2016 revenues. Further strengthening of the U.S. dollar and/or the devaluation of other countries' currencies could have a negative impact on our reported international revenue.. Development and Regulatory Risks. The successful development of our pipeline products is highly uncertain and requires significant expenditures and time. In addition, obtaining necessary government approvals is time-consuming and not assured. The failure to commercialize certain of our pipeline products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. We currently have a number of pipeline products in development. We and our development partners, as applicable, conduct extensive preclinical studies and clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy in humans of our pipeline products in order to obtain regulatory approval for the sale of our pipeline products. Preclinical studies and clinical trials are expensive, complex, can take many years and have uncertain outcomes. None of, or only a small number of, our research and development programs may actually result in the commercialization of a product. We will not be able to commercialize our pipeline products if preclinical studies do not produce successful results or if clinical trials do not demonstrate safety and efficacy in humans. Furthermore, success in preclinical studies or early-stage clinical trials does not ensure that later stage clinical trials will be successful nor does it ensure that regulatory approval for the product candidate will be obtained. In addition, the process for the completion of pre-clinical and clinical trials is lengthy and may be subject to a number of delays for various reasons, which would delay the commercialization of any successful product. If our development projects are not successful or are significantly delayed, we may not recover our substantial investments in the pipeline product and our failure to bring these pipeline products to market on a timely basis, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. In addition, FDA and Health Canada approval must be obtained in the U.S. and Canada, respectively, EMA approval (drugs) and CE Marking (devices) must be obtained in countries in the EU and similar approvals must be obtained from comparable agencies in other countries, prior to marketing or manufacturing new pharmaceutical and medical device products for use by humans. Obtaining such regulatory approvals for new products and devices and manufacturing processes can take a number of years and involves the expenditure of substantial resources. Even if such products appear promising in development stages, regulatory approval may not be achieved and no assurance can be given that we will obtain approval in those countries where we wish to commercialize such products. Nor can any assurance be given that if such approval is secured, the approved labeling will not have significant labeling limitations, including limitations on the indications for which we can market a product, or require onerous risk management programs. Furthermore, from time to time, changes to the applicable legislation or regulations may be introduced that change these review and approval processes for our products, which changes may make it more difficult and costly to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals.. Our marketed drugs will be subject to ongoing regulatory review.. Following initial regulatory approval of any products, we or our partners may develop or acquire, we will be subject to continuing regulatory review by various government authorities in those countries where our products are marketed or intended to be marketed, including the review of adverse drug events and clinical results that are reported after product candidates become commercially available. In addition, we are subject to ongoing audits and investigations of our facilities and products by the FDA, as well as other regulatory agencies in and outside the U.S. For example, as a result of an inspection by the FDA at our manufacturing facility in Tampa, Florida, we received a complete response letter from the FDA, in which the FDA raised concerns pertaining to a Current Good Manufacturing Practice (\"CGMP\") at such facility and identified certain deficiencies, which we were required to remediate.. If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements in those countries where our products are sold, we could lose our marketing approvals or be subject to fines or other sanctions. Also, as a condition to granting marketing approval of a product, the applicable regulatory agencies may require a company to conduct additional clinical trials or remediate CGMP issues, the results of which could result in the subsequent loss of marketing approval, changes in product labeling or new or increased concerns about side effects or efficacy of a product.. In May 2017, the European Commission published the Medical Device Regulation (MDR) 2017/745, which replaced the Medical Device Directive (MDD). Pursuant to the terms of the new regulations, in order to continue to market medical device products in the EU, such products must achieve compliance with these new regulations and be re-registered in the EU within a specified transition period, which, for a portion of products, will end as early as May 26, 2020. These new regulations impact all of our existing and pipeline medical device products being sold in the EU for which we are legal manufacturer and/or distributor,. 24. including contact lens, lens care, eye-health, aesthetic and surgical areas, as well as certain of our products outside the EU, which rely on the EU registration to support registration in those other countries. These products, in the aggregate, account for a meaningful portion of our net revenue in this region. While we are working to ensure compliance with these new regulations for all impacted products, we may not be able to achieve compliance for all products within the applicable transition period. If we fail to achieve compliance, we will not be able to market and sell the non-compliant products in the EU, nor will we be able to rely on the non-compliant registration for such products in regions outside of the EU, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations in the EU and, possibly, on a consolidated basis, and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. In addition, incidents of adverse drug reactions, unintended side effects or misuse relating to our products could result in additional regulatory controls or restrictions, or even lead to the regulatory authority requiring us to withdraw the product from the market. Further, if faced with these incidents of adverse drug reactions, unintended side effects or misuse relating to our products, we may elect to voluntarily implement a recall or market withdrawal of our product. A recall or market withdrawal, whether voluntary or required by a regulatory authority, may involve significant costs to us, potential disruptions in the supply of our products to our customers and reputational harm to our products and business, all of which could harm our ability to market our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. Manufacturing and Supply Risks. If we or our third party manufacturers are unable to manufacture our products or the manufacturing process is interrupted due to failure to comply with regulations or for other reasons, the interruption of the manufacture of our products could adversely affect our business. Other manufacturing and supply difficulties or delays may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. Our manufacturing facilities and those of our contract manufacturers must be inspected and found to be in full compliance with CGMP, quality system management requirements or similar standards before approval for marketing. Compliance with CGMP regulations requires the dedication of substantial resources and requires significant expenditures. In addition, while we attempt to build in certain contractual obligations on our third party manufacturers, we may not be able to ensure that such third parties comply with these obligations. Our failure or that of our contract manufacturers to comply with CGMP regulations, quality system management requirements or similar regulations outside of the U.S. could result in enforcement action by the FDA or its foreign counterparts, including, but not limited to, warning letters, fines, injunctions, civil or criminal penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production or importation, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approval for approved or in-market products, refusal of the government to renew marketing applications or approve pending applications or supplements, refusal of certificates for export to foreign jurisdictions, suspension of ongoing clinical trials, imposition of new manufacturing requirements, closure of facilities and criminal prosecution. These enforcement actions could lead to a delay or suspension in production, which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. In addition, our manufacturing and other processes use complicated and sophisticated equipment, which sometimes requires a significant amount of time to obtain and install. Manufacturing complexity, testing requirements and safety and security processes combine to increase the overall difficulty of manufacturing these products and resolving manufacturing problems that we may encounter. Although we endeavor to properly maintain our equipment (and require our contract manufacturers to properly maintain their equipment), including through on-site quality control and experienced manufacturing supervision, and have key spare parts on hand, our business could suffer if certain manufacturing or other equipment, or all or a portion of our or their facilities, were to become inoperable for a period of time. We could experience substantial production delays or inventory shortages in the event of any such occurrence until we or they repair such equipment or facility or we or they build or locate replacement equipment or a replacement facility, as applicable, and seek to obtain necessary regulatory approvals for such replacement. Any interruption in our manufacture of products could adversely affect the sales of our current products or introduction of new products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. The supply of our products to our customers (or, in some case, supply from our contract manufacturers to us) is subject to and dependent upon the use of transportation services. Disruption of transportation services (including as a result of weather conditions) could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline. In addition, any prolonged disruption in the operations of our existing distribution facilities, whether due to technical, labor or other difficulties, weather conditions, equipment malfunction, contamination, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, destruction of or damage to any facility or other. 25. reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. For some of our finished products and raw materials, we obtain supply from one or a limited number of sources. If we are unable to obtain components or raw materials, or products supplied by third parties, our ability to manufacture and deliver our products to the market would be impeded, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. Some components and raw materials used in our manufactured products, and some finished products sold by us, are currently available only from one or a limited number of domestic or foreign suppliers. For example, with respect to some of our largest or most significant products, the supply of the finished product for each of our Siliq\231, Vyzulta\231, SofLens®, Wellbutrin XL®, Occuvite®, PreserVision®, Renu®, Isuprel®, Xenazine®, Uceris® tablet, Relistor® Oral and PureVision® products are only available from a single source and the supply of active pharmaceutical ingredient for each of our Siliq\231,Isuprel®, Xenazine®, Relistor® Oral and Uceris® tablet products are also only available from a single source.  In the event an existing supplier fails to supply product on a timely basis and/or in the requested amount, supplies product that fails to meet regulatory requirements, becomes unavailable through business interruption or financial insolvency or loses its regulatory status as an approved source or we are unable to renew current supply agreements when such agreements expire and we do not have a second supplier, we may be unable to obtain the required components, raw materials or products on a timely basis or at commercially reasonable prices. We attempt to mitigate these risks by maintaining safety stock of these products, but such safety stock may not be sufficient. In addition, in some cases, only a single source of active pharmaceutical ingredient is identified in filings with regulatory agencies, including the FDA, and cannot be changed without prior regulatory approval, which would involve time and expense to us. A prolonged interruption in the supply of a single-sourced raw material, including the active pharmaceutical ingredient, or single-sourced finished product could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline. In addition, these third party manufacturers may have the ability to increase the supply price payable by us for the manufacture and supply of our products, in some cases without our consent.. As a result, our dependence upon others to manufacture our products may adversely affect our profit margins and our ability to obtain approval for and produce our products on a timely and competitive basis, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. Risks Relating to Specific Legislation and Regulations. We are subject to various laws and regulations, including \"fraud and abuse\" laws, anti-bribery laws, environmental laws and privacy and security regulations, and a failure to comply with such laws and regulations or prevail in any litigation related to noncompliance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. Pharmaceutical and medical device companies have faced lawsuits and investigations pertaining to violations of health care \"fraud and abuse\" laws, such as the federal False Claims Act, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute (\"AKS\") and other state and federal laws and regulations. The AKS prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any healthcare item or service reimbursable under federally financed healthcare programs. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical or medical device manufacturers, on the one hand, and prescribers, purchasers, formulary managers and other health care related professionals, on the other hand. More generally, the federal False Claims Act, among other things, prohibits any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government. Pharmaceutical and medical device companies have been prosecuted or faced civil liability under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, including engaging in off-label promotion that caused claims to be submitted for non-covered off-label uses. If we are in violation of any of these requirements or any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, this could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of significant criminal and civil fines and penalties, exclusion from federal healthcare programs or other sanctions, including consent orders or corporate integrity agreements.. We also face increasingly strict data privacy and security laws in the U.S. and in other countries, the violation of which could result in fines and other sanctions. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General recommends, and increasingly states require pharmaceutical companies to have comprehensive compliance programs. In addition, the Physician Payment Sunshine Act enacted in 2010 imposes reporting and disclosure requirements on device and drug manufacturers for any \"transfer of value\" made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers. Failure to submit this required information may result in significant civil monetary penalties. While we have developed corporate compliance programs based on what we believe to be current best practices, we cannot provide assurance that we or our employees or agents are or will be in compliance. 26. with all applicable federal, state or foreign regulations and laws. If we are in violation of any of these requirements or any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of significant criminal and civil fines and penalties, exclusion from federal healthcare programs or other sanctions, including consent orders or corporate integrity agreements.. The U.S. FCPA and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices or may require us to interact with doctors and hospitals, some of which may be state controlled, in a manner that is different than in the U.S. and Canada. We cannot provide assurance that our internal control policies and procedures will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in criminal or civil penalties or remedial measures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. We are subject to laws and regulations concerning the environment, safety matters, regulation of chemicals and product safety in the countries where we manufacture and sell our products or otherwise operate our business. These requirements include, among other matters, regulation of the handling, manufacture, transportation, storage, use and disposal of materials, including the discharge of pollutants into the environment. In the normal course of our business, hazardous substances may be released into the environment, which could cause environmental or property damage or personal injuries, and which could subject us to remediation obligations regarding contaminated soil and groundwater or potential liability for damage claims. Under certain laws, we may be required to remediate contamination at certain of our properties regardless of whether the contamination was caused by us or by previous occupants of the property or by others and at third-party sites where we send waste. In recent years, the operations of all companies have become subject to increasingly stringent legislation and regulation related to occupational safety and health, product registration and environmental protection. Such legislation and regulations are complex and constantly changing, and future changes in laws or regulations may require us to install additional controls for certain of our emission sources, undertake changes in our manufacturing processes or remediate soil or groundwater contamination at facilities where such cleanup is not currently required.. We are also subject to various privacy and security regulations, including but not limited to HIPAA. HIPAA mandates, among other things, the adoption of uniform standards for the electronic exchange of information in common health care transactions (e.g., health care claims information and plan eligibility, referral certification and authorization, claims status, plan enrollment, coordination of benefits and related information), as well as standards relating to the privacy and security of individually identifiable health information, which require the adoption of administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect such information. In addition, many states have enacted comparable laws addressing the privacy and security of health information, some of which are more stringent than HIPAA. Failure to comply with these laws can result in the imposition of significant civil and criminal penalties. The costs of compliance with these laws and the potential liability associated with the failure to comply with these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. We are also subject to U.S. federal laws regarding reporting and payment obligations with respect to our participation in federal health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. Because our processes for calculating applicable government prices and the judgments involved in making these calculations involve subjective decisions and complex methodologies, these calculations are subject to risk of errors and differing interpretations. In addition, they are subject to review and challenge by the applicable governmental agencies, and it is possible that such reviews could result in changes that could have material adverse legal, regulatory, or economic consequences.. Legislative or regulatory reform of the healthcare system may affect our ability to sell our products profitably and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. In the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could impact our ability to sell our products profitably. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care Reform Act may affect the operational results of companies in the pharmaceutical and medical device industries, including the Company and other healthcare related industries, by imposing on them additional costs. Effective January 1, 2010, the Health Care Reform Act increased the minimum Medicaid drug rebates for pharmaceutical companies, expanded the 340B drug discount program, and made changes to affect the Medicare Part D coverage gap, or \"donut hole.\" The law also revised the definition of \"average manufacturer price\" for reporting purposes, which may affect the amount of our Medicaid drug rebates to states. Beginning in 2011, the law imposed a significant annual fee on companies that manufacture or import. 27. branded prescription drug products. The law also imposed an annual tax on manufacturers of certain medical devices.  The tax was deferred until January 1, 2020.. Although efforts at replacing the Health Care Reform Act have stalled in Congress, there could still be changes to this legislation in the near term.  We cannot predict what those changes will be or when they will take effect, and we could face additional risks arising from such changes or changed interpretations of our obligations under the legislation. Because of this continued uncertainty, including the potential for further legal challenges or repeal of that legislation, we cannot quantify or predict with any certainty the likely impact of the Health Care Reform Act or its repeal on our business model, prospects, financial condition or results of operations, in particular on the pricing, coverage or reimbursement of any of our product candidates that may receive marketing approval. Additionally, policy efforts designed specifically to reduce patient out-of-pocket costs for medicines could result in new mandatory rebates and discounts or other pricing restrictions. Legislative efforts relating to drug pricing have been proposed and considered at the U.S. federal and state level. We also anticipate that Congress, state legislatures, and third-party payors may continue to review and assess alternative healthcare delivery and payment systems and may in the future propose and adopt legislation or policy changes or implementations effecting additional fundamental changes in the healthcare delivery system. We cannot provide assurance as to the ultimate content, timing, or effect of changes, nor is it possible at this time to estimate the impact of any such potential legislation.. The Health Care Reform Act and further changes to health care laws or regulatory framework that reduce our revenues or increase our costs could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. Other Risks. We have significant goodwill and other intangible assets and potential impairment of goodwill and other intangibles may have a significant adverse impact on our profitability.. Goodwill and intangible assets represent a significant portion of our total assets. Finite-lived intangible assets are subject to an impairment analysis whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired. If impairment exists, we would be required to take an impairment charge with respect to the impaired asset. For example, in in 2017 and 2016, we recognized goodwill impairments of $312 million and $1,077 million, respectively, which were the result of goodwill impairment testing triggered when certain assets of a reporting unit were reclassified as held for sale during the three months ended September 30, 2017 and our reporting segment structure was realigned during the three months ended September 30, 2016, respectively.. In January 2017, the FASB issued guidance which simplifies the subsequent measurement of goodwill by eliminating \"Step 2\" from the goodwill impairment test.  Instead, goodwill impairment will be measured as the amount by which a reporting unit's carrying value exceeds its fair value. The FASB also eliminated the requirements for any reporting unit with a zero or negative carrying amount to perform a qualitative assessment. The guidance is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those annual periods, with early adoption permitted.  The Company may elect to adopt this standard effective the first quarter of 2018. Once adopted, this guidance is expected to have a significant impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations, and disclosures with respect to the Salix reporting unit.  While the fair value of a reporting unit is subject to update for events occurring subsequent to the date of impairment testing, at October 1, 2017, the Salix reporting unit had an estimated fair value of $10,660 million and a carrying value of $13,404 million, including goodwill of $5,127 million.. See Note 6, \"FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS\" and Note 9, \"INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND GOODWILL\" to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on these impairment charges.. Events giving rise to impairment are difficult to predict, including the uncertainties associated with the launch of new products, and are an inherent risk in the pharmaceutical and medical device industries. As a result of the significance of goodwill and intangible assets, our financial condition and results of operations in a future period could be negatively impacted should such an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets occur, which could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline. We may be required to take additional impairment charges in the future and such impairment charges may be material.. We have become increasingly dependent on information technology and any breakdown, interruption or breach of our information technology systems could subject us to liability or interrupt the operation of our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. We are increasingly dependent upon sophisticated information technology systems and infrastructure in connection with the conduct of our business. We must constantly update our information technology infrastructure and we cannot provide assurance. 28. that our various current information technology systems throughout the organization will continue to meet our current and future business needs. Furthermore, modification, upgrade or replacement of such systems may be costly.. Due to the size and complexity of these systems, any breakdown, interruption, corruption or unauthorized access to or cyber-attack on these systems could create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Cyber-attacks are increasing in frequency, sophistication and intensity. Cyber-attacks could include the deployment of harmful malware, denial-of-service attacks, worms, social engineering and other means to affect service reliability and threaten data confidentiality, integrity and availability. We have established physical, electronic and organizational measures to safeguard and secure our systems to prevent a data compromise, and rely on commercially available systems, software, tools, and monitoring to provide security for the processing, transmission and storage of digital information.  While we attempt to take appropriate security and cyber-security measures to protect our data and information technology systems and to prevent such breakdowns and unauthorized breaches and cyber-attacks, we cannot guarantee that these measures will be successful and that these breakdowns and breaches in, or attacks on, our systems and data will be prevented.  Such breakdowns, breaches in or attacks on our systems and data may cause business interruption and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline, and we may suffer financial damage or other loss, including fines or criminal penalties because of lost or misappropriated information.. In addition, we provide confidential, proprietary and personal information to third parties when necessary to pursue our business objectives. While we obtain assurances that these third parties will protect this information and, where appropriate, monitor the protections employed by these third parties, there is a risk that the confidentiality of data held by third parties may be compromised.  If personal information of our customers or employees is misappropriated, our reputation with our customers and employees may be injured, resulting in loss of business and/or morale, and we may incur costs to remediate possible injury to our customers and employees or be required to pay fines or take other action with respect to judicial or regulatory actions arising out of such incidents.. Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate.. Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate from quarter to quarter for a number of reasons. In addition, our stock price is volatile. The following events or occurrences, among others, could cause fluctuations in our financial performance and/or stock price from period to period:. • development and launch of new competitive products;. • the timing and receipt of FDA approvals or lack of approvals;. • costs related to business development transactions;. • changes in the amount we spend to promote our products;. • delays between our expenditures to acquire new products, technologies or businesses and the generation of revenues from those acquired products, technologies or businesses;. • changes in treatment practices of physicians that currently prescribe certain of our products;. • increases in the cost of raw materials used to manufacture our products;. • FDA regulatory actions relating to our manufacturers;. • manufacturing and supply interruptions;. • our responses to price competition;. • expenditures as a result of legal actions (and settlements thereof), including the defense of our patents and other intellectual property;. • market acceptance of our products;. • the timing of wholesaler and distributor purchases and success of our wholesaler and distributor arrangements;. • general economic and industry conditions, including potential fluctuations in interest rates;. • changes in seasonality of demand for certain of our products;. • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations;. • changes to, or the confidence in, our business strategy;. • changes to, or the confidence in, our management; and. • expectations for future growth.. As a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of results from operations, or any other similar period-to-period comparisons, should not be construed as reliable indicators of our future performance. In any quarterly period, our results may be below the expectations of market analysts and investors, which could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. The restatement of our previously issued financial statements was time-consuming and expensive and could expose us to additional risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. 29. We restated our previously issued audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2014 and the unaudited financial information for the quarters ended December 31, 2014 and March 31, 2015. This restatement and the review of the misstatements that necessitated the restatement was time consuming and expensive and could expose us to potential claims and additional risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline. In particular, we could be subject to further shareholder litigation and additional governmental investigations and proceedings in connection with the restatements or related other matters. If we do not prevail in any such proceedings, we could be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs. In addition, although the remediation of the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that contributed to the material misstatements in the consolidated financial statements previously described has been completed, if our remedial measures were insufficient to properly and fully address the material weaknesses, or if additional material weaknesses in our internal controls are discovered or occur in the future, it may materially adversely affect our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations in a timely and accurate manner and there will continue to be an increased risk of future misstatements.. To the extent we resume business development activities through acquisitions, we may be unable to identify, acquire, close or integrate acquisition targets successfully.. Part of our historic business strategy has included the acquisition of businesses, products, technologies or other assets. Although we expect the volume and size of acquisitions to be much lower for the foreseeable future as compared to prior periods, we anticipate that business development through acquisitions may continue to be a component of our long-term strategy.  Should we elect to engage in any acquisitions in the future, acquisitions or similar arrangements may be complex, time consuming and expensive. We may not consummate some negotiations for acquisitions or other arrangements, which could result in significant diversion of management and other employee time, as well as substantial out-of-pocket costs. If such transactions are not completed for any reason, we will be subject to several risks, including the following: (i) the market price of our common shares may reflect a market assumption that such transactions will occur, and a failure to complete such transactions could result in a negative perception by the market of us generally and a decline in the market price of our common shares and (ii) many costs relating to the such transactions may be payable by us whether or not such transactions are completed. If an acquisition is consummated, the integration of the acquired business, product or other assets into our Company may also be complex and time-consuming and, if such businesses, products and assets are not successfully integrated, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits, cost-savings or growth opportunities. Furthermore, we have incurred, and may incur in the future, restructuring and integration costs and a number of non-recurring transaction costs associated with these acquisitions, combining the operations of the Company and the acquired company and achieving desired synergies. These fees and costs may be substantial.  These acquisitions and other arrangements, even if successfully integrated, may fail to further our business strategy as anticipated. We may also fail to achieve the anticipated benefits and successes of such acquisitions.. We have entered into distribution agreements with other companies to distribute certain of our products at supply prices based on net sales. Declines in the pricing and/or volume, over which we have no or limited control, of such products, and therefore the amounts paid to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. Certain of our products are the subject of third party distribution or sublicense agreements, pursuant to which we may manufacture and sell products to other companies, which distribute such products in return for a royalty or a supply price, in both cases which are often based on net sales. Our ability to control pricing and volume of these products may be limited and, in some cases, these companies make all distribution and pricing decisions independently of us. If the pricing or volume of such products declines, our revenues would be adversely impacted which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. The illegal distribution and sale of counterfeit versions of our products may reduce demand for our products or have a negative impact on the reputation of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. Third parties may illegally distribute and sell counterfeit versions of our products, which do not meet or adhere to the rigorous quality, safety, manufacturing, storage and handling standards and regulations that apply to our products. The prevalence of counterfeit products is a growing industry-wide issue due to the widespread use of the Internet, which has greatly facilitated the ease by which counterfeit products can be advertised, purchased and delivered.  The discovery of safety or efficacy issues, adverse events or even death or personal injury associated with or caused by counterfeit products may be attributed to our products and may cause reputational harm to our products or the Company. We may not be able to detect or, if detected, prevent or prohibit the sale of such counterfeit products. As a result, the illegal sale or distribution of counterfeit products may negatively impact the demand for and sales of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. 30. Our revenues and profits could be reduced by imports from countries where our products are available at lower prices.. Prices for our products are based on local market economics and competition and differ from country to country. Our sales in countries with relatively higher prices may be reduced if products can be imported into those or other countries from lower price markets. If this happens with our products, our revenues and profits may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. Our policies regarding returns, allowances and chargebacks, and marketing programs adopted by wholesalers, may reduce our revenues in future fiscal periods.. We provide certain rebates, allowances, chargebacks and other credits to our customers with respect to certain of our products. For example, we make payments or give credits to certain wholesalers for the difference between the invoice price paid to us by our wholesaler customer for a particular product and the negotiated price that such wholesaler sells such products to its hospitals, group purchasing organizations, pharmacies or other retail customers. We also give certain of our customers credits on our products that such customers hold in inventory after we have decreased the WAC prices of such products, such credit being for the difference between the old and new price. In addition, we also implement and maintain returns policies, pursuant to which our customers may return product to us in certain circumstances in return for a credit. Although we establish reserves based on our prior experience, wholesaler data, then-current on-hand inventory, our best estimates of the impact that these policies may have in subsequent periods and certain other considerations, we cannot ensure that our reserves are adequate or that actual product returns, rebates, allowances and chargebacks will not exceed our estimates, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. We may experience declines in sales volumes or prices of certain of our products as the result of the concentration of sales to wholesalers and the continuing trend towards consolidation of such wholesalers and other customer groups and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. For certain of our products, a significant portion of our sales are to a relatively small number of customers. If our relationship with one or more of such customers is disrupted or changes adversely or if one or more of such customers experience financial difficulty or other material adverse changes in their businesses, it could materially and adversely affect our sales and financial results, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline.. In addition, wholesalers and retail drug chains have undergone, and are continuing to undergo, significant consolidation. This consolidation may result in these groups gaining additional purchasing leverage and consequently increasing the product pricing pressures facing our business. The result of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common shares and/or debt securities to decline."
