[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. <U+FEFF>. Our loan portfolio consists of a high percentage of loans secured by commercial real estate and multi-family real estate.  These loans are riskier than loans secured by one- to four-family properties.. <U+FEFF>. At December 31, 2017, $1.26 billion, or 75.82%, of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial and multi-family real estate loans. We intend to continue to emphasize the origination of these types of loans. These loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of nonpayment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation and income stream of the collateral that is pledged. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan.. <U+FEFF>. Commercial real estate and multi-family loans generally carry larger balances and can involve a greater degree of financial and credit risk than other loans. As a result, banking regulators continue to give greater scrutiny to lenders with a high concentration of commercial real estate loans in their portfolios, such as us, and such lenders are expected to implement stricter underwriting standards, internal controls, risk management policies, and portfolio stress testing, as well as higher capital levels and loss allowances. The increased financial and credit risk associated with these types of loans are a result of several factors, including the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans and borrowers, the size of loan balances, the effects of general economic conditions on income-producing properties, and the increased difficulty of evaluating and monitoring these types of loans. During the last recession, financial institutions with high commercial real estate loan concentrations were more susceptible to failure. If we cannot effectively manage the risk associated with our high concentration of commercial real estate loans, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. <U+FEFF>. We may not be able to successfully maintain and manage our growth.. <U+FEFF>. The Company has progressed on an organic branching initiative which is intended to mitigate the location risk of our strong Hudson County concentration, to develop our branch infrastructure in a manner more consistent with the expansion of lending markets and to fill in and grow our branch footprint in a more uniform and coherent fashion, which previously had grown predominately through merger and acquisition activity. To this end, the Company opened seven branches in 2016 and will be opening one more branch within the next year.. <U+FEFF>. We cannot be certain as to our ability to manage increased levels of assets and liabilities. We may be required to make additional investments in equipment and personnel to manage higher asset levels and loans balances, which may adversely impact our efficiency ratio, earnings and shareholder returns.. <U+FEFF>. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease.. <U+FEFF>. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of their loans, and the collateral securing the payment of their loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. We may experience significant credit losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not cover losses in our loan portfolio at the date of the financial statements. Material additions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income. At December 31, 2017, our allowance for loan losses totaled $17.4 million, representing 1.05% of total loans or 133.28% of non-performing loans.. <U+FEFF>. While we have only been operating for 17 years, we have experienced significant growth in our loan portfolio, particularly our loans secured by commercial real estate. Although we believe we have underwriting standards to manage normal lending risks, it is difficult to assess the future performance of our loan portfolio due to the relatively recent origination of many of these loans. We can give you no assurance that our non-performing loans will not increase or that our non-performing or delinquent loans will not adversely affect our future performance.. <U+FEFF>. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. <U+FEFF>. The asset quality of our loan portfolio may deteriorate if the economy falters, resulting in a portion of our loans failing to perform in accordance with their terms. Under such circumstances our profitability will be adversely affected.. <U+FEFF>. At December 31, 2017, we had $21.7 million in classified loans of which $49,000 were classified as losses,  and $21.7 million were classified as substandard. In addition, at that date we had $13.0 million in non-accruing loans, or 0.78% of total loans. We have adhered to stringent underwriting standards in the origination of loans, but there can be no assurance that loans that we originated will not experience asset quality deterioration as a result of a downturn in the local economy. Should our local economy weaken, our asset quality may deteriorate resulting in losses to the Company.. <U+FEFF>. We depend primarily on net interest income for our earnings rather than fee income.. <U+FEFF>. Net interest income is the most significant component of our operating income. We have significantly less reliance on traditional sources of fee income utilized by some community banks, such as fees from sales of insurance, securities or investment advisory products or services. For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, our net interest income was $61.9 million and  $55.1 million, respectively. The amount of our net interest income is influenced by the overall interest rate environment, competition, and the amount of interest-earning assets relative to the amount of interest-bearing liabilities. In the event that one or more of these factors were to result in a decrease in our net interest income, we do not have significant sources of fee income to make up for decreases in net interest income.. <U+FEFF>. Changes in interest rates could hurt our profits.. <U+FEFF>. Our profitability, like most financial institutions, depends to a large extent upon our net interest income, which is the difference between our interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and our interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Accordingly, our results of operations depend largely on movements in market interest rates and our ability to manage our interest-rate-sensitive assets and liabilities in response to these movements. Factors such as inflation, recession and instability in financial markets, among other factors beyond our control, may affect interest rates.. 22. Table of Contents. <U+FEFF>. If interest rates rise, and if rates on our deposits reprice upwards faster than the rates on our long-term loans and investments, we would experience compression of our interest rate spread, which would have a negative effect on our profitability. Conversely, decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce their borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk as we may have to redeploy such loan or securities proceeds into lower-yielding assets, which might also negatively impact our income.. <U+FEFF>. Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Further, a prolonged period of exceptionally low market interest rates, such as we are currently experiencing, limits our ability to lower our interest expense, while the average yield on our interest-earning assets may continue to decrease as our loans reprice or are originated at these low market rates. Accordingly, our net interest income may continue to decrease, which may have an adverse effect on our profitability. Also, our interest rate risk modeling techniques and assumptions likely may not fully predict or capture the impact of actual interest rate changes on our balance sheet or projected operating results.. <U+FEFF>. While we pursue an asset/liability strategy designed to mitigate our risk from changes in interest rates, changes in interest rates can still have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate real estate loans, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings. For further discussion of how changes in interest rates could impact us, see \"Item 7A.  -  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk.\". <U+FEFF>. The building of market share through de novo branching and expansion of our commercial real estate and multi-family lending capacity could cause our expenses to increase faster than revenues.. <U+FEFF>. We intend to continue to build market share through de novo branching and expansion of our commercial real estate and multi-family lending capacity. Since January 1, 2015, we have opened nine de novo branches including two in 2015 and seven in 2016. Pursuant to our de novo branch expansion strategy, during the two years ended December 31, 2016 we hired 26 new full-time equivalent employees, primarily in the areas of business development, loan administration and customer service. There are considerable costs involved in opening branches and expansion of lending capacity that generally require a period of time to generate the necessary revenues to offset their costs, especially in areas in which we do not have an established presence. Accordingly, any such business expansion can be expected to negatively impact our earnings for some period of time until certain economies of scale are reached. Our expenses could be further increased if we encounter delays in the opening of any of our new branches. Finally, our business expansion may not be successful after establishment of the new branches.. <U+FEFF>. The Dodd-Frank Act has resulted in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations.. <U+FEFF>. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, has changed and will continue to change the bank regulatory framework. The legislation has also resulted in new regulations affecting the lending, funding, trading and investment activities of banks and bank holding companies. An independent Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has assumed the consumer protection responsibilities of the various federal banking agencies and has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions such as the Bank, including the authority to prohibit \"unfair, deceptive or abusive\" acts and practices. Banks and savings institutions with $10.0 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined by their applicable bank regulators. The legislation also gave state attorneys general the ability to enforce applicable federal consumer protection laws. The Dodd-Frank Act also required the federal banking agencies to promulgate rules requiring mortgage lenders to retain a portion of the credit risk related to securitized loans. These measures are likely to increase our costs of doing business and increase our costs related to regulatory compliance, and may have a significant adverse effect on our lending activities, financial performance and operating flexibility.. <U+FEFF>. We have become subject to more stringent capital requirements, which may adversely impact our return on equity, or constrain us from paying dividends or repurchasing shares.. <U+FEFF>. In July 2013, the FDIC and the Federal Reserve approved a new rule that substantially amended the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to the Bank and the Company. The final rule implemented the \"Basel III\" regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act.. <U+FEFF>. The final rule includes new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which became effective for the Bank and the Company on January 1, 2015, and refines the definition of what constitutes \"capital\" for purposes of calculating these ratios. The new minimum capital requirements are: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 to risk-based assets capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from current rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%. The final rule also establishes a \"capital conservation buffer\" of 2.5%, and will result in the following minimum ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%; (ii) a Tier 1 to risk-based assets capital ratio of 8.5%; and (iii) a total capital ratio of 10.5%. The new capital conservation buffer requirement was phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and will increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019. In 2018, the ratio will be 1.875% of risk-weighted assets. An institution will be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount. These limitations will establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that can be utilized for such actions.. <U+FEFF>. The application of more stringent capital requirements for the Bank and the Company could, among other things, result in lower returns on equity, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions constraining us from paying dividends or repurchasing shares if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements.. <U+FEFF>. New regulations could restrict our ability to originate and sell mortgage loans.. <U+FEFF>. The CFPB has issued a rule designed to clarify for lenders how they can avoid monetary damages under the Dodd-Frank Act, which would hold lenders accountable for ensuring a borrower's ability to repay a mortgage. Loans that meet this \"qualified mortgage\" definition will be presumed to have complied with the new ability-to-repay standard. Under the CFPB's rule, a \"qualified mortgage\" loan must not contain certain specified features, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\texcessive upfront points and fees (those exceeding 3% of the total loan amount, less \"bona fide discount points\" for prime loans);.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinterest-only payments;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnegative-amortization; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tterms longer than 30 years.. <U+FEFF>. Also, to qualify as a \"qualified mortgage,\" a borrower's total debt-to-income ratio may not exceed 43%. Lenders must also verify and document the income and financial resources relied upon to qualify the borrower for the loan and underwrite the loan based on a fully amortizing payment schedule and maximum interest rate during the first five years, taking into account all applicable taxes, insurance and assessments. The CFPB's rule on qualified mortgages could limit our ability or desire to make certain types of loans or loans to certain borrowers, or could make it more expensive and/or time consuming to make these loans, which could limit our growth or profitability.. <U+FEFF>. 23. Table of Contents. Risks associated with system failures, interruptions, or breaches of security could negatively affect our earnings.. <U+FEFF>. Information technology systems are critical to our business. We use various technology systems to manage our customer relationships, general ledger, securities investments, deposits, and loans. We have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of system failures, interruptions, and security breaches (including privacy breaches and cyber-attacks), but such events may still occur or may not be adequately addressed if they do occur. In addition, any compromise of our systems could deter customers from using our products and services. Although we take protective measures, the security of our computer systems, software, and networks may be vulnerable to breaches, unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses, or other malicious code and cyber attacks that could have an impact on information security.. <U+FEFF>. In addition, we outsource a majority of our data processing to certain third-party providers. If these third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if we have difficulty communicating with them, our ability to adequately process and account for transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be adversely affected. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel.. <U+FEFF>. There have been increasing efforts on the part of third parties, including through cyber attacks, to breach data security at financial institutions or with respect to financial transactions. There have been several recent instances involving financial services and consumer-based companies reporting the unauthorized disclosure of client or customer information or the destruction or theft of corporate data. In addition, because the techniques used to cause such security breaches change frequently, often are not recognized until launched against a target and may originate from less regulated and remote areas around the world, we may be unable to proactively address these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. The ability of our customers to bank remotely, including online and through mobile devices, requires secure transmission of confidential information and increases the risk of data security breaches.. <U+FEFF>. The occurrence of any system failures, interruption, or breach of security could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business thereby subjecting us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose us to litigation and possible financial liability. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. The Bank's reliance on brokered deposits could adversely affect its liquidity and operating results.. <U+FEFF>. Among other sources of funds, we rely on brokered deposits to provide funds with which to make loans and provide for other liquidity needs. On December 31, 2017, brokered deposits totaled $60.2 million, or approximately 3.8% of total deposits. The Bank's primary source for brokered money market deposits is the Certificate of Deposit Account Registry Service (\"CDARS\").. <U+FEFF>. Generally brokered deposits may not be as stable as other types of deposits. In the future, those depositors may not replace their brokered deposits with us as they mature, or we may have to pay a higher rate of interest to keep those deposits or to replace them with other deposits or other sources of funds. Not being able to maintain or replace those deposits as they mature would adversely affect our liquidity. Paying higher deposit rates to maintain or replace brokered deposits would adversely affect our net interest margin and operating results.. <U+FEFF>. Strong competition within our market area may limit our growth and profitability.. <U+FEFF>. Competition is intense within the banking and financial services industry in New Jersey and New York. In our market area, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources, higher lending limits and offer services that we do not or cannot provide. This competition makes it more difficult for us to originate new loans and retain and attract new deposits. Price competition for loans may result in originating fewer loans, or earning less on our loans and price competition for deposits may result in a reduction of our deposit base or paying more on our deposits.. <U+FEFF>. Adverse events in New Jersey, where our business is concentrated, could adversely affect our results and future growth.. <U+FEFF>. Our business, the location of our branches and the real estate collateralizing our real estate loans are concentrated in New Jersey. As a result, we are exposed to geographic risks. The occurrence of an economic downturn in New Jersey, or adverse changes in laws or regulations in New Jersey, could impact the credit quality of our assets, the business of our customers and our ability to expand our business.. <U+FEFF>. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing in our market area. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may be negatively affected. In addition, the economies of the communities in which we operate are substantially dependent on the growth of the economy in the State of New Jersey. To the extent that economic conditions in New Jersey are unfavorable or do not continue to grow as projected, the economy in our market area would be adversely affected. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our market area if they do occur.. <U+FEFF>. In addition, the market value of the real estate securing loans as collateral could be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in market and economic conditions. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 99% of our total loans were secured by real estate. Adverse developments affecting commerce or real estate values in the local economies in our primary market areas could increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio. In addition, a significant percentage of our loans are to individuals and businesses in New Jersey. Our business customers may not have customer bases that are as diverse as businesses serving regional or national markets. Consequently, any decline in the economy of our market area could have an adverse impact on our revenues and financial condition. In particular, we may experience increased loan delinquencies, which could result in a higher provision for loan losses and increased charge-offs. Any sustained period of increased non-payment, delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in our market area could adversely affect the value of our assets, revenues, results of operations and financial condition.. <U+FEFF>. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal, state and local laws and regulations.. <U+FEFF>. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state banking authorities. Any change in applicable regulations or federal, state or local legislation could have a substantial impact on us and our operations. Additional legislation and regulations that could significantly affect our powers, authority and operations may be enacted or adopted in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, regulators have significant discretion and authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. The exercise of regulatory authority may have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition.. Like other bank holding companies and financial institutions, we must comply with significant anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws. Under these laws, we are required, among other things, to enforce a customer identification program and file currency transaction and suspicious activity reports with the federal government. Government agencies have substantial discretion to impose significant monetary penalties on institutions which fail to comply with these laws or make required reports. Because we operate our business in the highly urbanized greater Newark/New York City metropolitan area, we may be at greater risk of scrutiny by government regulators for compliance with these laws.. <U+FEFF>. 24. Table of Contents. We could be adversely affected by failure in our internal controls.. <U+FEFF>. A failure in our internal controls could have a significant negative impact not only on our earnings, but also on the perception that customers, regulators and investors may have of us. We continue to devote a significant amount of effort, time and resources to continually strengthening our controls and ensuring compliance with complex accounting standards and banking regulations.. <U+FEFF>. Risks Relating to the Merger with IA Bancorp, Inc.. <U+FEFF>. If the merger is not consummated, IAB and BCB will have incurred substantial costs that may adversely affect IAB's and BCB's financial results and operations.. <U+FEFF>. IAB and BCB have incurred and will continue to incur substantial costs in connection with the proposed merger. These costs are primarily associated with the fees of their respective financial advisors, accountants and attorneys. If the merger is not consummated, IAB and BCB will have incurred these costs from which they will have received little or no benefit.. <U+FEFF>. Regulatory approvals, non-objections or waivers may not be received, may take longer than expected or impose conditions that are not presently anticipated.. <U+FEFF>. Before the merger may be completed, IAB and BCB must obtain various regulatory approvals, non-objections or waivers from, among others, the FDIC, the Federal Reserve and the Department. These regulators may impose conditions on consummation of the merger or require changes to the terms of the merger. Although we do not currently expect that any such conditions or changes would be imposed, there can be no assurance that they will not be, and such conditions or changes could have the effect of delaying the effective time of the merger or imposing additional costs on or limiting the revenues of BCB following the merger. Furthermore, such conditions or changes may constitute a burdensome condition that may allow BCB to terminate the merger agreement and BCB may exercise its right to terminate the merger agreement. There can be no assurance as to whether the regulatory approvals will be received, the timing of those approvals, or whether any conditions will be imposed.. <U+FEFF>. IAB and BCB will be subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the merger is pending.. <U+FEFF>. Uncertainty about the effect of the merger on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on IAB and/or BCB. These uncertainties may impair IAB's and/or BCB's ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the merger is completed and for a period of time thereafter, and could cause customers and others who deal with IAB or BCB to seek to change existing business relationships with IAB or BCB. IAB employee retention and recruitment may be particularly challenging prior to the effective time of the merger, as employees and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company.. <U+FEFF>. The pursuit of the merger and the preparation for the integration may place a significant burden on management and internal resources. Any significant diversion of management attention away from ongoing business and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could affect IAB's and/or BCB's financial results.. <U+FEFF>. In addition, the merger agreement requires that, subject to certain exceptions, each of IAB and BCB operate in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice prior to the effective time of the merger or termination of the merger agreement.. <U+FEFF>. Risks Relating to BCB's Business Following the Merger. <U+FEFF>. Combining the two companies may be more difficult, costly or time-consuming than expected.. <U+FEFF>. BCB and IAB have historically operated and, until the effective time of the merger, will continue to operate, independently. The success of the merger will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully combine the businesses of BCB and IAB. To realize these anticipated benefits, after the effective time of the merger, BCB expects to integrate IAB's business into its own. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each company's ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect the combined company's ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. The loss of key employees could adversely affect BCB's ability to successfully conduct its business in the markets in which IAB now operates, which could have an adverse effect on BCB's financial results and the value of its common stock. If BCB experiences difficulties with the integration process, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. As with any merger of financial institutions, there also may be business disruptions that cause IAB or BCB to lose current customers or cause current customers to remove their accounts from IAB or BCB and move their business to competing financial institutions. Integration efforts between the two companies will also divert management attention and resources. These integration matters could have an adverse effect on each of IAB and BCB during this transition period and for an undetermined period after consummation of the merger.. <U+FEFF>. BCB may fail to realize the cost savings estimated for the merger.. <U+FEFF>. BCB estimates that it will achieve cost savings from the merger when the two companies have been fully integrated. While BCB continues to be comfortable with these expectations as of the date of this annual report on Form 10-K, it is possible that the estimates of the potential cost savings could turn out to be incorrect. The actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, and the anticipated benefits of the integration plan may not be realized. Actual growth and cost savings, if achieved, may be lower than what BCB expects and may take longer to achieve than anticipated. If BCB is not able to adequately address integration challenges, BCB may be unable to successfully integrate BCB's and IAB's operations or to realize the anticipated benefits of the integration of the two companies.. <U+FEFF>. BCB and IAB will incur significant transaction and merger-related costs in connection with the merger.. <U+FEFF>. BCB and IAB have incurred and expect to incur a number of non-recurring costs associated with the merger.. <U+FEFF>. These costs and expenses include fees paid to financial, legal and accounting advisors, severance, retention bonus and other potential employment-related costs, filing fees, printing expenses and other related charges. Some of these costs are payable by BCB and IAB regardless of whether the merger is completed. There are also a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems that must be integrated in connection with the merger and the integration of the two companies' businesses. While both BCB and IAB have assumed that a certain level of expenses would be incurred in connection with the merger, there are many factors beyond their control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the integration and implementation expenses.. <U+FEFF>. There may also be additional unanticipated significant costs in connection with the merger that BCB may not recoup. These costs and expenses could reduce the realization of efficiencies, strategic benefits and additional income BCB expects to achieve from the merger. Although BCB expects that these benefits will offset the transaction expenses and implementation costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term or at all.. <U+FEFF>. <U+FEFF>. <U+FEFF>. 25. Table of Contents"
