[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and other information included in this Form 10-K in evaluating us and our business. If any of the events described below occur, our business and financial results could be adversely affected in a material way. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, perhaps significantly.. Risks Related to Our Business. We may not be able to effectively integrate newly acquired businesses into our operations or achieve expected cost savings or profitability from our acquisitions.. Our growth strategy includes acquiring other distributors of roofing materials and complementary products. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including:. •  unforeseen difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, services, accounting and employees, including difficulties in operating and integrating Allied's interior products business line, a business line which we have not previously operated;. •  diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations;. •  unforeseen difficulties related to entering geographic regions where we do not have prior experience;. •  potential loss of key employees;. •  unforeseen liabilities associated with businesses acquired; and. •  inability to generate sufficient revenue or realize sufficient cost savings to offset acquisition or investment costs.. As a result, if we fail to evaluate and execute acquisitions properly, we might not achieve the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. These risks would likely be greater in the case of larger acquisitions, including the Allied Acquisition.  See \" - Risks Related to the Allied Acquisition\" below.. 15. We may not be able to successfully complete acquisitions on acceptable terms, which would slow our growth rate.. The acquisition of other distributors of roofing materials and complementary products is an important part of our growth strategy. We continually seek additional acquisition candidates in selected markets and from time to time engage in exploratory discussions with potential candidates. We are unable to predict whether or when we will be able to identify any suitable additional acquisition candidates, or the likelihood that any potential acquisition will be completed. If we cannot complete acquisitions that we identify on acceptable terms, it is unlikely that we will sustain the historical growth rates of our business.. An inability to obtain the products that we distribute could result in lost revenues and reduced margins and damage relationships with customers.. We distribute roofing and other exterior building materials that are manufactured by a number of major suppliers. Disruptions in our sources of supply may occur as a result of unanticipated demand or production or delivery difficulties. When shortages occur, roofing material suppliers often allocate products among distributors. Although we believe that our relationships with our suppliers are strong and that we would have access to similar products from competing suppliers should products be unavailable from current sources, any supply shortage, particularly of the most commonly sold items, could result in a loss of revenues and reduced margins and damage relationships with customers.. Loss of key talent or our inability to attract and retain new qualified talent could hurt our ability to operate and grow successfully.. Our success will continue to depend to a significant extent on our executive officers and key management personnel, including our divisional executive vice presidents and regional vice presidents. We do not have key man life insurance covering any of our executive officers. We may not be able to retain our executive officers and key personnel or attract additional qualified management. The loss of any of our executive officers or other key management employees, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified employees, could hurt our ability to operate and make it difficult to execute our acquisition and internal growth strategies. Further, the Allied Acquisition may negatively impact our ability to retain key personnel.. A change in vendor pricing and demand could adversely affect our income and gross margins.. Many of the products that we distribute are subject to price changes based upon manufacturers' raw material costs and other manufacturer pricing decisions. For example, as a distributor of residential roofing supplies, our business is sensitive to asphalt prices, which are highly volatile and often linked to oil prices, as oil is a significant input in asphalt production. Shingle prices have been volatile in recent years, partly due to volatility in asphalt prices. Historically, we have generally been able to pass increases in the prices of shingles on to our customers. Although we often are able to pass on manufacturers' price increases, our ability to pass on increases in costs depends on market conditions. The inability to pass along cost increases could result in lower operating margins. In addition, higher prices could impact demand for these products, resulting in lower sales volumes.. A change in vendor rebates could adversely affect our income and gross margins.. The terms on which we purchase products from many of our vendors entitle us to receive a rebate based on the volume of our purchases. These rebates effectively reduce our costs for products. If market conditions change, vendors may adversely change the terms of some or all of these programs. Although these changes would not affect the net recorded costs of product already purchased, it may lower our gross margins on products we sell and therefore the income we realize on such sales in future periods.. Cyclicality in our business and general economic conditions could result in lower revenues and reduced profitability.. A portion of the products we sell are for residential and non-residential construction. The strength of these markets depends on new housing starts and business investment, which are a function of many factors beyond our control, including credit and capital availability, interest rates, foreclosure rates, housing inventory levels and occupancy, employment levels, consumer confidence and the health of the United States economy and mortgage. 16. markets. Economic downturns in the regions and markets we serve could result in lower revenues and, since many of our expenses are fixed, lower profitability. The challenging economic conditions in recent years, including tighter credit markets, have adversely affected demand for new residential and non-residential projects and, to a lesser extent, re-roofing projects, and may continue to negatively affect expenditures for roofing in the near term. Unfavorable changes in demographics, credit markets, consumer confidence, housing affordability, or housing inventory levels and occupancy, or a weakening of the United States economy or of any regional or local economy in which we operate could adversely affect consumer spending, result in decreased demand for our products, and adversely affect our business. In addition, instability in the economy and financial markets, including as a result of terrorism or civil or political unrest, may result in a decrease in housing starts, which would adversely affect our business.. Seasonality in the construction and re-roofing industry generally results in second quarter losses.. Our second quarter is typically affected adversely by winter construction cycles and cold weather patterns as the levels of activity in the new construction and re-roofing markets decrease. Because many of our expenses remain relatively fixed throughout the year, we generally record a loss during our second quarter. We expect that these seasonal variations will continue in the near future.. If we encounter difficulties with our management information systems, we could experience problems with inventory, collections, customer service, cost control and business plan execution.. We believe our management information systems are a competitive advantage in maintaining our leadership position in the roofing distribution industry. However, if we experience problems with our management information systems, we could experience, among other things, product shortages and/or an increase in accounts receivable aging. Any failure by us to properly maintain and protect our management information systems could adversely impact our ability to attract and serve customers and could cause us to incur higher operating costs and experience delays in the execution of our business plan.. Since we rely heavily on information technology both in serving our customers and in our enterprise infrastructure in order to achieve our objectives, we may be vulnerable to damage or intrusion from a variety of cyber-attacks including computer viruses, worms or other malicious software programs that may access our systems. Despite the precautions we take to mitigate the risks of such events, an attack on our enterprise information technology system could result in theft or disclosure of our proprietary or confidential information or a breach of confidential customer or employee information. Such events could have an adverse impact on revenue, harm our reputation, and cause us to incur significant legal liability and costs to address and remediate such events and related security concerns.. An impairment of goodwill and/or other intangible assets could reduce net income.. Acquisitions frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets. At September 30, 2017, goodwill represented approximately 36% of our total assets. We expect to record significant additional goodwill and other intangible assets upon consummation of the Allied Acquisition. Goodwill is not amortized for financial reporting purposes and is subject to impairment testing at least annually using a fair-value based approach. The identification and measurement of goodwill impairment involves the estimation of the fair value of our reporting units. Our accounting for impairment contains uncertainty because management must use judgment in determining appropriate assumptions to be used in the measurement of fair value. We determine the fair values of our reporting units by using a qualitative approach.. We evaluate the recoverability of goodwill for impairment in between our annual tests when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of goodwill may not be recoverable. Any impairment of goodwill will reduce net income in the period in which the impairment is recognized.. We might need to raise additional capital, which may not be available, thus limiting our growth prospects.. In the future we may require equity or additional debt financing in order to consummate an acquisition, for additional working capital for expansion, or if we suffer more than seasonally expected losses. In the event such additional financing is unavailable to us on commercially attractive terms or at all, we may be unable to expand or make acquisitions or pursue other growth opportunities.. 17. Major disruptions in the capital and credit markets may impact both the availability of credit and business conditions.. If the financial institutions that have extended credit commitments to us are adversely affected by major disruptions in the capital and credit markets, they may become unable to fund borrowings under those credit commitments. This could have an adverse impact on our financial condition since we need to borrow funds at times for working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures and other corporate purposes.. Major disruptions in the capital and credit markets could also lead to broader economic downturns, which could result in lower demand for our products and increased incidence of customers' inability to pay their accounts. The majority of our net sales volume is facilitated through the extension of trade credit to our customers. Additional customer bankruptcies or similar events caused by such broader downturns may result in a higher level of bad debt expense than we have historically experienced. Also, our suppliers may be impacted, causing potential disruptions or delays of product availability. These events would adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position.. Our level and terms of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, take advantage of new business opportunities, and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our debt instruments.. As of September 30, 2017, we had $300.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 6.375% senior notes due 2023, $441.0 million outstanding under our existing seven-year senior secured term loan \"B\" facility, $3.2 million drawn under our existing senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility (the \"ABL Facility\" and, together with the term loan B facility, our \"Existing Senior Secured Credit Facilities\"), and $35.4 million of total other indebtedness. In connection with the Allied Acquisition, on October 25, 2017 we issued $1.3 billion in aggregate principal amount of our 4.875% senior notes due 2025 (our \"outstanding senior notes\"), and we also expect to borrow up to an aggregate principal amount of $970.0 million under a seven-year senior secured term loan \"B\" facility (the \"New Term Loan\") and enter into an amended and restated senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility with commitments of up to $1.3 billion (the \"New ABL Facility\" and, collectively with the New Term Loan, the \"New Senior Secured Credit Facilities\"). Our substantial debt could have important consequences to us, including:. •  increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions;. •  requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow used in operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our liquidity and our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities;. •  exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates, and corresponding increased interest expense, because future borrowings under our Existing Senior Secured Credit Facilities or New Senior Secured Credit Facilities would be at variable rates of interest;. •  reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, due to the costs and expenses associated with such debt;. •  make it more difficult to satisfy our obligations under the terms of our indebtedness;. •  limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes; and. •  limiting our ability to adjust to changing marketplace conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may have less debt.. In addition, the debt agreements that currently govern our Existing Senior Secured Credit Facilities and the indentures governing our outstanding senior notes impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including limitations on our ability to, among other things, pay dividends and make other distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, capital stock; make certain investments; incur certain liens; enter into transactions with affiliates; merge or consolidate; enter into agreements that restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to make dividends or other payments to. 18. Beacon Roofing Supply, Inc.; and transfer or sell assets. We expect that the debt agreements and other debt instruments that will govern the New Senior Secured Credit Facilities will have similar restrictions. In addition, the terms of our preferred stock contain restrictions on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock, and the holders of such shares would participate in any declared common stock dividends, reducing the cash available to holders of common stock. As a result of these restrictions, we will be limited as to how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to capitalize on available business opportunities.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations, which could cause us to default on our debt obligations and impair our liquidity. In the event of a default under any of our indebtedness, the holders of the defaulted debt could elect to declare all the funds borrowed to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, which in turn could result in cross-defaults under our other indebtedness. The lenders under our Existing Senior Secured Credit Facilities could also elect to terminate their commitments thereunder and cease making further loans, and such lenders could institute foreclosure proceedings against their collateral, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.. Despite our current level of indebtedness, we may be able to incur substantially more debt and enter into other transactions which could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition described above.. We may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Although the debt agreements that currently govern our Existing Senior Secured Credit Facilities, outstanding senior notes and other debt instruments contain, and the debt agreements and other debt instruments that we anticipate will govern the New Senior Secured Credit Facilities will contain, restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness and entering into certain types of other transactions, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions. Additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. These restrictions also do not prevent us from incurring obligations, such as trade payables, that do not constitute indebtedness as defined under our debt instruments. To the extent we incur additional indebtedness or other obligations, the risks described in the immediately preceding risk factor and others described herein may increase.. Risks Related to the Allied Acquisition. The Allied Acquisition is subject to closing conditions. Failure to complete the Allied Acquisition could have material and adverse effects on Beacon.. On August 24, 2017, Beacon entered into the Stock Purchase Agreement in connection with the Allied Acquisition. Although we currently expect the Allied Acquisition to close on January 2, 2018, subject to customary closing conditions, there can be no assurance that the Allied Acquisition will be completed in accordance with the anticipating timing or at all.  In addition, if the Allied Acquisition has not been completed by February 28, 2018, either Allied or the Company may terminate the Stock Purchase Agreement unless the failure of the Allied Acquisition to be completed has resulted from the failure of the party seeking to terminate the Stock Purchase Agreement to perform its obligations thereunder.. If the Allied Acquisition is not completed on a timely basis, or at all, Beacon's ongoing business may be adversely affected. Additionally, in the event the Allied Acquisition is not completed, Beacon will be subject to a number of risks without realizing any of the benefits of having completed the Allied Acquisition, including the following:. •  the Company will be required to pay its costs relating to the Allied Acquisition, such as legal, accounting, financing and financial advisory fees, whether or not the Allied Acquisition is completed, and could be required to pay Allied a termination fee of $85 million in cash if the Stock Purchase Agreement is terminated under specified circumstances;. •  time and resources committed by the Company's management to matters relating to the Allied Acquisition could otherwise have been devoted to pursuing other beneficial opportunities; and. 19. •  the market price of the Company's securities could decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the Allied Acquisition will be completed, or to the extent that the Allied Acquisition is fundamental to the Company's business strategy.. The issuance of preferred shares in the Convertible Preferred Stock Purchase, which will rank senior to our shares of common stock, and the issuance of additional preferred shares as \"in-kind\" dividend payments will reduce the relative voting power of our common stockholders, will dilute the ownership of such stockholders, and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The preferred stock to be issued in the Convertible Preferred Stock Purchase will have rights, preferences and privileges that are not held by, and are preferential to the rights of, our common stockholders. We may be required under certain circumstances to repurchase the preferred stock for cash; such obligations could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition.. On August 24, 2017, in connection with the execution of the Stock Purchase Agreement, Beacon entered into an investment agreement (the \"Investment Agreement\") with CD&R Boulder Holdings, L.P. (the \"CD&R Stockholder\") and Clayton, Dubilier & Rice Fund IX, L.P. (solely for the purpose of limited provisions therein) for the purchase of shares of Series A Cumulative Convertible Participating Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the \"preferred stock\") in order to partially finance the Allied Acquisition.  The preferred stock will be convertible perpetual participating preferred stock of Beacon, with an initial conversion price of $41.26 per share, and accrue dividends at a rate of 6.0% per annum (payable in cash or in-kind, subject to specified limitations).  The preferred stock may be converted to shares of our common stock at any time following issuance thereof at the option of the holder, and any such conversion will dilute the ownership interest of our common stockholders.  Pursuant to the Investment Agreement, upon closing of the Allied Acquisition, the CD&R Stockholder will purchase 400,000 shares of our preferred stock with an aggregate liquidation preference of $400 million, at a purchase price of $1,000 per share (such purchase, the \"Convertible Preferred Stock Purchase\").  Such shares of preferred stock may be converted at any time at the option of the holder into 9,694,619 shares of our common stock representing approximately 14.3% of our outstanding shares of common stock (as of September 30, 2017 and assuming no adjustment to the initial conversion price of $41.26 per share).  In addition, under the terms of the preferred stock, we may, at our option, force the conversion of all (but not less than all) of the outstanding shares of preferred stock to common stock if any time the market price of our common stock exceeds 200% of the then-effective conversion price per share for at least 75 days out of any trailing 90-trading day period.  Any such conversion would significantly dilute our common stockholders and may adversely affect our earnings per share and the market price of our common stock.. If we issue additional shares of preferred stock as \"in-kind\" dividend payments that, together with the 400,000 shares of preferred stock issued to the CD&R Stockholder at closing of the Allied Acquisition, represent in excess of 12,071,937 shares of our common stock on an as-converted basis, and in certain other circumstances as provided in the preferred stock certificate of designations, a \"Triggering Event\" would occur.  Upon the occurrence of a \"Triggering Event,\" the dividend rate will increase to 9.0% per annum for so long as the Triggering Event remains in effect, which will further dilute our common stockholders if we issue additional shares of preferred stock to satisfy our dividend payment obligations.  Moreover, if we declare or pay a cash dividend on our common stock, we will be required to declare and pay a dividend on the outstanding preferred stock on a pro rata basis with the common shares determined on an as-converted basis.  The maximum number of shares of common stock into which the preferred stock may be converted (taking into account any shares of preferred stock issued as in-kind dividend payments) will be limited to 12,071,937 shares of our common stock, which represents 19.99% of the total number of shares of common stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the execution of the Investment Agreement, unless and until we were to obtain stockholder approval of such issuance under the NASDAQ listing rules. The terms of the Investment Agreement and preferred stock do not require us to obtain stockholder approval in these circumstances.. Holders of the preferred stock generally will be entitled to vote with the holders of the shares of Common Stock on all matters submitted for a vote of holders of shares of Common Stock (voting together with the holders of shares of Common Stock as one class) (subject to the limitation that any one preferred stock holder, together with its affiliates, cannot vote any shares in excess of 19.99% of the aggregate voting power of the common stock outstanding immediately prior to the execution of the Investment Agreement). The prior written consent of the holders of a majority of the preferred stock will also be required to, among other things, (i) amend or modify the Company's charter, by-laws or the certificate of designations governing the preferred stock that would adversely affect the preferred stock or (ii) amend the Company's debt agreements to, among other things, adversely affect the Company's ability to pay dividends on the preferred stock, subject to certain exceptions.. 20. The conversion price of the preferred stock is subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, including in the event of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization or similar event.  Adjustments to the conversion price will dilute the ownership interest of our common stockholders.  In addition, holders of preferred stock will have the right to receive a liquidation preference entitling them to be paid out of our assets available for distribution to shareholders, before any payment may be made to holders of shares of common stock, an amount equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the liquidation preference thereof plus all accrued and unpaid dividends or (b) the amount that such holder would have been entitled to receive upon our liquidation, dissolution and winding up if all outstanding shares of preferred stock had been converted into common stock immediately prior to such liquidation, dissolution or winding up, without regard to any of the limitations on conversion or convertibility.. Furthermore, the holders of the preferred stock will have certain redemption rights, including upon certain change of control events involving us, which, if exercised, could require us to repurchase all of the outstanding preferred stock for cash at the original purchase price of the preferred stock plus all accrued and unpaid dividends thereon. Our obligations to pay regular dividends to the holders of the preferred stock or any required repurchase of the outstanding preferred stock could impact our liquidity and reduce the amount of cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures, growth opportunities, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes. Our obligations to the holders of preferred stock could also limit our ability to obtain additional financing or increase our borrowing costs, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. The preferential rights could also result in divergent interests between the holders of the preferred stock and holders of our common stock.. Following the completion of the Allied Acquisition and an 18-month lock-up period, the CD&R Stockholder may sell shares of our common stock issued upon conversion of preferred stock in the public market, which may cause the market price of our common stock to decrease and therefore make it more difficult to raise equity financing or issue equity as consideration in an acquisition.. We will enter into a registration rights agreement with the CD&R Stockholder, which will give this holder (together with its permitted transferees) the right to require us to register all or a portion of its shares under the Securities Act following the expiration of an 18-month lock-up period.  The registration rights for the CD&R Stockholder will allow it to sell its shares without compliance with the volume and manner of sale limitations under Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act and will facilitate the resale of such securities into the public market.  The market value of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by the CD&R Stockholder from time to time.  In particular, the sale of a substantial number of our shares by the CD&R Stockholder within a short period of time, or the perception that such sale might occur, could cause our stock price to decrease, make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future offerings of Beacon common stock or acquire other businesses using Beacon common stock as consideration.. Following the consummation of the Allied Acquisition, the CD&R Stockholder will hold a significant equity interest in us and may exercise significant influence over us, including through its ability to designate up to two directors to our board of directors, and its interests as a preferred equity holder may diverge from or even conflict with your interests.. After giving effect to the Allied Acquisition, the CD&R Stockholder will beneficially own preferred stock convertible into approximately 14.3% of our outstanding common stock (as of September 30, 2017 and assuming no adjustment to the initial conversion price of $41.26 per share) and will become our largest stockholder.  As a result, the CD&R Stockholder may have the indirect ability to influence our policy and operations.  In addition, in connection with the Allied Acquisition, we have entered into the Investment Agreement with the CD&R Stockholder, pursuant to which the CD&R Stockholder will be initially entitled to appoint up to two directors to our board of directors.  Notwithstanding that all directors will be subject to fiduciary duties to us and to applicable law, the interests of the directors designated by the CD&R Stockholder may differ from the interests of our security holders as a whole or of our other directors.  With such representation on our board of directors, the CD&R Stockholder will have influence over the appointment of management and any action requiring the vote of our board of directors, including significant corporate action such as mergers and sales of substantially all of our assets.  The directors controlled by the CD&R Stockholder will also be able to make decisions affecting our capital structure, including decisions to issue additional capital stock and incur additional debt.  Additionally, for so long as the CD&R Stockholder owns preferred stock, certain matters will require the approval of the CD&R Stockholder, including (1) amendments or modifications to the Company's charter, by-laws or the certificate of designations governing the. 21. preferred stock that would adversely affect the preferred stock, (2) authorization, creation, increase in the authorized amount of, or issuance of any class or series of senior or parity equity securities or any security convertible into, shares of senior or parity equity securities, (3) any increase or decrease in the authorized number of preferred shares or the issuance of additional shares of preferred stock, (4) amendments to the Company's debt agreements that would, among other things, adversely affect the Company's ability to pay dividends on the preferred stock, subject to certain exceptions, and (5) the liquidation, dissolution or filing of a voluntary petition for bankruptcy or receivership.  The interests of the CD&R Stockholder as stockholder may not in all cases be aligned with your interests and may even conflict with your interests.  The CD&R Stockholder and its affiliates are in the business of making or advising on investments in companies, including businesses that may directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business.  In addition, the CD&R Stockholder may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investments, even though such a transaction might involve risks to you.  Furthermore, the CD&R Stockholder may in the future own businesses that directly or indirectly compete with us.  The CD&R Stockholder may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us."
