[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. Our disclosure and analysis in this annual report on Form 10-K concerning our operations, cash flows and financial position, including, in particular, the likelihood of our success in developing and expanding our business, include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the \"Securities Act\") and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. Statements that are predictive in nature, that depend upon or refer to future events or conditions, or that include words such as \"expects,\" \"anticipates,\" \"intends,\" \"plans,\" \"believes,\" \"estimates\" and similar expressions are forward-looking statements.. 9. Table of Contents. Although these statements are based upon assumptions we consider reasonable, they are subject to risks and uncertainties that are described more fully below. Accordingly, we can give no assurance that we will achieve the results anticipated or implied by our forward-looking statements.. The radio broadcasting industry faces many unpredictable business risks and is sensitive to external economic forces that could have a material adverse effect on our advertising revenues and results of operations.. Our future operations are subject to many business risks, including those risks that specifically influence the radio broadcasting industry, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. These risks include, but are not limited to:. <U+0095>   shifts in population, demographics or audience preferences;. <U+0095>   increased competition for advertising revenues with other radio stations, broadcast and cable television, newspapers and magazines, outdoor advertising, direct mail, internet radio, satellite radio, smart phones, tablets, and other wireless media, the internet, social media, smart speakers and other forms of advertising; and. <U+0095>   changes in government regulations and policies and actions of federal regulatory bodies, including the Federal Communications Commission, Internal Revenue Service, United States Department of Justice, and the Federal Trade Commission.. The main source of our revenue is the sale of advertising. Our ability to sell advertising can be affected by, among other things:. <U+0095>   economic conditions in the areas where our stations are located and in the nation as a whole;. <U+0095>   the popularity of the programming offered by our stations;. <U+0095>   changes in population, demographics or audience preferences in the areas where our stations are located;. <U+0095>   local and national advertising price fluctuations, which can be affected by the availability of programming, the popularity of programming, and the relative supply of and demand for commercial advertising;. <U+0095>   our competitors' activities, including increased competition from other advertising-based mediums and new technologies;. <U+0095>   decisions by advertisers to withdraw or delay planned advertising expenditures for any reason; and. <U+0095>   other factors beyond our control.. In addition, we believe that for most businesses, advertising is a discretionary business expense, meaning that spending on advertising tends to decline disproportionately during an economic recession or downturn as compared to other types of business spending.. Further, our operations and revenues also tend to be seasonal in nature, with generally lower revenue generated in the first quarter of the year and generally higher revenue generated in the second and fourth quarters of the year. The seasonality of our business reflects the adult orientation of our formats and relationship between advertising purchases on these formats and the retail cycle. This seasonality causes, and will likely continue to cause a variation in our quarterly operating results. Such variations could have a material effect on the timing of our cash flows. In addition, our revenues tend to fluctuate between years, consistent with, among other things, increased advertising expenditures in even-numbered years by political candidates, political parties and special interest groups. This political spending typically is heaviest during the fourth quarter of such years.. Additionally, unfavorable changes in economic conditions as well as declining consumer confidence, recession and other factors could lead to decreased demand for advertising and negatively impact our advertising revenues and our results of operations. We cannot predict with accuracy the timing or duration of any economic downturn generally, or in the markets in which our advertisers operate. If the economic environment does worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience a decline in revenues, which may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Our radio stations may not be able to compete effectively in their respective markets for advertising revenues, which could adversely affect our revenue and cash flows.. We operate in a highly competitive business. A decline in our audience share or advertising rates in a particular market may cause a decline in the revenue and cash flows of our stations located in that market. Our radio stations compete for audiences and advertising revenues within their respective markets directly with other radio stations, as well as with other media outlets. These other media outlets include broadcast and cable television, newspapers and magazines, outdoor advertising, direct mail, internet radio, satellite radio, smart phones, tablets, and other wireless media, the internet, social media such as Facebook and Twitter, and other forms of advertising.. 10. Table of Contents. Our radio stations could suffer a reduction in audience ratings or advertising revenue and could incur increased promotional and other expenses if:. <U+0095>   another radio station in a market was to convert its programming to a format similar to, and thereby compete more directly with, one of our radio stations;. <U+0095>   a new radio station was to adopt a comparable format or if an existing competitor were to improve its audience share; or. <U+0095>   a current or new advertising alternative increased its share of local and national advertising revenue.. Other radio broadcasting companies may enter into markets in which we operate or may operate in the future. These companies may be larger and have more financial resources than we have. As a result, our radio stations may not be able to maintain or increase their current audience ratings and advertising revenues.. Further, advertising revenue may vary from even- to odd-numbered years based on the volatility and unpredictability of political advertising revenue. Political advertising revenue from elections, which is generally greater in even-numbered years, has the potential to create fluctuations in our operating results on a year-to-year basis. In addition, political advertising revenue is dependent on the level of political advertising expenditures and competitiveness of elections within each local market.. We may not remain competitive if we do not respond to changes in technology, standards and services that affect our industry.. The radio broadcasting industry is subject to technological change, evolving industry standards and the emergence of alternate media platforms, technologies and services. We may not have the resources to acquire and deploy other technologies or to introduce new services that could compete with these other technologies. Competition arising from other technologies or regulatory change may have an adverse effect on the radio broadcasting industry or on our Company. Various other audio technologies and services that have been developed and introduced include:. <U+0095>   home and personal digital audio devices (e.g. smart phones, tablets, smart speakers);. <U+0095>   satellite delivered digital audio radio services that offer numerous programming channels;. <U+0095>   internet-based audio music services;. <U+0095>   audio programming by internet content providers, internet radio stations, cable systems, direct broadcast satellite systems, personal communications services and other digital audio broadcast formats;. <U+0095>   HD Radio, which provides multi-channel, multi-format digital radio services in the same bandwidth currently occupied by traditional AM and FM radio services;. <U+0095>   low power FM radio stations, which are non-commercial FM radio broadcast outlets that serve small, localized areas;. <U+0095>   portable digital devices and systems that permit users to listen to programming on a time-delayed basis and to fast-forward through programming and/or advertisements; and. <U+0095>   vehicles equipped with internet connectivity that increase the number of audio platforms available in vehicles.. These and other new technologies have the potential to change the means by which advertisers can reach target audiences most effectively. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that competition arising from other technologies or regulatory change may have on the radio broadcasting industry or on our financial condition and results of operations.. Such new media and technology has resulted in increased fragmentation in the advertising market, and we cannot predict the effect, if any, that additional competition arising from new technologies may have across any of our business segments or our financial condition and results of operations, which may be adversely affected if we are not able to adapt successfully to these new media technologies or distribution platforms. The continuing growth and evolution of channels and platforms has increased our challenges in differentiating ourselves from other media platforms. We continually seek to develop and enhance our content offerings and distribution platforms/methodologies. Failure to effectively execute in these efforts, actions by our competitors, or other failures to deliver content effectively could hurt our ability to differentiate ourselves from our competitors and, as a result, have adverse effects across our business.. Our success is dependent upon audience acceptance of our content, particularly our radio programs, which is difficult to predict.. Media and radio content production and distribution are inherently risky businesses because the revenues derived from the production and distribution of media content or a radio program, and the licensing of rights to the intellectual property associated with the content or program, depend primarily upon their acceptance and perceptions by the public, which are difficult to predict. The commercial. 11. Table of Contents. success of content or a program also depends upon the quality and acceptance of other competing programs released into the marketplace at or near the same time, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions, and other tangible and intangible factors, all of which are difficult to predict.. Ratings for broadcast stations and traffic on a particular website are also factors that are weighed when advertisers determine which outlets to use and in determining the advertising rates that the outlet receives. Poor ratings or traffic levels can lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising revenues. For example, if there is an event causing a change of programming at one of our stations, there could be no assurance that any replacement programming would generate the same level of ratings, revenues, or profitability as the previous programming. In addition, changes in ratings methodology and technology could adversely impact our ratings and negatively affect our advertising revenues.. Finally, the costs of developing and distributing content and programming most popular with the public may change significantly if new performance royalties (such as those that have been proposed by members of Congress from time to time) are imposed upon radio broadcasters or internet operators, and such changes could have a material impact upon our business.. We have substantial debt that could have important consequences to you.. We have debt that is substantial in relation to our stockholders' equity. As of December 31, 2017, we had long-term debt of $225.0 million and stockholders' equity of $286.2 million. Our long-term debt is substantial in amount and could have an impact on you. For example, it could:. <U+0095>   require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to debt service, thereby reducing the availability of cash flows for other purposes, including ongoing capital expenditures and future acquisitions;. <U+0095>   impair our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes;. <U+0095>   limit our ability to compete, expand and make capital improvements;. <U+0095>   increase our vulnerability to economic downturns, limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions; and. <U+0095>   limit or prohibit our ability to pay dividends and make other distributions.. Our ability to reduce our total leverage ratio by increasing operating cash flows and/or decreasing long-term debt will determine how much, if any, of the remaining commitments under our New Credit Facility will be available to us in the future. Poor financial results or unanticipated expenses could result in our failure to maintain or lower our total leverage ratio and we may not be permitted to make any additional borrowings under our New Credit Facility. Any additional borrowings would further increase the amount of our debt and the associated risks. In addition, there can be no assurances that additional financing will be available or on terms that will be acceptable to us.. We are subject to restrictive debt covenants, which may restrict our operational flexibility.. Our New Credit Facility contains various financial and operating covenants, including, among other things, restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, subject our assets to additional liens, enter into certain investments, consolidate, merge or effect asset sales, enter into sale and lease-back transactions, sell or discount accounts receivable, enter into transactions with our affiliates or stockholders, change the nature of our business, pay dividends on and redeem or repurchase capital stock, or make other restricted payments. These restrictions could limit our ability to take actions that require funds in excess of those available to us.. Our New Credit Facility also requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and to satisfy financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests may be affected by events beyond our control and we cannot assure you that we will meet those ratios and tests. If our revenues were to decrease significantly, it may become increasingly difficult for us to meet these financial covenants. Our breach of any of these covenants, ratios, tests or restrictions could result in an event of default under our New Credit Facility. If an event of default exists under our New Credit Facility, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable. If the lenders accelerate the payment of the indebtedness, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full that indebtedness which could force us to seek protection under federal bankruptcy laws and could significantly or entirely reduce the value of our equity.. We may also incur future debt obligations in addition to, or in lieu of, our New Credit Facility. Such future debt obligations might subject us to additional and different restrictive covenants that could further limit our operational flexibility or subject us to other events of default.. 12. Table of Contents. Our ability to pay regular dividends on our common stock is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and may be limited by our structure, statutory restrictions and restrictions imposed by our credit agreement as well as any future agreements.. We intend to pay a regular quarterly cash dividend, however future payments, if any, will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors. Future quarterly dividend payments can also be changed or discontinued at any time and will be subject to limitations under the terms of any existing credit agreements. The payment and timing of any future quarterly dividends will also depend upon, among other things, our future operations and earnings, capital requirements and surplus, general financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors.. We are dependent on federally-issued licenses to operate our radio stations and are subject to extensive federal regulation.. The radio broadcasting industry is subject to extensive regulation by the FCC under the Communications Act. We are required to obtain licenses from the FCC to operate our radio stations. Our business depends upon maintaining our broadcast licenses, which are issued by the FCC for a term of eight years and are renewable. Although the vast majority of FCC radio station licenses are routinely renewed, we cannot assure you that the FCC will approve our future renewal applications or that the renewals will be for full eight-year terms or will not include conditions or qualifications that could adversely affect our operations. The non-renewal, or renewal with substantial conditions or modifications, of one or more of our licenses could have a material adverse effect on us.. We must comply with extensive FCC regulations and policies regarding the ownership and operation of our radio stations. FCC regulations limit the number of radio stations that a licensee can own in a market, which could restrict our ability to consummate any future transactions and in certain circumstances could require us to divest one or more radio stations. Online music services such as Pandora, Spotify and Apple Music are not regulated by the FCC; therefore they are not subject to any ownership restrictions or FCC regulations governing their operations. Our ability to compete with online music services may be impeded because of the extensive FCC regulations to which we are subject. The FCC also requires radio stations to comply with certain technical requirements to limit interference between two or more radio stations. Possible changes in interference protections, spectrum allocations and other technical rules may negatively affect the operation of our stations. If the FCC relaxes certain technical requirements, it could impair the signals transmitted by our radio stations and could have a material adverse effect on us. Moreover, these FCC regulations and others may change over time and we cannot assure you that those changes would not have a material adverse effect on us.. The FCC regulates FM translator stations as a secondary service, and in the event that an FM translator station causes actual interference to the signal of a radio or television station, FCC rules require the FM translator station to eliminate the interference and to suspend operations if the interference cannot be eliminated. If the FCC requires any FM translator station that we operate to modify its facilities to eliminate interference caused to another station or to cease broadcasting, it could materially impair the operations of the station that the FM translator rebroadcasts which could have a material adverse effect on us.. A future impairment of our FCC broadcasting licenses and/or goodwill could adversely affect our operating results.. As of December 31, 2017, our FCC broadcasting licenses and goodwill represented 77.1% of our total assets. We are required to test our FCC broadcasting licenses and goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that our FCC broadcasting licenses and goodwill might be impaired which may result in future impairment losses. The valuation of our FCC broadcasting licenses and goodwill is based on estimates rather than precise calculations. The fair value measurements for both our FCC broadcasting licenses and goodwill use significant unobservable inputs which reflect our own assumptions about the estimates that market participants would use in measuring fair value including assumptions about risk. If actual future results are not consistent with the assumptions and estimates used, we may be exposed to impairment charges in the future, which could be material and could adversely affect our results of operations. For further discussion, see \"Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Estimates\" of this report.. Our corporate offices and several of our radio stations are located in areas that could be affected by hurricanes.. Florida is susceptible to hurricanes and we have our corporate offices and 14 radio stations located there. These radio stations contributed 16.5% of our net revenue in 2017. Although the 2017 hurricane season did not have a material impact on our operations, our corporate offices and our radio stations located in Florida and other radio stations located along the east coast of the United States could be materially affected by hurricanes in the future, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We carry property damage insurance on all of our properties and business interruption insurance on some of our properties, but there can be no assurance that such insurance would be adequate to cover all of our hurricane-related losses.. 13. Table of Contents. The failure or destruction of the internet, satellite systems and transmitter facilities that we depend upon to distribute our programming could adversely affect our operating results.. We use studios, satellite systems, transmitter facilities and the internet to originate and/or distribute our station programs and commercials. We rely on third-party contracts and services to operate our origination and distribution facilities. These third-party contracts and services include, but are not limited to, electrical power, satellite transponders, uplinks and downlinks and telecom circuits. Distribution may be disrupted due to one or more third parties losing their ability to provide particular services to us, which could adversely affect our distribution capabilities. A disruption can be caused as a result of any number of events such as local disasters (accidental or environmental), various acts of terrorism, power outages, cyber-attacks, major telecom connectivity failures or satellite failures. Our ability to distribute programming to station audiences may be disrupted for an undetermined period of time until alternate facilities are engaged and put on-line. Furthermore, until third-party services resume, the inability to originate or distribute programming could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Disruptions or security breaches of our information technology infrastructure could interfere with our operations, compromise client information and expose us to liability, possibly causing our business and reputation to suffer.. Any internal technology error or failure impacting systems hosted internally or externally, or any large scale external interruption in technology infrastructure we depend on, such as power, telecommunications or the internet, may disrupt our technology network. Any individual, sustained or repeated failure of technology could impact our customer service and result in increased costs or reduced revenues. Our technology systems and related data also may be vulnerable to a variety of sources of interruption due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hackers and other security issues. Our technology security initiatives, disaster recovery plans and other measures may not be adequate or implemented properly to prevent a business disruption and its adverse financial consequences to our reputation.. In addition, as a part of our ordinary business operations, we may collect and store sensitive data, including personal information of our clients, listeners and employees. The secure operation of the networks and systems on which this type of information is stored, processed and maintained is critical to our business operations and strategy. Any compromise of our technology systems resulting from attacks by hackers or breaches due to employee error or malfeasance could result in the loss, disclosure, misappropriation of or access to clients', listeners', employees' or business partners' information. Any such loss, disclosure, misappropriation or access could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information, disruption of our operations and damage to our reputation, any or all of which could adversely affect our business.. Our business is dependent upon the proper functioning of our internal business processes and information systems and modification or interruption of such systems may disrupt our business, processes and internal controls.. The proper functioning of our internal business processes and information systems is critical to the efficient operation and management of our business. If these information technology systems fail or are interrupted, our operations may be adversely affected and operating results could be harmed. Our business processes and information systems need to be sufficiently scalable to support the future growth of our business and may require modifications or upgrades that expose us to a number of operational risks. Our information technology systems, and those of third party providers, may also be vulnerable to damage or disruption caused by circumstances beyond our control. These include catastrophic events, power anomalies or outages, natural disasters, computer system or network failures, viruses or malware, physical or electronic intrusions, unauthorized access and cyber-attacks. Any material disruption, malfunction or similar challenges with our business processes or information systems, or disruptions or challenges relating to the transition to new processes, systems or providers, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Vigorous enforcement of the FCC's indecency rules could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The FCC's rules prohibit the broadcast of obscene material at any time and indecent material between the hours of 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. The risk of violating the prohibition on the broadcast of indecent material is increased by the vagueness of the FCC's definition of indecent material, coupled with the spontaneity of live programming. The FCC has expanded the breadth of indecency regulation to include material that could be considered \"blasphemy,\" \"personally reviling epithets,\" \"profanity\" and vulgar or coarse words amounting to a nuisance. As a result, in the event that we broadcast material falling within the expanded breadth of the FCC's regulation, we could be subject to license revocation, renewal or qualifications proceedings, which would put the licenses that we depend on for our operations in jeopardy. In 2007, the monetary penalties for broadcasting indecent programming increased substantially. The current maximum permitted fines are $397,251 per incident and $3,666,930 for any continuing violation arising from a single act or failure to act. In a decision issued in June 2012, the Supreme Court did not find that the FCC's indecency standards were inconsistent with the First Amendment, which means the FCC may continue to enforce the standards. In April 2013, the FCC requested comments on its indecency policy. The FCC has advised that it will continue to pursue enforcement actions in egregious cases while it conducts its review of its indecency policy generally, and in March 2015, the FCC issued a Notice of Apparent Liability for the then maximum forfeiture amount of $325,000 against a television station. Because the FCC may investigate indecency complaints prior to notifying a licensee of the existence of a complaint, a licensee may not have knowledge of a complaint unless and until the complaint results in the issuance of a formal FCC letter of inquiry or notice of apparent liability for forfeiture.. 14. Table of Contents. We may in the future become subject to additional inquiries or proceedings related to our radio stations' broadcast of indecent or obscene material. To the extent that these pending inquiries or other proceedings result in the imposition of fines, revocation of any of our radio station licenses or denials of license renewal applications, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Proposed legislation could require radio broadcasters to pay royalties to record labels and recording artists.. Legislation has been introduced in Congress that would require radio broadcasters to pay a royalty to record labels and performing artists for use of their recorded songs. Currently, we pay royalties to song composers and publishers through Broadcast Music, Inc. (\"BMI\"), the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers (\"ASCAP\"), Global Music Rights (\"GMR\") and SESAC, Inc. (\"SESAC\"). The proposed legislation would add an additional layer of royalties to be paid directly to the record labels and artists. It is currently unknown what proposed legislation, if any, will become law, whether industry groups will enter into an agreement with respect to fees, and what significance this royalty would have on our results from operations, cash flows or financial position.. The FCC's Proposed Incentive Auctions may result in a loss of spectrum for broadcast stations and potentially adversely impact our ability to compete by potentially increasing spectrum for use by wireless carriers.. Federal legislation was enacted in February 2012 that, among other things, authorizes the FCC to conduct voluntary \"incentive auctions\" in order to reallocate certain spectrum currently occupied by television broadcast stations to mobile wireless broadband services, to \"repack\" television stations into a smaller portion of the existing television spectrum band, and to require television stations that do not participate in the auction to modify their transmission facilities, subject to reimbursement for reasonable relocation costs up to an industry-wide total of $1.75 billion.. The FCC has adopted rules concerning the incentive auction for broadcast television spectrum and the repacking of the television band. Under the auction rules implemented by the FCC, television stations were given an opportunity to offer spectrum for sale to the government in a \"reverse\" auction while wireless providers bid to acquire spectrum from the government in a related \"forward\" auction. The incentive auction concluded in April 2017 when the FCC issued a Public Notice announcing the television stations that had relinquished spectrum in the auction and the stations that are being repacked to different channels and establishing deadlines for stations being repacked to file applications to modify their facilities and complete construction of authorized repacked facilities. The FCC will reimburse stations for reasonable relocation costs up to a total across all stations of $1.75 billion. The repacking process could impact radio stations that operate on the same towers as television stations which are required to modify their facilities. Such radio stations could be required to modify their facilities on a temporary or permanent basis to accommodate the modifications that television stations being repacked are required to make to their transmission facilities. Any radio stations that are impacted are not eligible for reimbursement from the FCC of the costs incurred in connection with modification of their facilities.. We may lose key executives and other key employees, including on-air talent, to competing radio stations or other types of media competitors.. Our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of our executive officers and other key employees. The unique combination of skills and experience possessed by our key executives would be difficult to replace, and the loss of a key executive could impair our ability to execute our operating and acquisition strategies.. In addition, we compete for creative and performing on-air talent with other radio stations and radio station groups, radio networks, and other providers of syndicated content and other media such as broadcast television, cable television, satellite television, the internet and satellite radio. Our ability to attract and retain key personnel is an important aspect of our competitiveness. Our employees and other on-air talent are subject to change and may be lost to competitors or for other reasons. Any adverse changes in particular programs, formats or on-air talent could have a material adverse effect on our ratings and our ability to attract advertisers, which would negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our Chairman of the Board controls Beasley Broadcast Group, Inc. and members of his immediate family own a substantial equity interest in Beasley Broadcast Group, Inc. Their interests may conflict with yours.. George G. Beasley is generally able to control the vote on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders. Without the approval of Mr. Beasley, we will be unable to consummate transactions involving an actual or potential change in control, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares over then current market prices. Shares of Class B and Class A common stock that Mr. Beasley beneficially owns represent 59.9% of the total voting power of all classes of our common stock. Members of his immediate family also own significant amounts of Class B common stock. Mr. Beasley will be able to direct our management and policies, except with respect to those matters requiring a class vote under the provisions of our amended certificate of incorporation, third amended and restated bylaws or applicable law.. 15. Table of Contents. Historically, we have entered into certain transactions with George G. Beasley, members of his immediate family and affiliated entities that may conflict with the interests of our stockholders now or in the future. See \"Item 7  -  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation  -  Related Party Transactions\" and Note 15 to the accompanying financial statements.. Future sales by George G. Beasley or members of his family of our Class A common stock could adversely affect its market price.. George G. Beasley and members of his family beneficially own the majority of all outstanding shares of Class B common stock, which is convertible to Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis. The market for our Class A common stock could change substantially if George G. Beasley and members of his family convert their shares of Class B common stock to shares of Class A common stock and then sell large amounts of shares of Class A common stock in the public market.. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, could make it more difficult for us to raise capital by selling equity or equity-related securities in the future.. Future sales of our Class A common stock by the former stockholders of Greater Media could adversely affect its market price.. In connection with the Merger, after post-closing adjustments, we issued 4,084,834 shares of Class A common stock to the former stockholders of Greater Media. As of January 31, 2018, the former stockholders of Greater Media own approximately 14.8% of the outstanding shares of Company Common Stock and approximately 37.6% of the outstanding shares of Class A common stock. The market for our Class A common stock could change substantially if the former stockholders of Greater Media sell large amounts Class A common stock in the public market.. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, could make it more difficult for us to raise capital by selling equity or equity-related securities in the future.. The difficulties associated with any attempt to gain control of our Company may adversely affect the price of our Class A common stock.. Due to his large holdings of our common stock, George G. Beasley and members of his family control the decision whether any change of control of the Company will occur. Moreover, some provisions of our amended certificate of incorporation, fourth amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change of control could be beneficial to you. In addition, the Communications Act and FCC rules and policies limit the number of stations that one individual or entity can own, directly or by attribution, in a market. FCC approval for transfers of control of FCC licensees and assignments of FCC licenses are also required. Because of the limitations and restrictions imposed on us by these provisions and regulations, the trading price of our Class A common stock may be adversely affected.. There may not be an active market for our Class A common stock, making it difficult for you to sell your stock.. Our stock may not be actively traded in the future. An illiquid market for our stock may result in price volatility and poor execution of buy and sell orders for investors. Our stock price and trading volume have fluctuated widely for a number of reasons, including some reasons that may be unrelated to our business or results of operations. This market volatility could depress the price of our Class A common stock without regard to our operating performance. In addition, our operating results may be below expectations of public market analysts and investors. If this were to occur, the market price of our Class A common stock could decrease, perhaps significantly."
