[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Following is a discussion of some of the more significant risks that could materially impact our business.  There may be additional risks that impact our business that we currently do not recognize as, or that are not currently, material to our business.. A challenging global economic environment or a downturn in the markets we serve could adversely affect our operating results and stock price in a material manner.. A challenging global economic environment could cause substantial reductions in our revenue and results of operations as a result of weaker demand by the end users of our products and price erosion.  Price erosion may occur through competitors becoming more aggressive in pricing practices.  A challenging global economy could also make it difficult for our customers, our vendors, and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities.  Our customers could also face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could have an adverse effect on our results if such events cause reductions in revenues, delays in collection, or write-offs of receivables.   Further, the demand for many of our products is economically sensitive and will vary with general economic activity, trends in nonresidential construction, investment in manufacturing facilities and automation, demand for information and broadcast technology equipment, and other economic factors.. Global economic uncertainty could result in a significant decline in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, which could result in a significant adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations; could make it extremely difficult for our customers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities; and could cause our customers to slow or reduce spending on our products and services.  Economic uncertainty could also arise from fiscal policy changes in the countries in which we operate.. Changes in foreign currency rates and commodity prices can impact the buying power of our customers.  For example, a strengthened U.S. dollar can result in relative price increases for our products for customers outside of the U.S., which can have a negative impact on our revenues and results of operations.  Furthermore, customers' ability to invest in capital expenditures, such as our products, can depend upon proceeds from commodities, such as oil and gas markets.  A decline in energy prices, therefore, can have a negative impact on our revenues and results of operations.. The global markets in which we operate are highly competitive.. We face competition from other manufacturers for each of our global business platforms and in each of our geographic regions. These companies compete on price, reputation and quality, product technology and characteristics, and terms. Some multinational competitors have greater engineering, financial, manufacturing, and marketing resources than we have.  Actions that may be taken by competitors, including pricing, business alliances, new product introductions, market penetration, and other actions, could have. 9. Table of Contents. a negative effect on our revenues and profitability.  Moreover, some competitors that are highly leveraged both financially and operationally could become more aggressive in their pricing of products.. Volatility of credit markets could adversely affect our business.. Uncertainty in U.S. and global financial and equity markets could make it more expensive for us to conduct our operations and more difficult for our customers to buy our products.  Additionally, market volatility or uncertainty may cause us to be unable to pursue or complete acquisitions.  Our ability to implement our business strategy and grow our business, particularly through acquisitions, may depend on our ability to raise capital by selling equity or debt securities or obtaining additional debt financing. Market conditions may prevent us from obtaining financing when we need it or on terms acceptable to us.. We may be unable to achieve our goals related to growth.. In order to meet the goals in our strategic plan, we must grow our business, both organically and through acquisitions.  Our goal is to generate total revenue growth of 5-7% per year in constant currency.  We may be unable to achieve this desired growth due to a failure to identify growth opportunities, such as trends and technological changes in our end markets.  We may ineffectively execute our Market Delivery System (\"MDS\"), which is designed to identify and capture growth opportunities.  The broadcast, enterprise, and industrial end markets we serve may not experience the growth we expect.  Further, those markets may be unable to sustain growth on a long-term basis, particularly in emerging markets.  If we are unable to achieve our goals related to growth, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.. We may be unable to implement our strategic plan successfully.. Our strategic plan is designed to continually enhance shareholder value by improving revenues and profitability, reducing costs, and improving working capital management. To achieve these goals, our strategic priorities are reliant on our Belden Business System, which includes continuing deployment of our MDS so as to capture market share through end-user engagement, channel management, outbound marketing, and careful vertical market selection; improving our recruitment and development of talented associates; developing strong global business platforms; acquiring businesses that fit our strategic plan; and becoming a leading Lean company. We have a disciplined process for deploying this strategic plan through our associates. There is a risk that we may not be successful in developing or executing these measures to achieve the expected results for a variety of reasons, including market developments, economic conditions, shortcomings in establishing appropriate action plans, or challenges with executing multiple initiatives simultaneously. For example, our MDS initiative may not succeed or we may lose market share due to challenges in choosing the right products to market or the right customers for these products, integrating products of acquired companies into our sales and marketing strategy, or strategically bidding against OEM partners.  We may fail to identify growth opportunities.  We may not be able to acquire businesses that fit our strategic plan on acceptable business terms, and we may not achieve our other strategic priorities.. We may be unable to achieve our strategic priorities in emerging markets.. Emerging markets are a significant focus of our strategic plan.  The developing nature of these markets presents a number of risks. We may be unable to attract, develop, and retain appropriate talent to manage our businesses in emerging markets.  Deterioration of social, political, labor, or economic conditions in a specific country or region may adversely affect our operations or financial results.  Emerging markets may not meet our growth expectations, and we may be unable to maintain such growth or to balance such growth with financial goals and compliance requirements.  Among the  risks  in emerging market countries are bureaucratic intrusions and delays, contract compliance failures, engrained business partners that do not comply with local or U.S. law, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, fluctuating currencies and interest rates, limitations on the amount and nature of investments, restrictions on permissible forms and structures of  investment,  unreliable  legal  and  financial  infrastructure,  regime disruption  and  political  unrest,  uncontrolled  inflation  and commodity prices,  fierce  local  competition by companies with better political connections, and corruption.  In addition, the costs of compliance with local laws and regulations in emerging markets may negatively impact our competitive position as compared to locally owned manufacturers.. The presence of substitute products in the marketplace may reduce demand for our products and negatively impact our business.. Fiber optic systems are increasingly substitutable for copper based cable systems.  Customers may shift demand to fiber optic systems with greater capabilities than copper based cable systems, leading to a reduction in demand for copper based cable. We may not be able to offset the effects of a reduction in demand for our copper-based cable systems with an increase in demand for our existing fiber optic systems.  Further, the supply chain in the fiber market is highly constrained, with a small number of vertically integrated firms controlling critical inputs and the related intellectual property. These factors, either together or in isolation, may negatively impact revenue and profitability.. 10. Table of Contents. Our future success depends in part on our ability to develop and introduce new products and respond to changes in customer preferences.. Our markets are characterized by the introduction of products with increasing technological capabilities.  Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and offer products that appeal to the changing needs and preferences of our customers in the various markets we serve. Developing new products and adapting existing products to meet evolving customer expectations requires high levels of innovation, and the development process may be lengthy and costly. If we are not able to anticipate, identify, develop and market products that respond to changes in customer preferences, demand for our products could decline.. The relative costs and merits of our solutions could change in the future as various competing technologies address the market opportunities. We believe that our future success will depend in part upon our ability to enhance existing products and to develop and manufacture new products that meet or anticipate technological changes, which will require continued investment in engineering, research and development, capital equipment, marketing, customer service, and technical support.  We have long been successful in introducing successive generations of more capable products, but if we were to fail to keep pace with technology or with the products of competitors, we might lose market share and harm our reputation and position as a technology leader in our markets. See the discussion above in Part I, Item 1, under Research and Development.. The increased prevalence of cloud computing may negatively impact certain aspects of our business.. The nature in which many of our products are purchased or used is evolving with the increasing prevalence of cloud computing and other methods of off-premises computing and data storage.  This may negatively impact one or more of our business in a number of ways, including:. •Consolidation of procurement power leading to the commoditization of IT products;. •Reduction in the demand for infrastructure products previously used to support on-site data centers;. •Lowering barriers to entry for certain markets, leading to new market entrants and enhanced competition;. •Preferences for software as a service billing and pricing models may reduce demand for non-cloud \"packaged\" software.. Alterations to our product mix and go-to-market strategies designed to respond to the changes in the marketplace presented by cloud computing may be disruptive to our business and lead to increase expenses, which may result in lower revenues and profitability. Further, if a competitor is able to more quickly or efficiently adapt, or if cloud computing results in significantly lower barriers to entry and new competitors enter our markets, demand for our products may be reduced.. We must complete further acquisitions in order to achieve our strategic plan.. In order to meet the goals in our strategic plan, we must complete further acquisitions.  The extent to which appropriate acquisitions are made will affect our overall growth, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. Our ability to acquire businesses successfully will decline if we are unable to identify appropriate acquisition targets consistent with our strategic plan, the competition among potential buyers increases, the cost of acquiring suitable businesses becomes too expensive, or we lack sufficient sources of capital. As a result, we may be unable to make acquisitions or be forced to pay more or agree to less advantageous acquisition terms for the companies that we are able to acquire.. We may have difficulty integrating the operations of acquired businesses, which could negatively affect our results of operations and profitability.. We may have difficulty integrating acquired businesses and future acquisitions might not meet our performance expectations.  Some of the integration challenges we might face include differences in corporate culture and management styles, additional or conflicting governmental regulations, preparation of the acquired operations for adoption of ASC 606, compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, financial reporting that is not in compliance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, disparate company policies and practices, customer relationship issues, and retention of key personnel. In addition, management may be required to devote a considerable amount of time to the integration process, which could decrease the amount of time we have to manage the other businesses.  We may not be able to integrate operations successfully or cost-effectively, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations or our profitability. The process of integrating operations could also cause some interruption of, or the loss of momentum in, the activities of acquired businesses.. 11. Table of Contents. Our results of operations are subject to foreign and domestic political, economic, and other uncertainties and are affected by changes in currency exchange rates.. In addition to manufacturing and other operating facilities in the U.S., we have manufacturing and other operating facilities in Brazil, Canada, China, Japan, Mexico, St. Kitts, and several European countries. We rely on suppliers in many countries, including China. Our foreign operations are subject to economic and political risks inherent in maintaining operations abroad such as economic and political destabilization, land use risks, international conflicts, restrictive actions by foreign governments, and adverse foreign tax laws.  In addition to economic and political risk, a risk associated with our European manufacturing operations is the higher relative expense and length of time required to adjust manufacturing employment capacity. We also face political risks in the U.S., including tax or regulatory risks or potential adverse impacts from legislative impasses over, or significant legislative, regulatory or executive changes in fiscal or monetary policy and other foreign and domestic government policies, including, but not limited to, trade policies and import/export policies.. Approximately 47% of our sales are outside the U.S. Other than the U.S. dollar, the principal currencies to which we are exposed through our manufacturing operations, sales, and related cash holdings are the euro, the Canadian dollar, the Hong Kong dollar, the Chinese yuan, the Japanese yen, the Mexican peso, the Australian dollar, the British pound, and the Brazilian real. Generally, we have revenues and costs in the same currency, thereby reducing our overall currency risk, although any realignment of our manufacturing capacity among our global facilities could alter this balance. When the U.S. dollar strengthens against other currencies, the results of our non-U.S. operations are translated at a lower exchange rate and thus into lower reported revenues and earnings.. Changes in tax laws may adversely affect our financial position.. On December 22, 2017, the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\" (the \"Act\") was signed into law.  The Act significantly reforms the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The Act, among other things, includes changes to U.S. federal tax rates, imposes significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest, allows for the immediate expensing of capital expenditures, and puts into effect the migration from a worldwide system of taxation to a territorial system and imposes several other changes to tax law on U.S. corporations. As many of the provisions of the Act do not come into effect until 2018 and further clarification of the law is expected, the total impact on our financial position is uncertain and could be materially adverse.. In addition, many countries in the European Union, as well as a number of other countries and organizations such as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, are actively considering changes to existing tax laws.  If tax laws and related regulations change, our financial results could be materially impacted. Given the unpredictability of these possible changes and their potential interdependency, it is possible such changes could adversely impact our financial results.. We may experience significant variability in our quarterly and annual effective tax rate which would affect our reported net income.. We have a complex tax profile due to the global nature of our operations, which encompass multiple taxing jurisdictions. Variability in the mix and profitability of domestic and international activities, identification and resolution of various tax uncertainties, changes in tax laws and rates, and the extent to which we are able to realize net operating loss and other carryforwards included in deferred tax assets and avoid potential adverse outcomes included in deferred tax liabilities, among other matters, may significantly affect our effective income tax rate in the future.. 12. Table of Contents. Our effective income tax rate is the result of the income tax rates in the various countries in which we do business. Our mix of income and losses in these jurisdictions affects our effective tax rate. For example, relatively more income in higher tax rate jurisdictions would increase our effective tax rate and thus lower our net income. Similarly, if we generate losses in tax jurisdictions for which no benefits are available; our effective income tax rate will increase.  Our effective income tax rate may also be impacted by the recognition of discrete income tax items, such as required adjustments to our liabilities for uncertain tax positions or our deferred tax asset valuation allowance. A significant increase in our effective income tax rate could have a material adverse impact on our earnings.. Of our $561.1 million cash and cash equivalents balance as of December 31, 2017, $184.7 million was held outside of the U.S. in our foreign operations. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 included a one-time transition tax of unremitted foreign earnings, and accordingly, we recorded preliminary tax expense related to the transition tax on the one-time mandatory deemed repatriation of all our foreign earnings as of December 31, 2017. See Note 16 Income Taxes in the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements.. The increased influence of chief information officers and similar high-level executives may negatively impact demand for our products.. As a result of the increasing interconnectivity of a wide variety of systems, chief information officers and similar executives are becoming more heavily involved in operation areas that have not historically been associated with information technology.  As a result, CIOs and IT departments are exercising increased influence over the procurement and purchasing process at the expense of engineers, plant managers and operation personnel that have historically driven demand for many of our products. When making purchasing decisions, CIO's often value interoperability, standardization, cloud-readiness and security over domain expertise and niche application knowledge.  As a result of the increasing influences of CIOs and IT departments, we may face increased competition from IT-industry companies that have not traditionally had major presences in the markets in which we operate.  Further, the variance in considerations that drive purchasing decisions between CIOs and those with niche application expertise may result in increased competition based on price and a reduction in demand for our products.. Potential problems with our information systems could interfere with our business and operations.. We rely on our information systems and those of third parties for storing proprietary company information about our products and intellectual property, as well as for processing customer orders, manufacturing and shipping products, billing our customers, tracking inventory, supporting accounting functions and financial statement preparation, paying our employees, and otherwise running our business. Any disruption, whether from hackers or other sources, in our information systems or those of the third parties upon whom we rely could have a significant impact on our business. In addition, we may need to enhance our information systems to provide additional capabilities and functionality. The implementation of new information systems and enhancements is frequently disruptive to the underlying business of an enterprise.  Any disruptions affecting our ability to accurately report our financial performance on a timely basis could adversely affect our business in a number of respects. If we are unable to successfully implement potential future information systems enhancements, our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows could be negatively impacted.. We, and others on our behalf, store \"personally identifiable information\" (\"PII\") with respect to employees, vendors, customers, and others. While we have implemented safeguards to protect the privacy of this information, it is possible that hackers or others might obtain this information.  If that occurs, in addition to having to take potentially costly remedial action, we also may be subject to fines, penalties, lawsuits, and reputational damage.. Perceived failure of our signal transmission solutions to provide expected results may result in negative publicity and harm our business and operating results.. Our customers use our signal transmission solutions in a wide variety of IT systems and application environments in order to help reduce security vulnerabilities and demonstrate compliance. Despite our efforts to make clear in our marketing materials and customer agreements the capabilities and limitations of these products, some customers may incorrectly view the deployment of such products in their IT infrastructure as a guarantee that there will be no security breach or policy non-compliance event. As a result, the occurrence of a high profile security breach, or a failure by one of our customers to pass a regulatory compliance IT audit, could result in public and customer perception that our solutions are not effective and harm our business and operating results, even if the occurrence is unrelated to the use of such products or if the failure is the result of actions or inactions on the part of the customer.. Our use of open source software could negatively impact our ability to sell our products and may subject us to unanticipated obligations.. 13. Table of Contents. The products, services, or technologies we acquire, license, provide, or develop may incorporate or use open source software. We monitor and restrict our use of open source software in an effort to avoid unintended consequences, such as reciprocal license grants, patent retaliation clauses, and the requirement to license our products at no cost. Nevertheless, we may be subject to unanticipated obligations regarding our products which incorporate or use open source software.. Changes in the price and availability of raw materials we use could be detrimental to our profitability.. Copper is a significant component of the cost of most of our cable products. Over the past few years, the prices of metals, particularly copper, have been highly volatile. Prices of other materials we use, such as polyvinylchloride (PVC) and other plastics derived from petrochemical feedstocks, have also been volatile. Generally, we have recovered much of the higher cost of raw materials through higher pricing of our finished products. The majority of our products are sold through distribution, and we manage the pricing of these products through published price lists which we update from time to time, with new prices typically taking effect a few weeks after they are announced. Some OEM contracts have provisions for passing through raw material cost changes, generally with a lag of a few weeks to three months. If we are unable to raise prices sufficiently to recover our material costs, our earnings could decline. If we raise our prices but competitors raise their prices less, we may lose sales, and our earnings could decline. If the price of copper were to decline, we may be compelled to reduce prices to remain competitive, which could have a negative effect on revenues.  While we generally believe the supply of raw materials (copper, plastics, and other materials) is adequate, we have experienced instances of limited supply of certain raw materials, resulting in extended lead times and higher prices.  If a supply interruption or shortage of materials were to occur (including due to labor or political disputes), this could have a negative effect on revenues and earnings.. Our revenue for any particular period can be difficult to forecast due to the unpredictable timing of large orders.. Our revenue for any particular period can be difficult to forecast, especially in light of the challenging and inconsistent global macroeconomic environment and related market uncertainty. Our revenue may grow at a slower rate than in past periods or even decline on a year-over-year basis.. The timing of large orders can have a significant effect on our operating results in the period in which the order is recognized as revenue. The timing of such orders is difficult to predict, and the timing of revenue recognition from such orders may affect period to period changes in revenue. As a result, our operating results could vary materially from quarter to quarter based on the receipt of such orders and their ultimate recognition as revenue.  Similarly, we are often informed by our customers well in advance that such customer intends to place a large order related to a specific project in a given quarter.  Such a customer's timeline for execution of the project, and the resulting purchase order, may be unexpectedly delayed to a future quarter, or cancelled. The frequency of such delays can be difficult to predict.  As a result, it is difficult to precisely forecast revenue and operating results for future quarters.. Our revenue and profits would likely decline, at least temporarily, if we were to lose a key distributor.. We rely on several key distributors in marketing our products. Distributors purchase and carry the products of our competitors along with our products. Our largest distributor, Anixter International Inc., accounted for 12% of our revenue in 2017 and our top six distributors, including Anixter, accounted for a total of 23% of our revenue in 2017. If we were to lose one of these key distributors, our revenue and profits would likely decline, at least temporarily. Changes in the inventory levels of our products owned and held by our distributors can result in significant variability in our revenues. Further, certain distributors are allowed to return certain inventory in exchange for an order of equal or greater value. We have recorded reserves for the estimated impact of these inventory policies.. Consolidation of our distributors, particularly where the survivor relies more heavily on our competitors, could adversely impact our revenues and earnings. It could also result in consolidation of distributor inventory, which would temporarily depress our revenues.  We have also experienced financial failure of distributors from time to time, resulting in our inability to collect accounts receivable in full. A global economic downturn could cause financial difficulties (including bankruptcy) for our distributors and other customers, which would adversely affect our results of operations.. If we are unable to retain senior management and key employees, our business operations could be adversely affected.. Our success has been largely dependent on the skills, experience, and efforts of our senior management and key employees. The loss of any of our senior management or other key employees, for example sales and product development employees, could have an adverse effect on us. We may not be able to find qualified replacements for these individuals and the integration of potential replacements may be disruptive to our business.  More broadly, a key determinant of our success is our ability to attract, develop, and retain talented associates.  While this is one of our strategic priorities, we may not be able to succeed in this regard.. 14. Table of Contents. We might have difficulty protecting our intellectual property from use by competitors, or competitors might accuse us of violating their intellectual property rights.. Disagreements about patents and other intellectual property rights occur in the markets we serve. Third parties have asserted and may in the future assert claims of infringement of intellectual property rights against us or against our customers or channel partners for which we may be liable. Furthermore, a successful claimant could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages or prevents us from distributing certain products or performing certain services.   We may encounter difficulty enforcing our own intellectual property rights against third parties, which could result in price erosion or loss of market share.. We are subject to laws and regulations worldwide, changes to which could increase our costs and individually or in the aggregate adversely affect our business.. We are subject to laws and regulations affecting our domestic and international operations in a number of areas. These U.S. and foreign laws and regulations affect our activities including, but not limited to, in areas of labor, advertising, real estate, billing, e-commerce, promotions, quality of services, property ownership and infringement, tax, import and export requirements, anti-corruption, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy requirements, anti-competition, environmental, health and safety.. Compliance with these laws, regulations and similar requirements may be onerous and expensive, and they may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, further increasing the cost of compliance and doing business. Any such costs, which may rise in the future as a result of changes in these laws and regulations or in their interpretation, could individually or in the aggregate make our products and services less attractive to our customers, delay the introduction of new products in one or more regions, or cause us to change or limit our business practices. We have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, but there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies and procedures.. Specifically with respect to data privacy, the European Commission has approved a data protection regulation, known as the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which has been finalized and is due to come into force in or around May 2018. The GDPR will include operational requirements for companies that receive or process personal data of residents of the European Union that are different than those currently in place in the European Union, and that will include significant penalties for non-compliance. In addition, some countries are considering or have passed legislation implementing data protection requirements or requiring local storage and processing of data or similar requirements that could increase the cost and complexity of delivering our services.. If our goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, we would be required to recognize charges that would reduce our income.. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., goodwill and certain other intangible assets are not amortized but must be reviewed for possible impairment annually or more often in certain circumstances if events indicate that the asset values may not be recoverable. We have incurred significant charges for the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets in the past, and we may be required to do so again in future periods if the underlying value of our business declines.  Such a charge would reduce our income without any change to our underlying cash flows.. Some of our employees are members of collective bargaining groups, and we might be subject to labor actions that would interrupt our business.. Some of our employees, primarily outside the U.S., are members of collective bargaining groups. We believe that our relations with employees are generally good. However, if there were a dispute with one of these bargaining groups, the affected operations could be interrupted, resulting in lost revenues, lost profit contribution, and customer dissatisfaction."
