[1] "ITEM 1A.       Risk Factors. Belmond's business is subject to various risks, including those described below. Investors should carefully consider the \"Risk Factors\" below. These are separated into three general groups:. • risks of Belmond's business,. • risks relating to Belmond's financial condition and results of operations, and. • risks of investing in class A common shares.. The risks described below are those that management considers to be the most significant for purposes of Item 503(c) of Regulation S-K.. If any of these risks occurs, Belmond's business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. When Belmond states below that a risk may have a material adverse effect, this means the risk may have one or more of these effects. In that case, the market price of the class A common shares could decline.. Risks of Belmond's Business. Belmond's operations are subject to adverse factors generally encountered in the international lodging, hospitality and travel industries.. In addition to the specific conditions, risks and uncertainties discussed in the risk factors below and under Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis, these adverse factors include:. • cyclical downturns arising from changes in economic conditions and general business activities in the United States and European and other countries which impact consumer confidence, levels of travel and demand for travel products,. • rising travel costs such as increased air travel fares and higher fuel costs, and reduced capacities of airlines and other transport services to specific destinations,. • political instability of the governments of some countries where Belmond's properties are located, resulting in depressed demand,. • less disposable income of consumers and the traveling public,. • dependence on varying levels of tourism, business travel and corporate entertainment,. • changes in popular travel patterns,. • competition from other hotels, trains, cruises and leisure time activities,. 18. Table of Contents. • periodic local oversupply of guest accommodation in specific locations, which may adversely affect occupancy and actual room rates achieved,. • increases in operating costs at Belmond's properties due to inflation and other factors which may not be offset by increased revenues,. • economic and political conditions affecting market demand for travel products, including recessions, civil disorder, diplomatic relations, and acts or threats of terrorism,. • foreign exchange rate movements causing fluctuations in reported revenues, costs and earnings and impacting demand for Belmond's properties,. • failure to comply with applicable anti-corruption laws or trade sanctions, potentially exposing Belmond to claims for damages, financial penalties and reputational harm,. • restrictive changes in laws and regulations applicable to zoning and land use, labor and employment, health, safety and the environment, and related governmental and regulatory action,. • costs and administrative burdens associated with compliance with applicable laws and regulations relating to privacy and customer and employee personal data protection, licensing, labor and employment, and other operating matters,. • changing national and local governmental tax laws and regulations, which may increase the taxes Belmond is required to pay,. • expropriation or nationalization of properties by foreign governments of countries where our hotels and other properties are located, and limitations on repatriation of local earnings or withdrawal of local investment,. • availability and cost of capital to fund construction, renovations and investments,. • adverse weather conditions such as severe storms that may temporarily impact demand, destructive forces like fire or flooding that may result in temporary closure of properties, water levels that may impact the Company's cruise operations, or landslides or engineering works that may impact train operations,. • reduction in domestic or international travel and demand for Belmond's properties due to actual or threatened acts of terrorism or war, or actual or threatened outbreak of contagious disease, and heightened travel security measures and restrictions instituted in response to these events,. • interference with customer travel due to accidents or industrial action, increased transportation and fuel costs, and natural disasters,. • with regard to Belmond's hotel management agreements, compliance by Belmond as manager with its contractual performance and financial obligations, maintenance of satisfactory relationships between Belmond as manager and the property owner, and the property owner's ability to meet financial requirements in the contracts such as necessary capital expenditure,. • seasonality, in that many of Belmond's hotels and tourist trains are located in the northern hemisphere where they operate at low revenue or close during the winter months, and. • reliance on third parties to haul the Belmond owned carriages comprising the Company's luxury train businesses.. The effects of many of these factors vary among Belmond's hotels and other properties because of their geographic diversity and the laws and regulations of the particular countries in which these hotels and other properties are located. The global economic downturn in 2008 and 2009 preceded by the shock of terrorist attacks and resulting public concerns about travel safety, continued terrorist attacks, regional conflicts in Iraq, Afghanistan, Ukraine and Crimea, as well as in Thailand, Myanmar and other parts of the world, the threatened flu and Ebola epidemics and the outbreak of the Zika virus, and political instability in Brazil, had and may have, varying adverse effects on Belmond's results of operations. In addition, natural disasters, including weather events, such as Hurricanes Irma and Jose, which impacted both Belmond Cap Juluca on the island of Anguilla in the British West Indies and Belmond La Samanna on St. Martin in the French West Indies, can materially effect the Company's results of operations.. 19. Table of Contents. If revenue decreases at Belmond's properties, its expenses may not decrease at the same rate, thereby adversely affecting Belmond's profitability and cash flow.. Ownership and operation of Belmond's properties involve many relatively fixed expenses such as personnel costs, interest, rent, property taxes, insurance and utilities. If revenue declines when demand weakens, Belmond may not be able to reduce these expenses to the same degree to preserve profitability.. The hospitality industry is highly competitive, both for customers and for acquisitions of new properties.. Some of Belmond's properties are located in areas where there are numerous competitors seeking to attract customers, particularly in city centers and resort locations. Competitive factors in the hospitality industry include:. • reputation and name recognition,. • convenience of location,. • the quality of the physical property and services offered,. • room rates and menu prices,. • the range and quality of food services and amenities offered, and. • types of cuisine.. New or existing competitors could significantly lower rates or offer greater conveniences, services or amenities, or significantly expand, improve or introduce new facilities and amenities in the markets where Belmond operates, thereby adversely affecting profitability. Also, demographic, geographic or other changes in one or more of Belmond's markets could impact the convenience or desirability of its hotels and so could adversely affect their operations and Belmond's local market share.. Belmond competes for hotel acquisition and management agreement opportunities with others such as real estate investors and hotel operators. These competitors may be prepared to accept lower levels of financial return or a higher level of financial risk than Belmond can prudently manage. This competition may have the effect of reducing the number of suitable acquisition, lease and management agreement opportunities offered to Belmond or on which it could successfully bid, and the effect of increasing Belmond's costs or reducing its operating margins because the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell or to enter into management agreements is increased.. The hospitality industry is heavily regulated, including with respect to food and beverage sales, employee relations and welfare, health and safety of premises and employees, development and construction, customer and employee data privacy, and environmental matters, and compliance with these laws and regulations and with future changes to them could reduce profitability of properties that Belmond owns, leases or manages.. Belmond's various properties are subject to numerous laws and government regulations, including those relating to the preparation and sale of food and beverages, liquor service, health and safety of premises, development and construction, and the protection of customers' and employees' personal data. The properties are also subject to laws governing Belmond's relationship with employees in such areas as minimum wage and maximum working hours, overtime, working conditions, health and safety, hiring and firing employees and work permits.. The success of renovating and expanding existing properties depends upon obtaining necessary construction permits, approvals or zoning variances from local authorities. Failure to obtain or delay in obtaining these permits could adversely affect Belmond's strategy of increasing revenues and earnings through renovation and expansion of existing properties.. Belmond is also subject to laws and regulations relating to the environment and the handling of hazardous substances that may impose or create significant potential environmental liabilities, even in situations where the environmental problem or violation occurred at a property before Belmond acquired it or without Belmond's knowledge. Environmental laws may also impose liability for improper handling or disposal of hazardous substances or improper management of certain hazardous material which might be present at Belmond properties, such as asbestos or lead-based paint. Belmond's trains and cruises must comply with environmental regulation of air emissions, wastewater discharges and fueling. Existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or new laws and regulations related to global climate change, air quality, hazardous substances, wastes, or other environmental and health concerns may be adopted or become applicable to Belmond.. 20. Table of Contents. Although Belmond does not currently anticipate that the costs of complying with environmental laws will materially adversely affect its businesses, Belmond cannot assure that it will not incur material costs or liabilities in the future, due to the discovery of new facts or conditions, the occurrence of new releases of hazardous materials, or a change in environmental laws.. Belmond could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar anti-corruption laws.. Belmond's business operations are subject to anti-corruption laws and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\") and the U.K. Bribery Act (\"UKBA\").  The FCPA, UKBA and other anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials and others for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Belmond operates in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, which could reduce the Company's ability to compete successfully in those jurisdictions while remaining in compliance with the FCPA, UKBA and local laws. Belmond trains its employees in its Code of Conduct and Anti-Corruption Policy and Procedures and also requires its third-party business partners and agents and others who work with Belmond or on its behalf to comply with Belmond's anti-corruption policies. Belmond also has procedures and controls in place to monitor internal and external compliance.  Belmond cannot provide assurance, however, that its internal controls and procedures will adequately protect against reckless or criminal acts committed by employees or third parties with whom Belmond works. If Belmond found, or it was alleged, that Belmond's employees or third parties with whom it works had engaged in such acts, Belmond's business could be disrupted and Belmond could be subject to criminal or civil penalties which could have a material adverse effect on Belmond's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Belmond's acquisition, expansion and development strategy may be less successful than expected and, therefore, Belmond's growth may be limited.. Belmond intends to increase its revenues and earnings in the long term by acquiring new properties, managing additional properties under contract, and expanding existing properties. The ability to pursue new growth opportunities successfully will depend on management's ability to:. • identify properties suitable for acquisition, management and expansion,. • negotiate purchases or construction on commercially reasonable terms or successfully negotiate management agreements of properties Belmond does not own or in which it has only a non-controlling interest,. • obtain the necessary financing and government permits or approvals,. • build on schedule and with minimum disruption to guests, and. • integrate new properties into Belmond's operations.. Also, the acquisition and/or management of properties in new locations may present operating and marketing challenges that are different from those experienced at Belmond's existing locations. Belmond can provide no assurance that management will succeed in this growth strategy.. Successful new project development and major expansions depend on timely completion within budget and on satisfactory market conditions. Risks that could affect a project include:. • construction delays or cost overruns that may increase project costs,. • delay or denial of zoning, occupancy and other required government permits and authorizations,. • write-off of development costs incurred for projects that are not pursued to completion,. • natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods or fires,. • defects in design or construction that may result in additional costs to remedy, or that require all or a portion of a property to be closed during the period needed to rectify the situation,. • inability to raise capital to fund a project because of poor economic or financial conditions,. 21. Table of Contents. • claims and disputes between Belmond and other contracting parties resulting in delay, monetary loss or project termination,. • governmental  restrictions on the nature or size of a project or timing of completion,. • labor shortages of qualified trades people or labor disputes,. • changes in market conditions such as oversupply that may affect a project's profitability, and. • discovery or identification of environmental conditions that could require unanticipated studies, cleanups, approvals, increased costs, time delays or even project termination.. Occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect the profitability of planned expansions and new developments.. Belmond may be unable to obtain the necessary additional capital to finance the growth of its business.. The acquisition, expansion and development of luxury assets, as well as the ongoing renovations, refurbishments and improvements required to maintain or upgrade newly acquired, expanded or existing properties, are capital intensive. The availability of internally generated cash flow, future borrowings and access to equity capital markets to fund these acquisitions, expansions and projects depend on prevailing market conditions and the acceptability of available financing terms. Belmond can give no assurance that future borrowings, asset disposition or other capital raising opportunities will be available to Belmond, or available on acceptable terms, in an amount sufficient to fund its needs. Failure to make investments necessary to maintain or improve Belmond's properties could adversely affect the performance of Belmond's properties.. Future equity financings may be dilutive to the existing holders of common shares. Future debt financings may require restrictive covenants that would limit Belmond's flexibility in operating its business. See also \"Risks Relating to Belmond's Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and \"Risks of Investing in Class A Common Shares\" below.. Belmond's operations may be adversely affected by extreme weather conditions and the impact of natural disasters, and insurance may not fully cover these and other risks.. Belmond operates properties in many locations, each of which is subject to local weather patterns affecting the properties and customer travel. As Belmond's revenues and operating performance are dependent on the revenues and performance of individual properties, extreme weather or other environmental conditions from time to time can have a major adverse impact upon individual properties or particular regions, resulting in temporary loss of revenue or even closure while repairs are made. Furthermore, depending on the location and configuration of certain Belmond properties, such as along coasts, lagoons or rivers, they may be subject to possible adverse consequences of global climate change, including water levels or increased extreme weather patterns.. Belmond carries property, liability, hotel business interruption and other kinds of insurance in amounts management deems reasonably adequate, but claims may exceed the insurance limits or be outside the scope of coverage. Also, insurance against some risks may not be available to Belmond on commercially reasonable terms, or available at all, requiring Belmond to self-insure against possible loss. Losses from natural catastrophes may reduce the number of insurance carriers and products in the affected market and can increase insurance premiums for these products.. If the relationships between Belmond and its employees were to deteriorate, Belmond may be faced with labor shortages or stoppages, which would adversely affect the ability to operate its properties and could cause reputational harm to Belmond.. Belmond's relations with its employees in various countries could deteriorate due to disputes related to, among other things, wage or benefit levels, working conditions or management's response to changes in government regulation of workers and the workplace.  Operations rely heavily on employees to provide a high level of personal service, and any labor shortage or stoppage caused by poor relations with employees, including unionized labor, could adversely affect the ability to provide those services, which could reduce occupancy and revenue and damage Belmond's reputation.. 22. Table of Contents. Belmond's owned hotels are subject to risks generally incidental to the ownership and operation of commercial real estate and often beyond Belmond's control.. These include:. • fluctuating values of commercial real estate and potential asset value impairments due to operating performance falling short of expectation or other triggering events,. • changes in national, regional and local economic and political conditions,. • changes in interest rates and the availability, cost and terms of financing,. • the impact of present or future government legislation and regulation (including environmental and eminent domain laws),. • the ongoing need for capital improvements to maintain or upgrade properties,. • potential discovery of environmental conditions associated with prior or present operations on site or nearby, and proper management and disposal of wastes and hazardous substances,. • changes in property taxes and operating expenses,. • the potential for uninsured or underinsured losses, and. • limited ability to reduce the relatively high fixed costs of operating owned commercial real estate if revenue declines.. Belmond continues to review its portfolio to identify properties that are non-core to its business and expects any future asset sales would be encumbered by long-term management agreements for Belmond. In an unfavorable commercial real estate market, Belmond may be unable to sell properties at values it is seeking, particularly during an economic downturn and weakness in credit markets, or sell them at the pace Belmond had planned, or encumbered by the long-term management agreements it is seeking.. Loss, dilution or infringement of Belmond's existing brand names or the failure to develop successful new brand names could adversely affect Belmond's business.. In the competitive hotel and leisure industry in which Belmond operates, trademarks and brand names are important in the marketing, promotion and revenue generation of Belmond's properties. Belmond has a large number of trademarks and brand names and expends resources each year on their surveillance, registration and protection in an increasing number of jurisdictions. Belmond may also introduce new brand names in the future. Belmond's future growth is dependent in part on increasing and developing its brand identities and customers' acceptance of those brands. From time to time, Belmond incurs costs in seeking to protect its intellectual property and in doing so, runs the risk that a court may not uphold its rights. The loss, dilution or infringement of any of Belmond's brand identities or individual country trademark registrations, including any material losses or infringements of its current rights to the \"Cipriani\" brand, could have an adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition.. Belmond operates the Venice Simplon-Orient-Express train under a license of that trademark from SNCF. Termination of that license could have an adverse impact on Belmond's business.. Failures in Belmond's information technology systems or in protecting the integrity of customer, employee and business data could reduce revenue and earnings and result in loss or in reputational harm.. Belmond's business involves the processing, use, storage and transmission of personal information regarding customers, employees and business partners for various business purposes, including marketing and promotions. Belmond is subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect personal financial and other information relating to customers, employees and the business, and has established policies and procedures to help protect the privacy and security of this information. These laws and regulations are complex and evolving and may, on occasion, be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. Compliance may increase Belmond's operating costs or limit Belmond's ability to market its properties and services. The EU General Data Protection Regulation will become law in May 2018, increasing certain obligations on, and limiting certain uses by, businesses of the personal data of their customers, employees and business partners. The penalties for violation of this new law have increased significantly, with a maximum fine of 4% of group revenue or \20020 million, whichever is higher, for the most serious breaches. The impact of Brexit (see \"Risks Relating to Belmond's Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Economic downturns and disruptions. 23. Table of Contents. in the financial markets could adversely affect Belmond's financial condition and results of operations\" below) could increase the Company's regulatory obligations and/or require the Company to amend its processes and controls for the use, transfer and processing of personal data.. Belmond depends on its own and third party information technology networks and systems to process, transmit and store company and personal information, and to communicate among its various locations around the world, including reservation systems, property management systems, customer and employee databases, administrative systems, and third-party vendor systems. While Belmond relies on the security of these networks and systems to protect the personal and business information of the Company, customers, employees and business partners, they may be vulnerable to threats such as system, network or Internet failures, security breaches, computer hacking or business disruption, viruses or malicious software programs, employee error, negligence, fraud or misuse, or other unauthorized attempts to access, modify or delete Belmond's company and personal information. Although Belmond has taken steps to address these concerns by implementing network security and internal controls, there can be no assurance that a system failure, unauthorized access, or other compromise will not occur. While from time to time third parties attempt to access the Company's network, we are not aware of any instance in which these attempts have resulted in any material release of information, degradation or disruption to the Company's network and information systems.. Any compromise of Belmond's networks or systems, public disclosure or loss of company or personal information, non-compliance with legal or contractual obligations regarding personal information, or a violation of a privacy or security policy pertaining to personal information could result in disruption to Belmond's operations; loss of revenue or property; damage to Belmond's reputation and loss of confidence of customers, employees and business partners; legal claims or proceedings, including securities class action lawsuits, liability under laws that protect personal information, regulatory penalties, monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines, and/or criminal or civil prosecution in one or more jurisdictions; decline in Belmond's stock price; and could result in subjecting Belmond to additional regulatory scrutiny, or additional costs and liabilities which could have a material adverse effect Belmond's business, operations or financial condition.. Some Belmond properties are geographically concentrated in countries where national economic downturns, political events or other changing conditions beyond Belmond's control could disproportionately affect Belmond's business.. While Belmond's geographic diversification in 24 countries lessens the dependence of its results of operations on any particular region, Belmond owns seven hotels in Italy and one hotel in Peru and its 50%/50% joint ventures in Peru operate a further five hotels as well as PeruRail. Due to this concentration of properties in these two countries, Belmond's performance and profitability are more exposed to national or regional events or conditions in Italy and Peru than other countries where Belmond operates, such as:. • changing local economic and competitive conditions,. • weakening local currencies compared to the U.S. dollar,. • natural and other disasters,. • new government laws and regulations, and. • political instability and/or changes in government administrations.. Changing economic, political and regulatory developments in any of the countries in which the Company operates, including in the U.K. in respect of its expected withdrawal from the EU (commonly referred to as \"Brexit\") and in the U.S. in respect of its evolving trade and immigration policies and the Tax Cut and Jobs Act of 2017, along with the evolving political situation in Ukraine, Brazil and Peru and regional events in Myanmar, could adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations.. Belmond may be unable to manage effectively the risks associated with its joint venture investments, which may adversely impact the operations and profitability of those joint ventures.. Five of Belmond's hotels and two of its train operations are owned by joint venture companies in which Belmond has an investment of 50% or less and shares control of at least some significant aspects of their businesses, such as expenditure for capital improvements. These joint venture investments of Belmond involve risks different from 100% ownership and control because Belmond's partners:. • may be unable to meet their financial obligations to the joint venture,. 24. Table of Contents. • may have business interests inconsistent with those of Belmond or act contrary to Belmond's objectives and policies,. • may cause properties to incur unplanned liabilities or commitments, or. • may take actions binding on the joint venture without Belmond's consent or that otherwise may impair Belmond's operation of the business.. If any of these events occurs, the joint ventures may be subjected to additional risk, and Belmond's operations could be adversely affected because it may have limited ability to rectify resulting problems within the joint venture and even to dispose of its joint venture investment. Also, disputes with joint venture partners may result in litigation costly to Belmond.. Risks Relating to Belmond's Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Economic downturns and disruption in the financial markets could adversely affect Belmond's financial condition and results of operations.. Financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia experienced significant disruption in 2008 and 2009, including volatility in securities prices and diminished liquidity and credit availability. In addition, the economic slowdown during this period in the United States and other countries weakened consumer confidence and led to significant reductions in the amounts persons and businesses spent on travel, hotels, dining and entertainment. Largely as a result, Belmond experienced pressure on pricing, reduced occupancy at its properties, and fewer customers from traditional markets for Belmond's hotels and other travel products.  Belmond's consolidated revenue and earnings from continuing operations declined. Although revenue has since increased, Belmond incurred losses or reduced earnings in 2010 and later years due mainly to higher costs and impairment charges.. While the global economy has improved since the 2008-2009 recession, if the global economic recovery slows or adverse economic conditions recur in any of the jurisdictions in which Belmond conducts business, Belmond's future revenue, profitability and cash flow from operations could decrease and its liquidity and financial condition, including Belmond's ability to comply with financial covenants in its loan facilities, could be adversely impacted and its future growth plans curtailed.. Belmond has nine hotels, the Venice Simplon-Orient-Express train and the Belmond Afloat in France cruise business in Continental Europe and the Belmond Grand Hibernian train in Ireland. If uncertainty regarding euro-zone debt recurs and measures taken by European governments contribute to weakness of national economies, financial markets could experience disruption and consumer confidence could decline, resulting in less demand for these properties and negatively impacting Belmond's results of operations and financial condition.. On March 29, 2019, the U.K. will cease to be a member of the European Union. Negotiations have commenced between the British Government and the EU to agree the terms of the U.K.'s departure and those to govern its future relationship with the EU member states. Although it is unknown what the final Brexit terms will be, it is possible that there will be increased regulatory complexities and an impact on exchange rates, which may adversely affect our operations and financial results. In addition, while we believe it is too early to assess the full impact on the Company of the U.K.'s decision to leave the EU, a weaker pound or British economy could impact the travel preferences of the Company's guests who originate from the U.K. and could affect the operations and financial results at those properties that have a significant proportion of British visitors, such as Belmond Reid's Palace, Belmond La Residencia, the Italian properties and the Company's U.K. businesses. If as a consequence of Brexit, visas are introduced as a requirement for EU nationals to work in the U.K. (or for U.K. nationals to work in the EU), this could adversely affect the Company's ability to attract and retain high-caliber staff. In the U.S., evolving trade and immigration policies and the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 could adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations.. Financial uncertainty and economic weakness identified in the previous risk factor could adversely impact Belmond's liquidity and financial condition, in particular Belmond's ability to refinance debt or raise additional funds for its cash requirements for working capital, commitments and debt service.. During the year ending December 31, 2018, Belmond will have $6,407,000 of scheduled debt repayments including capital lease payments and debt held by consolidated variable interest entities. In 2019, Belmond will have $118,428,000 of scheduled debt repayments including capital lease payments and debt held by consolidated variable interest entities. Belmond's capital commitments at December 31, 2017 amounted to $19,464,000.. Belmond expects to fund its working capital requirements, debt service and capital expenditure commitments for the foreseeable future from operating cash flow, available committed borrowing facilities, issuing new debt or equity securities, rescheduling loan repayments or capital commitments, and disposing of non-core assets. See \"Liquidity and Capital Resources\" in Item 7 -. 25. Table of Contents. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Belmond can give no assurance, however, that additional sources of financing for its unfunded commitments will be available on commercially acceptable terms, or available at all, or that Belmond will be able to refinance maturing debt or to reschedule loan repayments or capital commitments, dispose of non-core assets or that other cash-saving steps management may take to enhance Belmond's liquidity and capital position will bridge any shortfall. If additional sources of financing are unavailable, including because of possible future breach of loan financial covenants, Belmond may be unable to fund its cash requirements for working capital, commitments and debt service.. Covenants in Belmond's financing agreements could be breached or could limit management's discretion in operating Belmond's businesses, causing Belmond to make less advantageous business decisions.. Belmond recognizes the risk that a property-specific or group consolidated loan covenant could be breached. Belmond regularly prepares cash flow projections which are used to forecast covenant compliance under all loan facilities. If there appears to be a likelihood of potential non-compliance with a covenant, Belmond would as a general rule meet with the lenders to seek an amendment to, or a waiver of, the financial covenant at risk. Obtaining an amendment or waiver may result in an increase in bank fees or borrowing costs, or may not be obtainable at all. If a covenant breach occurred in a material loan facility and Belmond were to be unable to agree with its lenders as to how the particular financial covenant should be amended or how the breach could be cured or waived, Belmond's liquidity would be materially adversely affected. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated July 3, 2017, between Belmond and its senior secured lenders governing the $703,434,000 credit facility described above (the \"Amended and Restated Credit Agreement\") contains a consolidated net leverage covenant in respect of the revolving credit facility. Under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the term loan portion of the credit facility is subject to cross-acceleration with the revolving credit facility. Therefore, if the Company were to breach this consolidated net leverage covenant, the entire credit facility could be accelerated and the lenders could foreclose on substantially all of the Company's assets. In addition, the negative covenants in the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement place restrictions on the Company's ability to incur additional debt, to effect mergers and assets sales, and to pay dividends or repurchase shares. These covenants may limit the options available should management determine that the Company has insufficient liquidity.. Belmond's substantial indebtedness could adversely affect its financial condition.. Belmond has a large amount of debt in its capital structure and may incur additional debt from time to time. As of December 31, 2017, Belmond's consolidated long-term indebtedness was $724,230,000 (including the current portion and the long-term indebtedness of Belmond's consolidated variable interest entities of $112,857,000). This substantial indebtedness could:. • require Belmond to dedicate much of its cash flow from operations to debt service payments, and so reduce the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product and service development and other general corporate purposes,. • limit Belmond's ability to obtain additional financing for its business or to repay or refinance its existing indebtedness on satisfactory terms,. • increase Belmond's vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, including the seasonality of some of Belmond's activities,. • limit Belmond's flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and industry as well as the economy generally, or. • limit Belmond's ability to plan for, or advance, its strategic growth plan.. Belmond's failure to repay indebtedness when due may result in a default under that indebtedness and cause cross-defaults under other Belmond indebtedness. See the risk factor immediately above.. Increases in interest rates may increase Belmond's interest payment obligations under its existing floating rate debt, and refinanced debt may have higher interest rates than the debt refinanced.. After taking into account Belmond's fixed interest rate swaps, approximately 52% of Belmond's consolidated long-term debt at December 31, 2017 bears interest that fluctuates with prevailing interest rates, so that any rate increases may increase Belmond's interest payment obligations. From time to time, Belmond enters into hedging transactions in order to manage its floating interest rate exposure, but Belmond can give no assurance that those hedges will lessen the impact on Belmond of rising interest rates. Also, as Belmond refinances its long-term debt with new debt, the interest payable on the new debt may be at a higher rate than the debt refinanced.. 26. Table of Contents. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on Belmond's financial condition and operating results.. Substantial portions of Belmond's revenue and expenses are denominated in non-U.S. currencies such as European euros, British pounds sterling, Russian rubles, South African rand, Peruvian nuevos soles, Botswana pula, Brazilian reals, Mexican pesos and various Southeast Asian currencies. In addition, Belmond buys assets and incurs liabilities in these foreign currencies. Foreign exchange rate fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on Belmond's financial statements. Belmond's financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars and can be impacted by foreign exchange fluctuations through both:. • translation risk, which is the risk that the financial statements for a particular period or as of a certain date depend on the prevailing exchange rates of the various currencies against the U.S. dollar,. • transaction risk, which is the risk associated with changes in exchange rates between the time when a transaction is initially recorded and when it is ultimately settled, and. • economic risk, which is the risk that the currency of costs and liabilities does not move in line with the currency of revenue and assets, which fluctuations may adversely affect Belmond's operating margins.. Belmond is subject to accounting regulations and uses certain accounting estimates and judgments that may differ significantly from actual results.. Implementation of existing and future accounting standards and rules of the U.S. Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") or other regulatory bodies could affect the presentation of Belmond's financial statements and related disclosures. Future regulatory requirements could significantly change Belmond's current accounting practices and disclosures. These changes in the presentation of Belmond's financial statements and related disclosures could change an investor's interpretation or perception of Belmond's financial position and results of operations. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements.. Belmond uses many methods, estimates and judgments in applying its accounting policies. By their nature, these are subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead Belmond to change its methods, estimates and judgments which could significantly affect the presentation of Belmond's financial condition and/or results of operations.. As an example of these estimates and judgments, Belmond evaluates goodwill for impairment at least annually, or when triggering events or changes in circumstances, such as adverse changes in the industry or economic trends or an underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. The Company recorded a goodwill impairment charge in 2017 and the Company continues to monitor goodwill balances for future potential impairment (see Note 9 to the Financial Statements). Belmond's impairment analysis under U.S. GAAP incorporates various assumptions and uncertainties that management believes are reasonable and supportable considering all available evidence, such as the future cash flows of the business, future growth rates and the related discount rates. However, these assumptions and uncertainties are, by their very nature, highly judgmental. Belmond cannot guarantee that its business will achieve the forecasted results which have been included in its impairment analysis. If Belmond is unable to meet these assumptions in future reporting periods, it may be required to record a charge for goodwill impairment losses.. Risks of Investing in Class A Common Shares. The price of the class A common shares may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for shareholders to sell the class A common shares when they want or at desired prices.. The price of the class A shares trading on the NYSE constantly fluctuates, and Belmond management expects that the market price of the class A shares will continue to do so. Holders of class A shares will be subject to the risk of volatility and depressed prices.. The price of class A shares can fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond Belmond's control. These factors include:. • quarterly variations in operating results,. • operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors,. 27. Table of Contents. • changes in expectations as to future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors,. • developments generally affecting Belmond's business or the hospitality industry,. • market speculation about a potential acquisition of Belmond or all or part of its business,. • announcements by Belmond or its competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint ventures or capital commitments,. • announcements of significant claims or proceedings against Belmond,. • future sales of equity or equity-linked securities including by holders of large positions in the outstanding class A shares, and. • general domestic and international economic and political conditions.. In addition, the stock market in general can experience volatility that is often unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. This volatility can arise, for example, because of disruption in capital markets and contraction of credit availability, and can be significant. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of the class A shares.. The Company is not restricted from issuing additional class A or class B common shares, and any sales could negatively affect the trading price and book value of the class A common shares outstanding.. The Company may in its discretion sell newly issued class A or B common shares from time to time in the future, subject to compliance with certain procedural requirements of the NYSE relating to the class A common shares and applicable securities laws. There can be no assurance that the Company will not make significant sales of class A or B common shares in public offerings or private placements to raise capital, for funding future acquisitions, in employee equity compensation programs or for other corporate purposes. Any sales could materially and adversely affect the trading price of the class A shares outstanding or could result in dilution of the ownership interests of existing shareholders.. A subsidiary of the Company, which has two Company directors on its board of directors, may control the outcome of most matters submitted to a vote of the Company's shareholders.. A wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, Belmond Holdings 1 Ltd. (\"Holdings\"), currently holds all 18,044,478 outstanding class B common shares in the Company representing about 64% of the combined voting power of outstanding class A and B common shares for most matters submitted to a vote of shareholders, and the directors and officers of the Company hold class A shares representing an additional approximate 0.5% of the combined voting power. In general, holders of class A common shares and holders of class B common shares vote together as a single class, with holders of class A shares having one-tenth of one vote per share and holders of class B shares having one vote per share. Therefore, as long as the number of outstanding class B shares exceeds one-tenth the number of outstanding class A shares, Holdings could control the outcome of most matters submitted to a vote of the shareholders.. Under Bermuda law, common shares of the Company owned by Holdings are outstanding and may be voted by Holdings. The manner in which Holdings votes its shares is determined by the four directors of Holdings, two of whom, Harsha Agadi and Mitchell C. Hochberg, are also directors of the Company, consistent with the exercise by those directors of their fiduciary duties to Holdings. Those directors, should they choose to act together, will be able to control substantially all matters affecting the Company, and to block a number of matters relating to any potential change of control of the Company. See Item 12 - Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.. Certain institutional shareholders representing two hedge fund groups challenged the Company's corporate governance structure as it relates to the ownership and voting of class B common shares, including by proposing shareholder resolutions to amend the Company's bye-laws to treat the class B shares as \"treasury shares\" with no voting rights and to cancel the class B shares. Those resolutions were rejected at a special general meeting of shareholders of the Company in October 2008 by a majority of the votes of the outstanding class A and class B common shares, voting together as a single class. Following the defeat of the resolutions at the special general meeting, these shareholders filed a petition in the Supreme Court of Bermuda in January 2009 against the Company, Holdings and certain of the Company's directors seeking similar and related relief, including a declaration that the Company holding or voting class B shares, directly or indirectly, was unlawful and an order restraining Holdings from exercising its voting rights attached to the class B shares. After a trial on preliminary issues relating to the legality of the holding of class B shares in the Company by Holdings, the Court ruled in June 2010 that it is lawful for Holdings to hold and exercise voting rights. 28. Table of Contents. in respect of class B shares in the Company held by Holdings and struck out the petition in its entirety. The Court also awarded the respondents their defense costs incurred in the proceedings. The foregoing description of the Court's judgment does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the judgment, which the Company filed as Exhibit 99.1 to its Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 1, 2010 and is incorporated herein by reference.. The corporate governance structure of the Company, with dual class A and B common shares and ownership and voting of the class B shares by Holdings, has been analyzed by legal counsel, and the Company's board of directors and management believe that the structure is valid under Bermuda law. The judgment of the Bermuda Supreme Court in June 2010 confirms this belief.  The structure enables Belmond to oppose any proposal that Belmond believes is contrary to the best interests of the Company and its shareholders, including a coercive or unfair offer to acquire the Company, and thus preserve the value of Belmond for all shareholders. The structure has been in place since the Company's initial public offering in 2000, and has been fully described in the Company's public filings and clearly disclosed to investors considering buying the class A common shares.. However, new litigation against the Company involving its corporate governance structure or other future challenges may occur, the outcome of which may be uncertain. Furthermore, new litigation or future challenges may cause the Company to incur costs, such as legal expenses, to defend its corporate governance structure and these costs may be substantial in amount.. Provisions in the Company's charter documents, and the preferred share purchase rights currently attached to the class A and class B common shares, may discourage a potential acquisition of Belmond, even one that the holders of a majority of the class A common shares might favor.. The Company's memorandum of association and bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire Belmond or to engage in another form of transaction involving a change of control of the Company without the consent of the Company's board of directors. These provisions include:. • a supermajority shareholder voting provision for the removal of directors from office with or without cause,. • a supermajority shareholder voting provision for \"business combination\" transactions with beneficial owners of shares carrying 15% or more of the votes which may be cast at any general meeting of shareholders, and. • limitations on the voting rights of such 15% beneficial owners.. Also, the Company's board of directors has the right under Bermuda law to issue preferred shares without shareholder approval, which could be done to dilute the share ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. Although management believes these provisions provide the shareholders an opportunity to receive a higher price by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with the Company's board of directors, these provisions apply even if the offer is favored by shareholders holding a majority of the Company's equity.. The Company has in place a shareholder rights agreement providing for rights to purchase series A junior participating preferred shares of the Company. The rights are not currently exercisable, and they are attached to and transferable with the class A and B common shares on a one-to-one basis. These rights may have anti-takeover effects on a potential acquirer holding 15% or more of the outstanding class A or B common shares.. These anti-takeover provisions are in addition to the ability of Holdings and directors and officers of the Company to vote shares representing a significant majority of the total voting power of the Company's common shares. See the risk factor immediately above and Item 12 - Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters - Voting Control of the Company; Changes in Control.. A judgment of a United States court for liabilities under the U.S. securities laws might not be enforceable in Bermuda, or an original action might not be brought in Bermuda against the Company for liabilities under U.S. securities laws.. The Company is incorporated in Bermuda, a majority of its directors or executive officers are not U.S. citizens or residents, and most of its assets and the assets of its directors and officers are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for shareholders to:. • effect service of process within the United States upon the Company or its directors and officers, or. • enforce judgments obtained in United States courts against the Company or its directors and officers based upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws.. 29. Table of Contents. Belmond has been advised by its Bermuda legal counsel that there is doubt as to:. • whether a judgment of a United States court based solely upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws would be enforceable in Bermuda against the Company or its directors and officers, and. • whether an original action could be brought in Bermuda against the Company or its directors and officers to enforce liabilities based solely upon the United States federal securities laws."
