[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The risks set forth below, in addition to the other risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, may adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, and operating results. In addition to the risks set forth below and the other risks described in this annual report, there may also be additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems to be immaterial that could materially and adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition or operating results. As a result, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Further, to the extent that any of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitutes forward-looking statements, the risk factors set forth below also are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company.. Lending. Deterioration in the Housing Sector, Commercial Real Estate, and Related Markets May Adversely Affect Business and Financial Results.. Real estate lending is a major business activity for the Company. Real estate market conditions affect the value and marketability of real estate collateral, and they also affect the cash flows, liquidity, and net worth of many borrowers whose operations and finances depend on real estate market conditions. Adverse conditions in the Company's market areas could reduce growth rates, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans, and generally affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Potential increases in interest rates could increase capitalization rates which could adversely affect commercial property appraisals and collateral value.. The Company's Emphasis on Commercial Lending May Expose the Company to Increased Lending Risks, Which Could Hurt Profits.. The Company emphasizes commercial lending, which generally exposes the Company to a greater risk of nonpayment and loss because repayment of such loans often depends on the successful operations and income stream of the borrowers. Commercial loans are historically more susceptible to delinquency, default, and loss during economic downturns. Commercial lending involves larger loan sizes and larger relationship exposures, with greater potential impact on profits in the event of adverse loan performance. The majority of the Company's commercial loans are secured by real estate and subject to the previously discussed real estate risk factors.  Geographic expansion may result in new risks not identified by the Company or which it is unfamiliar with monitoring or resolving. Recent expansion has been focused on the Greater Boston market, where the Bank may be financing projects with larger loan amounts and where the Bank has less experience than in its traditional market areas and where competition may result in different lending structures.. The Company is subject to a variety of risks in connection with any sale of loans it may conduct.. In connection with the Company's sale of one or more loan portfolios, it may make certain representations and warranties to the purchaser concerning the loans sold and the procedures under which those loans have been originated and serviced. If any of these representations and warranties are invalid, the Company may be required to indemnify the purchaser for any related losses, or it may be required to repurchase part or all of the affected loans, which may be impaired. The Company may also be required to repurchase loans as a result of borrower fraud or in the event of early payment default by the borrower on a loan it has sold. The Company's ability to maintain seller/servicer relationships with government agencies and government backed entities may be jeopardized in the event of the emergence of one or more of the above risks. Demand for the Company's loans in the secondary markets could also be affected by these risks, which could lead to a reduction in related business activities.. The Company may be required to reduce the value of any loans it marks as held for sale, which could adversely affect its results of operations.. The Company is exposed to risk of environmental liability when it takes title to property. In the course of its business, the Company may foreclose on and take title to real estate. As a result, the Company could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. The Company. 29. Table of Contents. may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property.. Operating. Expansion, Growth, and Acquisitions Could Negatively Impact Earnings If Not Successful.. The Company plans to grow organically, by geographic expansion, through business line expansion, and through acquisitions. Successful expansion depends on the maintenance and development of an adequate infrastructure. Success also depends on customer acceptance and the long-term recruitment and retention of key personnel and acquired customer relationships. Profitability depends on whether the income generated will offset the increased operating expenses. The Company implemented certain expense restructuring activities, related in part to the rationalization of acquired operations. Changes in operations may result in inefficiencies or control deficiencies.. Merger and acquisition activities are subject to a number of risks, including lending, operating, and integration risks. Such growth requires careful due diligence, evaluation of risks, and projections of future operations and financial conditions.  Adverse developments could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions often involve extensive merger agreements, which may lead to litigation risks or operating constraints.. The Company has recruited executive and business line management to support its growth and expansion, and it has absorbed management of acquired operations. This involves retention risks, operating risks, and financial risks. Such recruitment can affect the retention of new and old business, and can also be affected by competitive reactions and other relationship risks in retaining accounts. The relocation of the Company's headquarters may affect operational functioning.. Regulatory examinations may identify matters requiring attention. Deficiencies related to regulatory compliance may result in changes that affect operating revenues and costs, including the scope or scale of business activities and/or potential future expansion initiatives. The Company has crossed the $10 billion threshold for additional Dodd Frank regulatory requirements. These regulations affect revenues and operating costs, and introduce additional compliance requirements. If targeted earnings accretion is not achieved, some profitability metrics may be reduced. The Company may also face additional acquisition approval requirements, and growth plans could be slowed if expected approvals are not obtained.. Competition From Financial Institutions and Other Financial Service Providers May Adversely Affect the Company's Growth and Profitability.. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. Larger banking institutions have substantially greater resources and lending limits and may offer certain services not offered by the Company. Local competitors with excess capital may accept lower returns on new business. There is increased competition by out-of-market competitors through the internet and mobile technology. Federal regulations and financial support programs may in some cases favor competitors. Competition includes competition for banking teams and talent. Competition creates risk that revenues, earnings, or market share could be adversely affected by the loss of talent.. Market Changes May Adversely Affect Demand For The Company's Services and Impact Revenue, Costs, and Earnings.. Channels for servicing the Company's customers are evolving rapidly, with less reliance on traditional branch facilities, more use of online and mobile banking, and demand for universal bankers and other relationship managers who can service multiple product lines. The Company has an ongoing process for evaluating the profitability of its branch system and other office and operational facilities. The identification of unprofitable operations and facilities can lead to restructuring charges and introduce the risk of disruptions to revenues and customer relationships. The Company competes with larger providers who are rapidly evolving their service channels and escalating the costs of evolving the service process.. The Company is Subject to Security and Operational Risks Relating to the Use of Technology that Could Damage the Company's Reputation and Business.. Security breaches of confidential information in our technology platforms could expose the Company to possible liability and damage its reputation. Any compromise of data security could also deter customers from using the. 30. Table of Contents. Company's services. The Company relies on industry standard internet security and authentication systems to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect the Company's security systems from compromises or breaches and could result in damage to its reputation and business. The Company utilizes third party core banking software, in addition to other outsourced data processing. If third party providers encounter difficulties or if the Company has difficulty in communicating and/or transmitting with such third parties, it could significantly affect its ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions, which could significantly affect its business operations. The Company interfaces with electronic payments systems which are subject to security and operational risks. The Company utilizes file encryption in designated internal systems and networks and is subject to certain state and federal regulations regarding how the Company manages data security. The Company's enterprise governance risk and compliance function includes a framework of controls, policies and technologies to monitor and protect information from cyberattacks, mishandling, and loss, together with safeguards related to the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information. Natural disasters and disaster recovery risks could affect its operating systems, which could affect its reputation. The Company's business continuity program addresses crisis management, business impact, and data and systems recovery. Potential problems with the management of technology security and operational risks may affect regulatory compliance, which could affect operating costs and expansion plans.. The Company Faces Cybersecurity Risks, Including Denial of Service Attacks, Hacking and Identity Theft that Could Result in the Disclosure of Confidential Information or the Creation of Unauthorized Transactions, Which Could Adversely Affect the Company's Business or Reputation and Create Significant Legal and Financial Exposure.. The Company's computer systems and network infrastructure are subject to security risks and could be susceptible to cyber-attacks, such as denial of service attacks, hacking, terrorist activities or identity theft. Financial services institutions and companies engaged in data processing have reported breaches in the security of their websites or other systems, some of which have involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information, destroy data, steal financial assets, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems, often through the introduction of computer viruses or malware, cyber-attacks and other means. Denial of service attacks have been launched against a number of large financial services institutions. As a growing regional bank, the Company may be subject to similar attacks in the future. Hacking and identity theft risks could cause serious reputational harm and possible financial loss to the Company. Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and the Company may not be able to anticipate or prevent all such attacks.. The Company may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize these risks and could be held liable for any security breach or loss. Despite efforts to ensure the integrity of its systems, the Company will not be able to anticipate all security breaches of these types, and the Company may not be able to implement effective preventive measures against such security breaches. The techniques used by cyber criminals change frequently and can originate from a wide variety of sources, including outside groups such as external service providers, organized crime affiliates, terrorist organizations or hostile foreign governments. Those parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers or other users of the Company's systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to its data or that of its clients or to conduct unauthorized financial transactions.. These risks may increase in the future as the Company continues to increase its mobile-payment and other internet-based product offerings and expands its internal usage of web-based products and applications. A successful penetration or circumvention of system security could cause serious negative consequences to the Company, including significant disruption of operations, misappropriation of confidential information of the Company or that of its customers, or damage to computers or systems of the Company or those of its customers and counterparties. A security breach could result in violations of applicable privacy and other laws, financial loss to the Company or to its customers, loss of confidence in the Company's security measures, significant litigation exposure, and harm to the Company's reputation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company.. 31. Table of Contents. The Company is subject to regulatory environment changes regarding privacy and data protection and could have a material impact on our results of operations.. The growth and expansion of the company into a variety of new fields may potentially involve new regulatory issues/requirements such as the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) or the New York Department of Financial Services (NYDFS) Cybersecurity Regulation. The potential costs of compliance with or imposed by new/existing regulations and policies that are applicable to us may affect the use of our products and services and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.. The Company needs to stay current on technological changes in order to compete and meet customer demands.. The financial services market is changing rapidly with frequent introductions of new technologies which increase service and improve efficiency. Some of the Company's competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements than it currently has. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers.. Financial and Operating Counterparties Expose the Company to Risks.. The Company's use of derivative financial instruments exposes us to financial and contractual risks with counterparties. The Company maintains correspondent bank relationships, manage certain loan participations, engage in securities and funding transactions, and undergo other activities with financial counterparties that are customary to its industry. The Company also utilizes services from major vendors of technology, telecommunications, and other essential operating services. There is financial and operating risk in these relationships, which the Company seeks to manage through internal controls and procedures, but there are no assurances that the Company will not experience loss or interruption of its business as a result of unforeseen events with these providers. The Company's expanded mortgage banking operations have also exposed us to more counterparty transactions including the use of third parties to participate in the management of interest rate risk and mortgage sales and hedging. Financial and operational risks are inherent in these counterparty relationships. The Company could experience losses if there are failures in the controls or accounting, including those related to derivatives activities or if there are performance failures by any counterparties. The risk of loss is increased when interest rates change suddenly and if the intended hedging objectives are not achieved as a result of market or counterparty behaviors.. The Company May Not Be Able to Attract and Retain Skilled People.. The Company's success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract new employees, retain and motivate its existing employees, and continue to compensate employees competitively. Competition for the best people can be intense and the Company may not be able to hire or retain appropriately qualified individuals. As a result of restructuring activities, the Company could experience challenges in the retention of existing employees.. Controls and Procedures May Fail or Be Circumvented.. Management regularly reviews and updates the Company's internal controls, disclosure requirements and practices, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Liquidity. The Company's Wholesale Funding Sources May Prove Insufficient to Replace Deposits at Maturity and Support Operations and Future Growth.. The Company must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of depositors and borrowers. As a part of its liquidity management, the Company uses a number of funding sources in addition to deposit growth and cash flows from loans and investments. These sources include Federal Home Loan Bank advances, proceeds from the sale of loans, and liquidity resources at the holding company. The Company uses brokered deposits both to support ongoing growth and to provide enhanced deposit insurance to support large dollar commercial relationships. The Company's financial flexibility will be severely constrained if the Company is unable to maintain access to wholesale funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable costs. Turbulence in the capital. 32. Table of Contents. and credit markets may adversely affect liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain counterparties and customers to do business with the Company.. The Company's Ability to Service Our Debt, Pay Dividends, and Otherwise Pay Obligations as They Come Due Is Substantially Dependent on Capital Distributions from the Bank, and These Distributions Are Subject to Regulatory Limits and Other Restrictions.. A substantial source of holding company income is the receipt of dividends from the Bank, from which the Company services debt, pay obligations, and pay shareholder dividends. The availability of dividends from the Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of the Bank and other factors, that the applicable regulatory authorities could assert that payment of dividends or other types of payments are an unsafe or unsound practice. If the Bank is unable to pay dividends, the Company may not be able to service debt, pay debt obligations, or pay dividends on its common stock.. Secondary mortgage market conditions could have a material impact on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. In addition to being affected by interest rates, the secondary mortgage markets are also subject to investor demand for residential mortgage loans and increased investor yield requirements for these loans. These conditions may fluctuate or worsen in the future. As a result, a prolonged period of secondary market illiquidity may reduce the Company's loan production volumes and operating results.. Secondary markets are significantly affected by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae (collectively, the \"Agencies\") for loan purchases that meet their conforming loan requirements. These agencies could limit purchases of conforming loans due to capital constraints, a change in the criteria for conforming loans or other factors. Proposals to reform mortgage finance could affect the role of the Agencies and the market for conforming loans which comprise the majority of the Company's mortgage lending and related originations income.. Interest Rates. Market Interest Rate Conditions Could Adversely Affect Results of Operations and Financial Condition.. Net interest income is the Company's largest source of income. Changes in interest rates can affect the level of net interest income and other elements of net income. The Company's interest rate sensitivity is discussed in more detail in Item 7A of this report and is the primary market risk to its condition and operations. Changes in interest rates can also affect the demand for the Company's products and services, and the supply conditions in the U.S. financial and capital markets. Changes in the level of interest rates may negatively affect the Company's ability to originate real estate loans, the value of its assets and its ability to realize gains from the sale of assets, all of which ultimately affect earnings.. Securities Market Values. Declines in the Value of Certain Investment Securities Could Require Write-Downs, Which Would Reduce Earnings.. Declines in the value of investment securities due to market conditions and/or issuer impairment could result in losses that can reduce capital and earnings. The Company's investment in equity securities and non-investment grade debt securities present heightened credit and price risks. Under new accounting standards, equity gains and losses are recorded to current period operating results. The Company has an investment in the stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston (\"FHLBB\") which could result in write-down in the event of impairment.. Taxation. Changes in Tax Preference Items May Affect Results of Operations.. Higher tax expense due to planned or unplanned changes in tax preference items may result in lower profitability. Quarterly results may vary significantly from annual results.. Changes in Federal Tax Policy May Affect Results of Operations.. Changes in federal tax policy may result in unexpected impacts to markets and customer behaviors. New tax regulations may result in changes to deductions and tax preferences, which could require a further write-down of the. 33. Table of Contents. deferred tax asset. Changes could affect the Company's financial results and also could affect the profitability of tax preferred investments.. Regulatory. Legislative and Regulatory Initiatives May Affect Business Activities and Increase Operating Costs.. New federal or state laws and regulations could affect lending, funding practices, capital, and liquidity standards. New laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes may also increase compliance costs and affect business and operations. Moreover, the FDIC sets the cost of FDIC insurance premiums, which can affect profitability.. Regulatory capital requirements and their impact on the Company may change. It may need to raise additional capital in the future to support operations and continued growth. The Company's ability to raise capital, if needed, will depend on its condition and performance, and on market conditions. If additional capital is not available when needed, it could affect operations and the execution of the strategic plan, which includes further expanding operations through internal growth and acquisitions.. New laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes, along with negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, may significantly affect the markets in which the Company does business, the markets for and value of its loans and investments, and ongoing operations, costs and profitability. For more information, see \"Regulation and Supervision\" in Item 1 of this report.. In 2017, the Company crossed the $10 billion asset threshold established by the Dodd-Frank act. The Company and the Bank are now subject to closer supervision by their primary regulators and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. The Company and the Bank are subject to new capital stress testing requirements which require significant new resources and infrastructure. If the Company's compliance with the enhanced supervision and requirements is insufficient, there can be significant negative consequences for its operations, profitability, and ability to further pursue its strategic growth plan.. Provisions of the Company's Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, and Delaware Law, as Well as State and Federal Banking Regulations, Could Delay or Prevent a Takeover of Us by a Third Party.. Provisions in the Company's certificate of incorporation and bylaws, the corporate law of the State of Delaware, and state and federal regulations could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit stockholders, or otherwise adversely affect the price of its common stock. These provisions include: limitations on voting rights of beneficial owners of more than 10 percent of common stock; supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations; the election of directors to terms of one year; and advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the Company's Board of Directors and for proposing matters that stockholders may act on at stockholder meetings. In addition, the Company is subject to Delaware laws, including one that prohibits engaging in a business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years from the date the person became an interested stockholder unless certain conditions are met. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for the Company's common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, its common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by the Board.. Significant Accounting Estimates May Not Be Realized in Accordance with Recorded Estimates.. Unexpected Changes May Adversely Affect Condition or Performance.. The Company's significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. The SEC defines \"critical accounting policies\" as those that require application of management's most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in future periods. The Company's critical accounting policies are further discussed in Item 7 of this report. If actual events and results do not conform to critical estimates, there could be a material impact on financial condition, operating performance, and execution of the strategic plan.. 34. Table of Contents. Mergers and Acquisitions. Acquisitions may disrupt the Company's business and dilute stockholder value.. The Company completed its acquisition of Commerce Bancshares Corp. in October 2017. The Company regularly evaluates merger and acquisition opportunities with other financial institutions and financial services companies. Future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt, or equity securities may occur from time to time. The Company seeks acquisition partners that offer either significant market presence or the potential to expand its market footprint and improve profitability through economies of scale or expanded services.. Acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches may have an adverse effect on the Company's financial results and may involve various other risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things:. • difficulty in estimating the value of the target company. • payment of a premium over book and market values that may dilute the Company's tangible book value and earnings per share in the short and long term;. • exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities, or asset quality problems, of the target company;. • unexpected regulatory responses to merger related applications. • larger than anticipated merger-related expenses;. • difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company, and retaining key employees and customers;. • inability to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits; and. • potential diversion of Company management's time and attention.. If the Company is unable to successfully integrate an acquired company, the anticipated benefits may not be realized fully or may take longer to realize than expected. A significant decline in asset valuations or cash flows may also prevent the attainment of targeted results. Additional discussion about the risk of acquisitions is included above in the discussion of Operating Risk.. Trading of the Company's Common Stock. The Trading History of The Company's Common Stock Is Characterized By Low Trading Volume. The Value of Shareholder Investments May be Subject To Sudden Decreases Due To the Volatility of the Price of the Common Stock.. The level of interest and trading in the Company's stock depends on many factors beyond the Company's control. The market price of the Company's common stock may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including, but not limited to, the factors discussed in other risk factors and the following: actual or anticipated fluctuations in operating results; changes in interest rates; changes in the legal or regulatory environment; press releases, announcements or publicity relating to the Company or its competitors or relating to trends in its industry; changes in expectations as to future financial performance, including financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts and investors; future sales of its common stock; changes in economic conditions in the marketplace, general conditions in the U.S. economy, financial markets or the banking industry; and other developments. These factors may adversely affect the trading price of the Company's common stock, regardless of actual operating performance, and could prevent stockholders from selling their common stock at a desirable price.. In the past, stockholders have brought securities class action litigation against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. The Company could be the target of similar litigation in the future, which could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources.. 35. Table of Contents"
