[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The statements in this section describe the material risks to our business and should be considered carefully.  In addition, these statements constitute cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.. Our disclosure and analysis in this Form 10-K and in our 2017 Annual Report to Shareholders contain forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results based on management's plans and assumptions.  From time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public as well as oral forward-looking statements.  Such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events.  They do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.  Such statements are commonly identified by using words such as \"anticipate,\" \"estimate,\" \"expect,\" \"objective,\" \"goal,\" \"project,\" \"intend,\" \"plan,\" \"believe,\" \"will,\" \"should,\" \"may,\" \"target,\" \"forecast,\" \"guidance,\" \"outlook,\" and similar expressions in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance.  In particular, forward-looking statements include statements relating to future actions, future performance, or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, and financial results.. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized.  Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties, and potentially inaccurate assumptions.  If known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results or those anticipated, estimated, or projected results set forth in the forward-looking statements.  You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements.. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date thereof.  We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.  You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K filed with the SEC.. The following cautionary discussion of material risks, uncertainties, and assumptions relevant to our businesses describes factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results.  Additional risks not presently known to us or that we presently believe to be immaterial also may adversely impact us.  Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity.  Consequently, all of the forward-looking statements are qualified by these cautionary statements, and there can be no assurance that the results or developments we anticipate will be realized or that they will have the expected effects on our business or operations.  We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  There can be no assurances that we have correctly and completely identified, assessed, and accounted for all factors that do or may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity, as it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors.  Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties.. Our ability to achieve the results contemplated by forward-looking statements is subject to a number of factors, any one, or a combination, of which could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.  These factors may include, but are not limited to:. If we are unable to successfully execute our operating strategies, our operating performance could be significantly impacted.. There is a risk that we will be unable to meet or exceed our operating performance targets and goals in the future if our strategies and initiatives are unsuccessful.  Our ability to execute the business activities associated with our operating and strategic plans, particularly as we focus on becoming a community retailer, and effectively adapt our plans to the changing marketplace, could impact our ability to meet our operating performance targets.  See the accompanying MD&A in this Form 10-K for additional information concerning our operating strategy.. 7. Table of Contents. If we are unable to compete effectively in the highly competitive discount retail industry, our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.. The discount retail industry, which includes both traditional brick and mortar stores and online marketplaces, is highly competitive.  As discussed in Item 1 of this Form 10-K, we compete for customers, products, employees, real estate, and other aspects of our business with a number of other companies.  Some of our competitors have broader distribution (e.g., more stores and/or a more established online presence), and/or greater financial, marketing, and other resources than us.  It is possible that increased competition, significant discounting, or improved performance by our competitors may reduce our market share, gross margin, and operating margin, and may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.. If we are unable to compete effectively in today's omnichannel retail marketplace, our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.. With the saturation of mobile computing devices, competition from other retailers in the online retail marketplace is very high and growing.  Certain of our competitors, and a number of pure online retailers, have established online operations against which we compete for customers and products.  It is possible that the competition in the online retail space may reduce our market share, gross margin, and operating margin, and may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations in other ways.  In 2016, we expanded our operations to include an e-commerce platform to enhance our omnichannel experience.  Operating an e-commerce platform is a complex undertaking and there is no guarantee that the resources we have applied to this effort will result in increased revenues or improved operating performance.  If our online retailing initiatives do not meet our customers' expectations, the initiatives may reduce our customers' desire to purchase goods from us both online and at our brick and mortar stores and may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our inability to properly manage our inventory levels and offer merchandise that meets changing customer demands may materially impact our business and financial performance.. We must maintain sufficient inventory levels to successfully operate our business.  However, we also must seek to avoid accumulating excess inventory to maintain appropriate in-stock levels to customer demands.  We obtain approximately one quarter of our merchandise directly from vendors outside of the U.S.  These foreign vendors often require lengthy advance notice of our requirements to be able to supply products in the quantities that we request.  This usually requires us to order merchandise and enter into purchase order contracts for the purchase of such merchandise well in advance of the time these products are offered for sale.  As a result, we may experience difficulty in responding to a changing retail environment, which makes us vulnerable to changes in price and in consumer preferences.  In addition, we attempt to maximize our operating profit and operating efficiency by delivering proper quantities of merchandise to our stores in a timely manner.  If we do not accurately anticipate future demand for a particular product or the time it will take to replenish inventory levels, our inventory levels may not be appropriate and our results of operations may be negatively impacted.. We rely on manufacturers located in foreign countries for significant amounts of merchandise and a significant amount of our domestically-purchased merchandise is manufactured abroad.  Our business may be materially adversely affected by risks associated with international trade.. Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in driving higher operating profit.  During 2017, we purchased approximately 23% of our products directly from overseas vendors, including 19% from vendors located in China, and a significant amount of our domestically-purchased merchandise is manufactured abroad.  Our ability to identify qualified vendors and to access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to goods sourced outside of the U.S.  Global sourcing and foreign trade involve numerous factors and uncertainties beyond our control including increased shipping costs, increased import duties, more restrictive quotas, loss of most favored nation trading status, currency and exchange rate fluctuations, work stoppages, transportation delays, economic uncertainties such as inflation, foreign government regulations, political unrest, natural disasters, war, terrorism, trade restrictions (including retaliation by the U.S. against foreign practices or by foreign countries against U.S. practices), political instability, the financial stability of vendors, merchandise quality issues, and tariffs.  U.S policy on trade restrictions is ever-changing and may result in new laws, regulations or treaties that increase the costs of importing goods and/or limit the scope of available foreign vendors.  These and other issues affecting our international vendors could materially adversely affect our business and financial performance.. 8. Table of Contents. Disruption to our distribution network, the capacity of our distribution centers, and our timely receipt of merchandise inventory could adversely affect our operating performance.. We rely on our ability to replenish depleted merchandise inventory through deliveries to our distribution centers and from the distribution centers to our stores by various means of transportation, including shipments by sea, rail and truck carriers.  A decrease in the capacity of carriers (e.g., trans-Pacific freight carrier bankruptcies) and/or labor strikes, disruptions or shortages in the transportation industry could negatively affect our distribution network, our timely receipt of merchandise and transportation costs.  In addition, long-term disruptions to the U.S. and international transportation infrastructure from wars, political unrest, terrorism, natural disasters, governmental budget constraints and other significant events that lead to delays or interruptions of service could adversely affect our business.  Also, a fire, earthquake, or other disaster at one of our distribution centers could disrupt our timely receipt, processing and shipment of merchandise to our stores which could adversely affect our business.  Additionally, as we seek to expand our operation through the implementation of our online retail capabilities, we may face increased or unexpected demands on distribution center operations, as well as new demands on our distribution network.. If we are unable to secure customer, employee, vendor and company data, our systems could be compromised, our reputation could be damaged, and we could be subject to penalties or lawsuits.. In the normal course of business, we process and collect relevant data about our customers, employees and vendors.  During 2016, our normal activities expanded to include conducting sales transactions through an online channel.  The protection of our customer, employee, vendor and company data is critical to us.  We have implemented procedures, processes and technologies designed to safeguard our customers' debit and credit card information and other private data, our employees' and vendors' private data, and our records and intellectual property.  We also utilize third-party service providers in connection with certain technology related activities, including credit card processing, website hosting, data encryption and software support.  We require these providers to take appropriate measures to secure such data and information and assess their ability to do so.. Despite our procedures, technologies and other information security measures, we cannot be certain that our information technology systems or the information technology systems of our third-party service providers are or will be able to prevent, contain or detect all cyberattacks, cyberterrorism, or security breaches.  As evidenced by other retailers who have suffered serious security breaches, we may be vulnerable to data security breaches and data loss, including cyberattacks.  A material breach of our security measures or our third-party service providers' security measures, the misuse of our customer, employee, vendor and company data or information or our failure to comply with applicable privacy and information security laws and regulations could result in the exposure of sensitive data or information, attract a substantial amount of negative media attention, damage our customer or employee relationships and our reputation and brand, distract the attention of management from their other responsibilities, subject us to government enforcement actions, private litigation, penalties and costly response measures, and result in lost sales and a reduction in the market value of our common shares.  While we have insurance, in the event we experience a material data or information security breach, our insurance may not be sufficient to cover the impact to our business, or insurance proceeds may not be paid timely.. In addition, the regulatory environment surrounding data and information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, as new and revised requirements are frequently imposed across our business.  Compliance with more demanding privacy and information security laws and standards may result in significant expense due to increased investment in technology and the development of new operational processes.. If we are unable to maintain or upgrade our computer systems or if we are unable to convert to alternate systems in an efficient and timely manner, our operations may be disrupted or become less efficient.. We depend on a variety of information technology and computer systems for the efficient functioning of our business.  We rely on certain hardware, telecommunications and software vendors to maintain and periodically upgrade many of these systems so that we can continue to support our business.  Various components of our information technology and computer systems, including hardware, networks, and software, are licensed to us by third party vendors.  We rely extensively on our information technology and computer systems to process transactions, summarize results, and manage our business.  Our information technology and computer systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, cyberattacks or other security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornados, hurricanes, acts of war or terrorism, and usage errors by our employees or our contractors.  In recent years, we have begun using hosted solutions for certain of our information technology and computer systems, which are more exposed to telecommunication failures.. 9. Table of Contents. If our information technology or computer systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, and we may suffer loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our operations as a result.  Any material interruption experienced by our information technology or computer systems could negatively affect our business and results of operations.  Costs and potential interruptions associated with the implementation of new or upgraded systems and technology or with maintenance or adequate support of our existing systems could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our business.. Declines in general economic conditions, disposable income levels, and other conditions, such as unseasonable weather, could lead to reduced consumer demand for our merchandise, thereby materially affecting our revenues and gross margin.. Our results of operations can be directly impacted by the health of the U.S. economy.  Our business and financial performance may be adversely impacted by current and future economic conditions, including factors that may restrict or otherwise negatively impact consumer financing, disposable income levels, unemployment levels, energy costs, interest rates, recession, inflation, tax reform, natural disasters or terrorist activities and other matters that influence consumer spending.  Specifically, our Soft Home, Hard Home, Furniture and Seasonal merchandise categories may be threatened when disposable income levels are negatively impacted by economic conditions.  Additionally, the net sales of cyclical product offerings in our Seasonal category may be threatened when we experience extended periods of unseasonable weather.  Inclement weather can also negatively impact our Furniture category, as many customers transport the product home personally.  In particular, the economic conditions and weather patterns of four states (California, Texas, Florida, and Ohio) are important as approximately 33% of our current stores operate and 34% of our 2017 net sales occurred in these states.. Changes in federal or state legislation and regulations, including the effects of legislation and regulations on product safety and hazardous materials, could increase our cost of doing business and adversely affect our operating performance.. We are exposed to the risk that new federal or state legislation, including new product safety and hazardous material laws and regulations, may negatively impact our operations and adversely affect our operating performance.  Changes in product safety legislation or regulations may lead to product recalls and the disposal or write-off of merchandise, as well as fines or penalties and reputational damage.  If our merchandise and food products do not meet applicable governmental safety standards or our customers' expectations regarding quality or safety, we could experience lost sales, increased costs and be exposed to legal and reputational risk.. In addition, if we discard or dispose of our merchandise, particularly that which is non-salable, in a fashion that is inconsistent with jurisdictional standards, we could expose ourselves to certain fines and litigation costs related to hazardous material regulations.  Our inability to comply on a timely basis with regulatory requirements, execute product recalls in a timely manner, or consistently implement waste management standards, could result in fines or penalties which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.  In addition, negative customer perceptions regarding the safety of the products we sell could cause us to lose market share to our competitors.  If this occurs, it may be difficult for us to regain lost sales.. We are subject to periodic litigation and regulatory proceedings, including Fair Labor Standards Act, state wage and hour, and shareholder class action lawsuits, which may adversely affect our business and financial performance.. From time to time, we are involved in lawsuits and regulatory actions, including various collective, class action or shareholder derivative lawsuits that are brought against us for alleged violations of the Fair Labor Standards Act, state wage and hour laws, sales tax and consumer protection laws, False Claims Act, federal securities laws and environmental and hazardous waste regulations.  Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, we may not be able to accurately determine the impact on us of any future adverse outcome of such proceedings.  The ultimate resolution of these matters could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity.  In addition, regardless of the outcome, these proceedings could result in substantial cost to us and may require us to devote substantial attention and resources to defend ourselves.  For a description of certain current legal proceedings, see note 10 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.. 10. Table of Contents. Our current insurance program may expose us to unexpected costs and negatively affect our financial performance.. Our insurance coverage is subject to deductibles, self-insured retentions, limits of liability and similar provisions that we believe are prudent based on our overall operations.  We may incur certain types of losses that we cannot insure or which we believe are not economically reasonable to insure, such as losses due to acts of war, employee and certain other crime, and some natural disasters.  If we incur these losses and they are material, our business could suffer.  Certain material events may result in sizable losses for the insurance industry and adversely impact the availability of adequate insurance coverage or result in excessive premium increases.  To offset negative cost trends in the insurance market, we may elect to self-insure, accept higher deductibles or reduce the amount of coverage in response to these market changes.  In addition, we self-insure a significant portion of expected losses under our workers' compensation, general liability, including automobile, and group health insurance programs.  Unanticipated changes in any applicable actuarial assumptions and management estimates underlying our recorded liabilities for these self-insured losses, including potential increases in medical and indemnity costs, could result in significantly different expenses than expected under these programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  Although we continue to maintain property insurance for catastrophic events, we are self-insured for losses up to the amount of our deductibles.  If we experience a greater number of self-insured losses than we anticipate, our financial performance could be adversely affected.. If we are unable to attract, train, and retain highly qualified associates while also controlling our labor costs, our financial performance may be negatively affected.. Our customers expect a positive shopping experience, which is driven by a high level of customer service from our associates and a quality presentation of our merchandise.  To grow our operations and meet the needs and expectations of our customers, we must attract, train, and retain a large number of highly qualified associates, while at the same time control labor costs.  We compete with other retail businesses for many of our associates in hourly and part-time positions.  These positions have historically had high turnover rates, which can lead to increased training and retention costs.  In addition, our ability to control labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including prevailing wage rates, the impact of legislation or regulations governing labor relations or benefits, and health insurance costs.. The loss of key personnel may have a material impact on our future results of operations.. We believe that we benefit substantially from the leadership and experience of our senior executives.  The loss of services of these individuals could have a material adverse impact on our business.  Competition for key personnel in the retail industry is intense, and our future success will depend on our ability to recruit, train, and retain our senior executives and other qualified personnel.. If we are unable to retain existing and secure suitable new store locations under favorable lease terms, our financial performance may be negatively affected.. We lease almost all of our stores, and a significant number of these leases expire or are up for renewal each year, as noted below in \"Item 2. Properties\" and in MD&A in this Form 10-K.  Our strategy to improve our financial performance includes sales growth while managing the occupancy cost of each of our stores.  The primary component of our sales growth strategy revolves around increasing our comparable store sales, which will require renewing many leases each year.  Additional components of our sales growth strategy are to relocate certain stores to a new location within an existing market and to open new store locations, either as an expansion in an existing market or as an entrance into a new market.  If the commercial real estate market does not allow us to negotiate favorable lease renewals and new store leases, our financial position, results of operations, and liquidity may be negatively affected.. Our inability to comply with the terms of the 2011 Credit Agreement may have a material adverse effect on our capital resources, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity.. We have the ability to borrow funds under the 2011 Credit Agreement, and we utilize this ability at various times depending on operating or other cash flow requirements.  The 2011 Credit Agreement contains financial and other covenants, including, but not limited to, limitations on indebtedness, liens, and investments, as well as the maintenance of a leverage ratio and a fixed charge coverage ratio.  Additionally, we are subject cross-default provisions within the synthetic lease agreement (the \"Synthetic Lease\") that we entered into associated with our new distribution center in California.  A violation of any of these covenants may permit the lenders to restrict our ability to further access loans and letters of credit and may require the immediate repayment of any outstanding loans.  Our failure to comply with these covenants may have a material adverse effect on our capital resources, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity.. 11. Table of Contents. A significant decline in our operating profit and taxable income may impair our ability to realize the value of our long-lived assets and deferred tax assets.. We are required by accounting rules to periodically assess our property and equipment and deferred tax assets for impairment and recognize an impairment loss or valuation charge, if necessary.  In performing these assessments, we use our historical financial performance to determine whether we have potential impairments or valuation concerns and as evidence to support our assumptions about future financial performance.  A significant decline in our financial performance could negatively affect the results of our assessments of the recoverability of our property and equipment and our deferred tax assets and trigger the impairment of these assets.  Impairment or valuation charges taken against property and equipment and deferred tax assets could be material and could have a material adverse impact on our capital resources, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity (see the discussion under the caption \"Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates\" in the accompanying MD&A in this Form 10-K for additional information regarding our accounting policies for long-lived assets and income taxes).. Changes in accounting guidance could significantly affect our results of operations and the presentation of those results.. Changes in accounting standards, including new interpretations and applications of accounting standards, may have adverse effects on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity.  The Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") has issued and/or adopted new guidance that proposes numerous significant changes to current accounting standards.  This new guidance could significantly change the presentation of financial information and our results of operations.  Additionally, the new guidance may require us to make systems and other changes that could increase our operating costs.  Specifically, implementing future accounting guidance related to leases is requiring us to make significant changes to our lease management system systems.. We also may be subject to a number of other factors which may, individually or in the aggregate, materially adversely affect our business. These factors include, but are not limited to:. • Changes in governmental laws and regulations, including matters related to taxation;. • A downgrade in our credit rating could negatively affect our ability to access capital or could increase our borrowing costs;. • Events or circumstances could occur which could create bad publicity for us or for types of merchandise offered in our stores which may negatively impact our business results including our sales;. • Fluctuating commodity prices, including but not limited to diesel fuel and other fuels used by utilities to generate power, may affect our gross profit and operating profit margins;. • Infringement of our intellectual property, including the Big Lots trademarks, could dilute their value; and. • Other risks described from time to time in our filings with the SEC."
