[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Before purchasing our common stock, you should carefully consider the following risk factors as well as all other information contained in this Report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose some or all of your investment.. Risks Relating to Our Business. We have incurred significant losses since inception, have relatively limited working capital and have only generated minimal revenues from actual products sales. As such, you cannot rely upon our historical operating performance to make an investment decision regarding our company.. From our inception in January 1997 and through December 31, 2017, we have recorded significant losses. Our accumulated deficit at December 31, 2017 was approximately $305.1 million. As of December 31, 2017, we had working capital of approximately $13.6 million, but until our product revenue grows more substantially, we will continue to use our working capital to maintain our operations. Our ability to generate revenue and achieve profitability depends upon our ability, alone or with others, to effectively market and sell our products, secure and maintain payer access, maintain required regulatory approvals, manufacture our products to meet demand and complete the development of our product candidates and product concepts. We may be unable to achieve any or all of these goals.. Although we have generated licensing-related and other revenue to date, we have only recently begun to generate revenue from the commercial sales of our approved products  -  BELBUCA®, BUNAVAIL® and ONSOLIS®. In the case of BELBUCA®, our approval has generated milestone revenue from our prior commercial partner Endo. However, in January 2017, we obtained the commercialization rights back to BELBUCA® and are utilizing our internal sales force to sell our product. In the case of BUNAVAIL®, sales have been challenging since we commenced the commercial launch of the product in November 2014 and are subject to the risks of launching a new product. There is a risk that we will be unable to generate sustained and predictable revenues from product sales. In the case of ONSOLIS®, sales have been adversely affected by: (i) the lack of a uniform REMS program at the time of the launch of ONSOLIS®, and (ii) certain post-FDA approval appearance issues associated with ONSOLIS® which have led to the temporary suspension of manufacturing and marketing of ONSOLIS® in the US and Canada.. Since our inception, we have engaged primarily in research and development, licensing technology, seeking grants, raising capital and recruiting scientific and management personnel. Since 2005, we have also focused on clinical and commercialization activities, originally relating to ONSOLIS® and more recently with BELBUCA®, BUNAVAIL® and Buprenorphine Sustained Release injection and formerly Clonidine Topical Gel. This relatively limited operating history may not be adequate to enable you to fully assess our ability to develop and commercialize our technologies and proposed formulations or products, obtain FDA approval and achieve market acceptance of our proposed formulations or products and respond to competition. We may be unable to fully develop, obtain regulatory approval for, commercialize, manufacture, market, sell and derive material revenues from our product candidates or product concepts in the timeframes we project, if at all, and our inability to do so would materially and adversely impact our viability as a company.. There are risks and we have experienced challenges associated with our launch of BUNAVAIL®. We thus cannot accurately predict the volume or timing of any future sales of BUNAVAIL®, making the timing of any revenues therefrom difficult to predict.. In 2014, we commenced the commercial launch of BUNAVAIL®, which represented the commencement of the first self-commercialization effort for our company. As such, our ability to establish and increase sales of BUNAVAIL® is important to us, both for the revenue it may generate as well as to demonstrate our capabilities as an integrated specialty pharmaceutical company as opposed to a research and development organization. The commercial launch of any product is subject to significant risks, and particularly so for us given the size and relative inexperience of our company with commercial operations. In addition, we face lengthy customer evaluation and formulary and managed care approval processes associated with the launch of BUNAVAIL®. Consequently, we have and may continue to incur substantial expenses and devote significant management effort and expense in developing customer trial and adoption of BUNAVAIL® which may have an adverse impact on our ability to generate revenue from sales of this product. We must obtain approval for commercial insurance and government reimbursement, and receive and maintain favorable formulary placement, in order to generate sales of BUNAVAIL®, which approval is subject to risk, potential delays and contract terms, and which may not actually occur or may occur with less favorable terms. The sales of BUNAVAIL® are also. 29. Table of Contents. dependent on the effectiveness of our selling and promotional efforts as well as influenced by competitive activity and our ability to effectively compete with companies with greater resources, new product approvals, pricing pressure, litigation, regulatory influences, and generic entrants. We have to some extent experienced all of the foregoing in connection with our launch of BUNAVAIL®. As such, we cannot accurately predict the volume or timing of any future sales of BUNAVAIL®, and our inability to commercialize this product would likely have an adverse effect on our results of operations and public stock price.. We have limited experience as a company in self-commercializing pharmaceutical products, which heightens the risks related to our self-commercialization of BELBUCA® and BUNAVAIL®.. Prior to the launch of BUNAVAIL®, we had only partnered our products with larger pharmaceutical companies, who have taken primary responsibility for development and commercialization activities for such products. We are presently self-commercializing BUNAVAIL® and BELBUCA®. As a company, prior to our commercialization of BELBUCA® and BUNAVAIL®, we had never been primarily responsible for manufacturing, supply chain, sales and marketing efforts for one of our products, and therefore our efforts with BELBUCA® and BUNAVAIL® are our initial efforts in this regard. Given this relatively limited experience, there is a risk that we may be unable to adequately execute one or more elements of our commercial plans for BELBUCA® and BUNAVAIL®. If this were to occur, we may not achieve anticipated revenues from BELBUCA® or BUNAVAIL®, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, reputation and stock price.. BUNAVAIL® was the first product that we had elected to commercialize and we began to commercialize BELBUCA® in January 2017. If we are unable to adequately develop, implement, or manage our sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, either on our own or through third parties who perform these functions, our commercialization efforts for BELBUCA® or BUNAVAIL® or any future product we may commercialize would not produce the desired results, which would hurt our revenues and results of operations.. Prior to our decision to commercialize BUNAVAIL®, we had relied on third parties to manage sales and marketing efforts for us, including Meda for ONSOLIS® and Endo for BELBUCA® until January 2017. We therefore have limited experience as a company in commercializing a product, and our sales, marketing and distribution capabilities are new. As such, we may not achieve success in marketing and promoting BELBUCA® and BUNAVAIL®, or any other products we develop or acquire in the future or products we may commercialize through the exercise of co-promotion rights. Specifically, to optimize the commercial potential of BELBUCA® and BUNAVAIL®, we must execute upon our commercialization plan effectively and efficiently. In addition, we must continually assess and modify our commercialization plan to adapt to the promotional response. Further, we must continue to focus and refine our marketing campaign to ensure a clear and understandable physician-patient dialogue around BELBUCA® and BUNAVAIL® as an appropriate therapy. In addition, we must provide our sales force with the highest quality training, support, guidance and oversight for them to effectively promote BELBUCA® and BUNAVAIL®. If we fail to perform these commercial functions in the highest quality manner, BELBUCA® and BUNAVAIL® will not achieve its maximum commercial potential or any level of success at all. In addition, sales and marketing efforts could be negatively impacted by the delay or failure to obtain additional supportive clinical trial data for our products. The deterioration or loss of our sales force would materially and adversely impact our ability to generate sales revenue, which would hurt our results of operations. Finally, we are competing and expect to compete with other companies that currently have extensive and well-funded marketing and sales operations, and our marketing and sales efforts may be unable to compete against these other companies, which would also hurt our results of operations.. If our competitors are successful in obtaining approval for Abbreviated New Drug Applications for products that have the same active ingredients as BELBUCA® or BUNAVAIL®, sales of BELBUCA® or BUNAVAIL® may be adversely affected.. Our competitors may submit for approval certain Abbreviated New Drug Applications (\"ANDAs\") which provide for the marketing of a drug product that has the same active ingredients in the same strengths and dosage form as a drug product already listed with the FDA, and which has been shown to be bioequivalent to such FDA-listed drug. Drugs approved in this way are commonly referred to as generic versions of a listed drug and can often be substituted by pharmacists under prescriptions written for an original listed drug. Any applicant filing an ANDA is required to certify to the FDA that the new product subject to the ANDA will not infringe an already approved product's listed patents or that such patents are invalid (otherwise known as a Paragraph IV Certification).. In February 2016, we announced that a generic competitor (Teva) had filed a Paragraph IV Certification challenging certain of our BUNAVAIL®-related patents and we received notices regarding Paragraph IV certifications from Teva in November and December 2016, seeking to find invalid two Orange Book listed patents relating specifically to BELBUCA®. The filing of this certification required us to initiate costly litigation against Teva. In addition, a number of our competitor companies have filed Paragraph IV Certifications challenging the patent for Suboxone® film, the market leader in the field in which we are seeking to generate sales of BUNAVAIL®. To the extent that any company is successful in challenging the validity of certain patents covering. 30. Table of Contents. BUNAVAIL® or Suboxone® film under a Paragraph IV Certification, it could result in FDA approval of a drug that is lower in price to BUNAVAIL® or Suboxone® film. Such a new drug could make it more difficult for BUNAVAIL® to gain any significant market share in an increasingly generic marketplace, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, reputation and stock price.. In October 2017, we announced that we had entered into a settlement agreement with Teva that resolved our BUNAVAIL® patent litigation against Teva pending in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware. As part of the Settlement Agreement, which is subject to review by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and the U.S. Department of Justice, we entered into a non-exclusive license agreement with Teva that permits Teva to first begin selling its generic version of BUNAVAIL® in the U.S. on July 23, 2028 or earlier under certain circumstances. Other terms of the agreement are confidential.. In February 2018, we announced that we had entered into a Settlement Agreement with Teva that resolves our previously reported BELBUCA®, patent litigation against Teva pending in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. As part of the settlement agreement, which is subject to review by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and the U.S. Department of Justice, we entered into a non-exclusive license agreement with Teva that permits Teva to first begin selling its generic version of BELBUCA® in the U.S. on January 23, 2027 or earlier under certain circumstances. Other terms of the agreement are confidential.. As such, we have been and may continue to be subject to ANDA-related litigation, which is costly and distracting and has the potential to impair the long-term value of our products.. Until we can generate recurring and predictable revenues for commercial operations, we will likely need to raise additional capital from time to time to continue our operations or expand our business, and our failure to do so would significantly impair our ability to fund our operations, develop our technologies and product candidates, attract commercial partners, retain key personnel or promote our products.. Historically, our operations have been funded almost entirely by external financing and not from commercial revenues. Such financing has historically come primarily from license and royalty fees, traditional secured loans, the sale of common and preferred stock and convertible debt to third parties, related party loans and, to a lesser degree, from grants. At December 31, 2017, we had cash of approximately $21.2 million. Since revenue from BELBUCA® and BUNAVAIL® sales and royalty payments from MEDA and TTY have been and may continue to be unpredictable, there is a material risk that we will be unable to fund our company from our own generated revenues.. As such, and given our anticipated cash usage and lack of significant revenues, we will likely need to raise additional capital in the future to fund our anticipated operating expenses and progress our business plans. In fact, we may require significant additional capital to further our planned activities. If additional financing is not available when required or is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund our operations and planned growth, develop or enhance our technologies, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive market pressures. Any negative impact on our operations may make raising additional capital more difficult or impossible and may also result in a lower price for our shares.. We may have difficulty raising any needed additional capital.. We may have difficulty raising needed capital in the future as a result of, among other factors, our lack of material revenues from sales, as well as the inherent business risks associated with our company and present and future market conditions. Our business currently only generates a limited amount of revenue from product sales and milestone revenues, and such current sources of revenue will likely not be sufficient to meet our present and short-term capital requirements. Therefore, given that we plan to continue to expend substantial funds on commercialization activities (including those relating to BELBUCA® and BUNAVAIL®) as well as potentially on other strategic initiatives, there is a risk that we will require additional capital to fund these activities. If adequate funds are unavailable, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research, development or commercialization programs, product launches or marketing efforts, any of which may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our long-term capital requirements are subject to numerous risks.. Our long-term capital requirements are expected to depend on many factors, including, among others:. <U+0095>   the number of potential products we have in development;. 31. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   progress and cost of our research and development programs;. <U+0095>   progress with non-clinical studies and clinical trials;. <U+0095>   time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory (including FDA) clearance and addressing regulatory and other issues that may arise post-approval (such as we have experienced with ONSOLIS® and, to a lesser extent, with BELBUCA® and BUNAVAIL®);. <U+0095>   costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing (through litigation or other means) our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property;. <U+0095>   costs of developing sales, marketing and distribution channels and our ability to sell our products;. <U+0095>   costs involved in establishing manufacturing capabilities for commercial quantities of our products;. <U+0095>   costs we may incur in acquiring new technologies or products;. <U+0095>   competing technological and market developments;. <U+0095>   market acceptance of our products;. <U+0095>   costs for recruiting and retaining employees and consultants;. <U+0095>   costs for training physicians; and. <U+0095>   legal, accounting, insurance and other professional and business-related costs.. We may consume available resources more rapidly than currently anticipated, resulting in the need for additional funding sooner than anticipated. We may seek to raise any necessary additional funds through equity or debt financings, collaborative arrangements with corporate partners or other sources, which may have a material effect on our current or future business prospects.. Our additional financing requirements could result in dilution to existing stockholders.. The additional financings which we have undertaken and which we will likely in the future require, have and may be obtained through one or more transactions that have diluted or will dilute (either economically or in percentage terms) the ownership interests of our stockholders. Further, we may not be able to secure such additional financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We have the authority to issue additional shares of common stock and preferred stock, as well as additional classes or series of ownership interests or debt obligations which may be convertible into any one or more classes or series of ownership interests. We are authorized to issue 75 million shares of common stock and 5 million shares of preferred stock. Such securities may be issued without the approval or other consent of our stockholders.. Our term loan agreement with CRG Servicing LLC (or CRG) and other lenders party thereto contains restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. We may be required to make a prepayment or repay the outstanding indebtedness earlier than we expect under our Credit Agreement if a prepayment event or an event of default occurs, including a material adverse change with respect to us, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business.. In February 2017, we entered into a term loan agreement with CRG. Pursuant to the loan agreement, we borrowed $45.0 million from the lenders as of the closing date and may be eligible to borrow up to an additional $30.0 million in two tranches of $15.0 million each contingent upon achievement of certain minimum net revenue and minimum market capitalization conditions. In December 2017, we were eligible and elected to receive the second draw of the $15.0 million. We utilized approximately $29.4 million of the initial loan proceeds to repay all the amounts owed by us under our existing amended and restated loan and security agreement, dated May 29, 2015, with MidCap Financial Trust (or MidCap).. Our agreement with CRG contains various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our ability to, among other things:. <U+0095>   incur additional indebtedness;. <U+0095>   enter into a merger, consolidation or certain changing of control events without complying with the terms of the loan agreement;. <U+0095>   change the nature of our business;. <U+0095>   change our organizational structure or type;. 32. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   amend, modify or waive any of our material agreements or organizational documents;. <U+0095>   grant certain types of liens on our assets;. <U+0095>   make certain investments;. <U+0095>   pay cash dividends;. <U+0095>   enter into material transactions with affiliates; and. The restrictive covenants of the term loan agreement could cause us to be unable to pursue business opportunities that we or our stockholders may consider beneficial. A breach of any of these covenants could result in an event of default under the term loan agreement. An event of default will also occur if, among other things, a material adverse change in our business, operations or condition occurs, or a material impairment of the prospect of our repayment of any portion of the amounts we owe under the term loan agreement occurs. In the case of a continuing event of default under the agreement, CRG could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit, proceed against the collateral in which we granted CRG a security interest under the term loan agreement and related agreements, or otherwise exercise the rights of a secured creditor. Amounts outstanding under the term loan agreement are secured by all of our existing and future assets (excluding certain intellectual property).. We may not have enough available cash or be able to raise additional funds on satisfactory terms, if at all, through equity or debt financings to make any required prepayment or repay such indebtedness at the time any such prepayment event or event of default occurs. In such an event, we may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our product development or commercialization efforts or grant to others rights to develop and market product candidates that we would otherwise prefer to develop and market ourselves. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected as a result.. We may not qualify for additional lending under our loan agreement with CRG. If we do not have access to such funds, our cash position could become materially impaired.. Under our loan agreement with CRG, we may qualify for a remaining tranche of $15 million only if we are able to achieve a certain minimum net revenue and market capitalization threshold. There is a risk that we may not achieve one or more of these thresholds for reasons both within and outside of our control, and our inability to meet these conditions would deny us access to additional funding from CRG. If we do not have access to additional CRG funding, and if we are unable to secure other sources of funding (which may be unavailable on desirable terms, and may not be available at all), our cash position could become materially impaired, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our company and stock price.. Until ONSOLIS® returns to the market in North America, we will not receive additional revenues from ONSOLIS®.. ONSOLIS® was originally licensed to and launched in the U.S. by Meda. In January 2015, we entered into an assignment and revenue sharing agreement with Meda under which Meda transferred the marketing authorizations for ONSOLIS® for the U.S. back to us. On May 11, 2016, we and Collegium executed a definitive license and development Agreement under which we have granted the exclusive rights to develop and commercialize ONSOLIS® in the U.S. to Collegium.. On December 8, 2017, we received the required 90-day notice from Collegium regarding termination of the License Agreement and the effective date of termination is March 8, 2018. We are assessing our commercial options for ONSOLIS®.. Social issues around the abuse of opioids, including law enforcement concerns over diversion of opioids and regulatory efforts to combat abuse, misuse and addiction could impact the potential market for BELBUCA®, BUNAVAIL® and our product candidate.. Media stories regarding prescription drug abuse and the diversion of opioids and other controlled substances are commonplace. Law enforcement and regulatory agencies may apply policies and guidelines that seek to limit the availability or use of opioids. Such efforts may inhibit our ability to commercialize BELBUCA®, potentially BUNAVAIL® and our product candidate.. Aggressive enforcement and unfavorable publicity regarding, for example, the use or misuse of oxycodone or other opioid drugs; the limitations of abuse-resistant formulations; the ability of drug abusers to discover previously unknown ways to abuse opioid drugs; public inquiries and investigations into prescription drug abuse; litigation; or regulatory activity regarding sales, marketing, distribution or storage of opioid drugs could have a material adverse effect on our reputation. Such negative publicity could reduce the potential size of the market for BELBUCA®, and possibly BUNAVAIL® and our product candidates and decrease the revenues we are able to generate from their sale. Similarly, to the extent opioid abuse becomes less prevalent or less urgent of a public health issue, regulators and third-party payers may not be willing to pay a premium for abuse-deterrent formulations of opioids or opioids such as BELBUCA® with less abuse and addiction potential compared to Schedule II opioids.. 33. Table of Contents. Efforts by the FDA and other regulatory bodies to combat abuse of opioids may negatively impact the market for our product candidates. In February 2016, the FDA released an action plan to address the opioid abuse epidemic and reassess the FDA's approach to opioid medications. The plan identifies FDA's focus on implementing policies to reverse the opioid abuse epidemic, while maintaining access to effective treatments. The actions set forth in the FDA's plan include strengthening post marketing study requirements to evaluate the benefit of long-term opioid use, changing the REMS requirements to provide additional funding for physician education courses, releasing a draft guidance setting forth approval standards for generic-abuse deterrent opioid formulations, and seeking input from the FDA's Scientific Board to broaden the understanding of the public risks of opioid abuse. The FDA's Scientific Advisory Board met to address these issues on March 1, 2016. The FDA's plan is part of a broader initiative led by the HHS to address opioid-related overdose, death and dependence. The HHS initiative's focus is on improving physician's use of opioids through education and resources to address opioid over-prescribing, increasing use and development of improved delivery systems for naloxone, which can reverse overdose from both prescription opioids and heroin, to reduce overdose-related deaths, and expanding the use of Medication-Assisted Treatment, which couples counseling and behavioral therapies with medication to address substance abuse. Also, as part of this initiative, the CDC has launched a state grant program to offer state health departments resources to assist with abuse prevention efforts, including efforts to track opioid prescribing through state-run electronic databases. In March 2016, as part of the HHS initiative, the CDC released a new Guideline for Prescribing Opioids for Chronic Pain. The guideline is intended to assist primary care providers treating adults for chronic pain in outpatient settings. The guideline provides recommendations to improve communications between doctors and patients about the risks and benefits of opioid therapy for chronic pain, improve the safety and effectiveness of pain treatment, and reduce the risks associated with long-term opioid therapy. The guideline does not specifically address the use of buprenorphine for chronic pain or make treatment recommendations about the use of abuse-deterrent opioids. Many of these changes and others could cause us to expend additional resources in developing and commercializing BELBUCA® and our product candidates to meet additional requirements.. Government agencies may establish and promulgate usage guidelines that could limit the use of our products and drug candidate.. National and state level government agencies, professional and medical societies, and other groups may establish usage guidelines that apply to our products and drug candidate. These guidelines could address such matters as usage and dose, among other factors. Application of such guidelines could limit the clinical use or commercial appeal of our products or drug candidate.. Acceptance of our technologies, product candidates or products in the marketplace is uncertain and failure to achieve market acceptance will prevent or delay our ability to generate material revenues.. Our future financial performance will depend, to a large extent, upon the introduction and physician and patient acceptance of our technologies, product candidates and products. Even if approved for marketing by the necessary regulatory authorities, our technologies, product candidates and products may not achieve market acceptance.. The degree of market acceptance for our products and product candidates will depend upon a number of factors, including:. <U+0095>   regulatory clearance of marketing claims for the uses that we are developing;. <U+0095>   demonstration of the advantages, safety and efficacy of our products and technologies;. <U+0095>   pricing and reimbursement policies of government and third-party payers such as insurance companies, health maintenance organizations and other health plan administrators;. <U+0095>   ability to attract corporate partners, including pharmaceutical companies, to assist in commercializing our products;. <U+0095>   regulatory programs such as the class-wide REMS for ONSOLIS®, BELBUCA® and BUNAVAIL® or market (including competitive) forces that may make it more difficult for us to penetrate a particular market segment; and. <U+0095>   ability to timely and effectively manufacture and market our products.. Physicians, various other health care providers, patients, payers or the medical community in general may be unwilling to accept, utilize or recommend any of our approved products or product candidates. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval or are unable (either on our own or through third parties) to manufacture, commercialize and market our proposed formulations or products when planned, we may not achieve any market acceptance or generate revenue.. 34. Table of Contents. All these risks are particularly true for BELBUCA® and BUNAVAIL®, which are our two products that we are commercializing ourselves.. If we are unable to convince physicians as to the benefits of our products or product candidates, we may incur delays or additional expense in our attempt to establish market acceptance.. Use of our products and, if approved, our product candidates will require physicians to be informed regarding the intended benefits of our products and product candidates. The time and cost of such an educational process may be substantial. Inability to carry out this physician education process may adversely affect market acceptance of our proposed formulations or products. We may be unable to timely educate physicians regarding our intended pharmaceutical formulations or products in sufficient numbers to achieve our marketing plans or to achieve product acceptance. Any delay in physician education may materially delay or reduce demand for our formulations or products. In addition, we may expend significant funds toward physician education before any acceptance or demand for our products or product candidates are created, if at all. Nonetheless, even with our best efforts, certain physicians may never prescribe our product.. We have been and expect to be significantly dependent on our collaborative agreements for the development and manufacturing of our products and product candidates, which expose us to the risk of reliance on the performance of third parties.. In conducting our operations, we currently rely, and expect to continue to rely, on numerous collaborative agreements with third parties such as manufacturers, contract research organizations, commercial partners, universities, governmental agencies and not-for-profit organizations for both strategic and financial resources. Key among these agreements are our manufacturing agreements with LTS relating to BREAKYL<U+0099> and Sharp relating to BELBUCA® and BUNAVAIL®.. The termination of these relationships, or failure to perform by us or our partners (who are subject to regulatory, competitive and other risks) under their applicable agreements or arrangements with us, or our failure to secure additional agreements for our product candidates, would substantially disrupt or delay our research and development activities, including our in-process and anticipated clinical trials. Any such loss would likely increase our expenses and materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operation.. The risks associated with reliance on key third parties was demonstrated in 2010 when Aveva experienced certain adverse equipment and regulatory issues leading to the temporary stoppage of manufacturing of all products at that site, which left us exposed to delays in our and our partners' commercial plans. In addition, in March 2012 Meda temporarily suspended distribution of ONSOLIS® following discussions with the FDA regarding issues with the product's appearance. Specifically, the FDA raised concerns about two cosmetic issues that may have originated from the formulation used in the manufacturing of ONSOLIS® following an inspection of Aveva (now a subsidiary of Apotex), which formerly manufactured ONSOLIS® on our behalf. On March 12, 2012, we announced the postponement of the U.S. and Canadian relaunch of ONSOLIS® until the product formulation can be modified to address these issues. However, on January 27, 2015, we announced that we had entered into an assignment and revenue sharing agreement with Meda to return to us the marketing authorizations for ONSOLIS® for the U.S. and the right to seek marketing authorizations for ONSOLIS® in Canada and Mexico. Subsequently, on May 11, 2016, we announced the signing of a licensing agreement under which we granted the exclusive rights to develop and commercialize in the U.S. to Collegium.. However, on December 8, 2017, we received the required 90-day notice from Collegium regarding termination of the License Agreement and the effective date of termination was March 8, 2018. We are assessing our commercial options for ONSOLIS®. Any future manufacturing interruptions or related supply issues could have a material adverse effect on our company.. We depend upon key personnel who may terminate their employment with us at any time. Moreover, our former President and Chief Executive Officer retired as of January 2018, and as of the date of this report we have only found a successor for President. We may be unable to fill the key position for Chief Executive Officer with a qualified candidate, which could adversely impact our company.. Our ability to achieve our corporate objectives will depend to a significant degree upon the continued services of key management, technical and scientific personnel, particularly our senior executive officers. Our management and other employees may voluntarily terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of the services of these or other key personnel, or the inability to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, could result in delays to product development or approval, loss of sales and diversion of management resources. In addition, we depend on our ability to attract and retain other highly skilled personnel, including research scientists. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and the process of hiring and integrating such qualified personnel is often lengthy. We may be unable to recruit such personnel on a timely basis, if at all, which would negatively impact our development and commercialization programs. Additionally, we do not currently maintain \"key person\" life insurance on the lives of our executives or any of our employees. This lack of insurance means that we may not have adequate compensation for the loss of the services of these individuals.. 35. Table of Contents. In particular, Dr. Sirgo retired as our President and Chief Executive Officer as of January 2018. In December 2017, we promoted Scott Plesha, our Senior Vice President of Sales to President. We are currently conducting a search for a successor to Dr. Sirgo for the position of Chief Executive Officer. Recruiting qualified candidates for such senior executive positions within the specialty pharmaceutical industry is challenging, the timing is uncertain and we may be unsuccessful in filling that key position with a qualified candidate, or even if we do fill that position, that such candidate will perform according to our expectations. In addition, during the transition to a new President and Chief Executive Officer, we may encounter challenges in our operations which could impact our results of operations.. We may be unable to manage our growth effectively.. After focusing our efforts for many years on clinical development of products, our business strategy now contemplates growth and expansion as we continue our evolution into a fully integrated specialty pharmaceutical company. For example, as we in-license or acquire additional product candidates, we will likely have to expand existing operations to conduct additional clinical trials, increase our contract manufacturing capabilities, hire and train new personnel to handle the marketing and sales of our products and assist patients in obtaining reimbursement for the use of our products. We may also need to grow to support our commercial activities for BELBUCA® and BUNAVAIL® or other approved products. This growth may place significant strain on our management and financial and operational resources. Successful growth is also dependent upon our ability to implement appropriate financial and management controls, systems and procedures. Our ability to effectively manage growth depends on our success in attracting and retaining highly qualified personnel, for which the competition may be intense. If we fail to manage these challenges effectively, our business could be harmed.. We are exposed to product liability, non-clinical and clinical liability risks which could place a substantial financial burden upon us, should lawsuits be filed against us.. Our business exposes us to potential product liability and other liability risks that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical formulations and products. We expect that such claims are likely to be asserted against us at some point. In addition, the use in our clinical trials of pharmaceutical formulations and products and the subsequent sale of these formulations or products by us or our potential collaborators may cause us to bear a portion of or all product liability risks. A successful liability claim or series of claims brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We currently have a general liability/product liability policy which includes coverage for our clinical trials and our commercially marketed products. Annual aggregate limits include $2 million for general liability, with $1 million for each occurrence; product liability is $15 million for aggregate and $15 million per occurrence with excess liability in the amount of an additional $5 million; umbrella liability is $5 million aggregate and $5 million per occurrence. It is possible that this coverage will be insufficient to protect us from future claims. Under our agreements, our partners are required to carry comprehensive general product liability and tort liability insurance, each in amounts not less than $5 million per incident and $10 million annual aggregate and to name us as an additional insured thereon. However, we or our commercial partners may be unable to obtain or maintain adequate product liability insurance on acceptable terms, if at all, and there is a risk that our insurance will not provide adequate coverage against our potential liabilities. Furthermore, our current and potential partners with whom we have collaborative agreements or our future licensees may not be willing to indemnify us against these types of liabilities and may not themselves be sufficiently insured or have sufficient assets to satisfy any product liability claims. Claims or losses in excess of any product liability insurance coverage that may be obtained by us or our partners could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Moreover, product liability insurance is costly, and due to the nature of the pharmaceutical products underlying BELBUCA®, BUNAVAIL®, ONSOLIS® and our product candidates, we or our partners may not be able to obtain such insurance, or, if obtained, we or our partners may not be able to maintain such insurance on economically feasible terms. If a product or product candidate related action is brought against us, or liability is found against us prior to our obtaining product liability insurance for any product or product candidate, or should we have liability found against us for any other matter in excess of any insurance coverage we may carry, we could face significant difficulty continuing operations.. We are presently a party to lawsuits by third parties who claim that our products, methods of manufacture or methods of use infringe on their intellectual property rights, and we may be exposed to these types of claims in the future.. 36. Table of Contents. We are presently, and may continue to be, exposed to litigation by third parties based on claims that our technologies, processes, formulations, methods, or products infringe the intellectual property rights of others or that we have misappropriated the trade secrets of others. This risk is exacerbated by the fact that the validity and breadth of claims covered in pharmaceutical patents is, in most instances, uncertain and highly complex. Any litigation or claims against us, whether or not valid, would result in substantial costs, could place a significant strain on our financial and human resources and could harm our reputation. Such a situation may force us to do one or more of the following:. <U+0095>   incur significant costs in legal expenses for defending against an intellectual property infringement suit;. <U+0095>   delay the launch of, or cease selling, making, importing, incorporating or using one or more or all of our technologies and/or formulations or products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, which would adversely affect our revenue;. <U+0095>   obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which license may be costly or may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; or. <U+0095>   redesign our formulations or products, which would be costly and time-consuming.. With respect to our BEMA® delivery technology, the thin film drug delivery technology space is highly competitive. There is a risk that a court of law in the United States' or elsewhere could determine that one or more of our BEMA® based products conflicts with or covered by external patents. This risk presently exists in our litigation with Aquestive which was filed by Aquestive in November 2010, wherein Aquestive claims that our and our partner's trade secret manufacturing process for ONSOLIS® is infringing upon Aquestive patented manufacturing process, as well as a similar litigation with Reckitt Benckiser, Inc., RB Pharmaceuticals Limited, and Aquestive relating to our BUNAVAIL® product which was filed in October 2013. If the courts in these cases were to rule against us and our partner in that case, we could be forced to license technology from Aquestive or otherwise incur liability for damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability for us or our partners to market and sell BUNAVAIL® or ONSOLIS®.. We have been granted non-exclusive license rights to European Patent No. 949 925, which is controlled by LTS to market BELBUCA® and ONSOLIS® within the countries of the European Union. We are required to pay a low single digit royalty on sales of products that are covered by this patent in the European Union. We have not conducted freedom to operate searches and analyses for our other proposed products. Moreover, the possibility exists that a patent could issue that would cover one or more of our products, requiring us to defend a patent infringement suit or necessitating a patent validity challenge that would be costly, time consuming and possibly unsuccessful.. Our lawsuits with Aquestive and RB Pharmaceuticals have caused us to incur significant legal costs to defend ourselves, and we would be subject to similar costs if we are a party to similar lawsuits in the future Furthermore, if a court were to determine that we infringe any other patents and that such patents are valid, we might be required to seek one or more licenses to commercialize our BEMA® products. We may be unable to obtain such licenses from the patent holders, which could materially and adversely impact our business.. If we are unable to adequately protect or enforce our rights to intellectual property or secure rights to third-party patents, we may lose valuable rights, experience reduced market share, assuming there is any market share, or incur costly litigation to, enforce, maintain or protect such rights.. Our ability to license, enforce and maintain patents, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others will be important to our commercializing any formulations or products under development. The current and future development of our drug delivery technologies is contingent upon whether we are able to maintain licenses and access patented technologies. Without these licenses, the use of technologies would be limited and the sales of our products could be prohibited. Therefore, any disruption in access to the technologies could substantially delay the development and sale of our products.. The patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, including ours, which involve licensing agreements, are frequently uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. In addition, the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued. Consequently, our patents, patent applications and licensed rights may not provide protection against competitive technologies or may be held invalid if challenged or could be circumvented. Our competitors may also independently develop drug delivery technologies or products similar to ours or design around or otherwise circumvent patents issued to, or licensed by, us. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as U.S. law.. We also rely upon trade secrets, technical know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. We require our employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to execute appropriate confidentiality and. 37. Table of Contents. assignment-of-inventions agreements with us. These agreements provide that materials and confidential information developed or made known to the individual during the course of the individual's relationship with us is to be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in specific circumstances and assign the ownership of relevant inventions created during the course of employment to us. These agreements may be breached, and in some instances, we may not have an appropriate remedy available for breach of the agreements. Furthermore, our competitors may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques, reverse engineer, or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technology. We may be unable to meaningfully protect our rights in trade secrets, technical know-how and other non-patented technology.. In addition, we may have to resort to costly and time consuming litigation to protect or enforce our rights under certain intellectual property, or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. Enforcing or defending our rights could be expensive, could cause significant diversion of our resources and may not prove successful. Any failure to enforce or protect our rights could cause us to lose the ability to exclude others from using our technologies to develop or sell competing products.. We are dependent on third party suppliers for key components of our delivery technologies, products and product candidates.. Key components of our drug delivery technologies, products and product candidates may be provided by sole or limited numbers of suppliers, and supply shortages or loss of these suppliers could result in interruptions in supply or increased costs. Certain components used in our research and development activities, such as the active pharmaceutical component of our products, are currently purchased from a single or a limited number of outside sources. The reliance on a sole or limited number of suppliers could result in:. <U+0095>   delays associated with research and development and non-clinical and clinical trials due to an inability to timely obtain a single or limited source component;. <U+0095>   inability to timely obtain an adequate supply of required components; and. <U+0095>   reduced control over pricing, quality and timely delivery.. Our relationships with our manufacturers and suppliers are particularly important to us and any loss of or material diminution of their capabilities due to factors such as regulatory issues, accidents, acts of God or any other factor would have a material adverse effect on our company. Such risks were demonstrated when certain manufacturing issues were experienced at Aveva in 2010-2011 and when, subsequently and separately, the FDA identified certain product appearance issues with ONSOLIS®, which resulted in the March 2012 postponement of the U.S. and Canadian relaunch of the product. Any loss of or interruption in the supply of components from our suppliers or other third-party suppliers would require us to seek alternative sources of supply or require us to manufacture these components internally, which we are currently not able to do.. If the supply of any components is lost or interrupted, product or components from alternative suppliers may not be available in sufficient quality or in volumes within required time frames, if at all, to meet our or our partners' needs. This could delay our ability to complete clinical trials, obtain approval for commercialization or commence marketing or cause us to lose sales, force us into breach of other agreements, incur additional costs, delay new product introductions or harm our reputation. Furthermore, product or components from a new supplier may not be identical to those provided by the original supplier. Such differences could have material effects on our overall business plan and timing, could fall outside of regulatory requirements, affect product formulations or the safety and effectiveness of our products that are being developed.. We have limited manufacturing experience and therefore depend on third parties to formulate and manufacture our products. We may not be able to secure or maintain the manufacture of sufficient quantities or at an acceptable cost necessary to successfully commercialize or continue to sell our products.. Our management's expertise has primarily been in the areas of research and development, formulation development and clinical trial phases of pharmaceutical product development as well as commercial operations. Our management's experience in the manufacturing of pharmaceutical products is more limited and we have limited equipment and no facilities of our own from which these activities could be performed. Therefore, we are fully dependent on third parties for our formulation development, manufacturing and the packaging of our products. This is particularly true with respect to ARx and Sharp, the primary manufacturers of our approved and commercialized product, BELBUCA® and BUNAVAIL®. We also rely on LTS, the manufacturer for BREAKYL<U+0099> in the E.U. This reliance exposes us to the risk of not being able to directly oversee the production and quality of the manufacturing process and provide ample commercial supplies to formulate sufficient product to conduct clinical trials and maintain adequate supplies to meet market demand for our products.. Furthermore, these third-party contractors, whether foreign or domestic, may experience regulatory compliance difficulty, mechanical shut downs, employee strikes, or any other unforeseeable acts that may delay or limit production, which could leave our commercial partners with inadequate supplies of product to sell, especially when regulatory requirements or customer demand. 38. Table of Contents. necessitate the need for additional product supplies. Our inability to adequately establish, supervise and conduct (either ourselves or through third parties) all aspects of the formulation and manufacturing processes, and the inability of third party manufacturers like ARx, Sharp and LTS to consistently supply quality product when required would have a material adverse effect on our ability to commercialize and sell our products. We have faced risks associated with reliance on key third party manufacturers in the past and may be faced with such risks in the future. Any future manufacturing interruptions or related supply issues could have an adverse effect on our company, including loss of sales and royalty revenue and claims by or against us or our partners for breach of contract.. There are risks associated with our reliance on third parties for marketing, sales, managed care and distribution infrastructure and channels.. We expect that we will be required to enter into agreements with commercial partners (such as our agreement with Meda) to engage in sales, marketing and distribution efforts around our products and product candidates. We may be unable to establish or maintain third-party relationships on a commercially reasonable basis, if at all. In addition, these third parties may have similar or more established relationships with our competitors. If we do not enter into relationships with third parties for the sales and marketing of our proposed formulations or products, we will need to develop our own sales and marketing capabilities.. We may be unable to engage qualified distributors. Even if engaged, these distributors may:. <U+0095>   fail to satisfy financial or contractual obligations to us;. <U+0095>   fail to adequately market our formulations or products;. <U+0095>   cease operations with little or no notice to us; or. <U+0095>   offer, design, manufacture or promote competing formulations or products.. If we fail to develop sales, managed care, marketing and distribution channels, we would experience delays in generating sales and incur increased costs, which would harm our financial results.. The class-wide Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) for all transmucosal fentanyl products, and similar programs for other narcotic products, may slow sales and marketing efforts for products that contain narcotics, which could impact our royalty and sales revenue from such products.. Our approved product ONSOLIS® is formulated with the potent narcotic fentanyl. On December 29, 2011, FDA approved a REMS program covering all transmucosal fentanyl products. The program, which is referred to as the Transmucosal Immediate Release Fentanyl (TIRF) REMS Access Program, was designed to ensure informed risk-benefit decisions before initiating treatment with a transmucosal fentanyl product, and while patients are on treatment, to ensure appropriate use. The approved program covers all approved transmucosal fentanyl products under a single program and was implemented in March 2012. Additionally, the FDA has implemented a class-wide REMS covering the extended release and long acting opioid class. The class-wide REMS program consists of a REMS-compliant educational program offered by an accredited provider of continuing medical education, patient counseling materials and a medication guide. BELBUCA® falls within the existing class-wide REMS program. The cost and implementation of the extended release and long-acting opioid REMS is shared among multiple companies in the category.. There also continues to be a REMS in place for buprenorphine for the treatment of opioid dependence referred to as the BTOD (Buprenorphine-containing Transmucosal products for Opioid Dependence) REMS. BUNAVAIL® falls within the existing REMS, which is far less cumbersome and includes a medication guide and healthcare professional and patient education. Given the existence of a REMS in both the extended release and long-acting opioid and opioid dependence markets, we anticipate our products will fit within the existing REMS and will avoid the issues initially encountered with ONSOLIS®, where a REMS program was yet to be developed.. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures.. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems and those of our current and any future partners, contractors, and consultants are vulnerable to damage from cyber-attacks, computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war, and telecommunication and electrical failures. System failures, accidents, or security breaches could cause interruptions in our operations, and could result in a material disruption of our commercialization activities, development programs and our business operations, in addition to possibly requiring substantial expenditures of resources to remedy. The loss of clinical trial data from completed or future clinical trials could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. To the extent that any disruption or security breach were to result in a loss of, or damage to, our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur liability and the commercialization of any potential product candidate could be delayed.. 39. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Products in Development and Regulation. We depend in large part on our BEMA® drug delivery technology, and the loss of access to this technology would terminate or delay the further development of our products, injure our reputation or force us to pay higher fees.. We depend, in large part, on our BEMA® drug delivery technology. The loss of this key technology would seriously impair our business and future viability, and could result in delays in developing, introducing or maintaining our products and formulations until equivalent technology, if available, is identified, licensed and integrated. In addition, any defects in the BEMA® technology or other technologies we gain access to in the future could prevent the implementation or impair the functionality of our products or formulations, delay new product or formulation introductions or injure our reputation. If we are required to acquire or enter into license agreements with third parties for replacement technologies, we could be subject to higher fees, milestone or royalty payments, assuming we could access such technologies at all.. Our failure to obtain government approvals, including required FDA approvals, or to comply with ongoing governmental regulations relating to our technologies and proposed products and formulations could delay or limit introduction of our proposed formulations and products and result in failure to achieve revenues or maintain our ongoing business.. Our research and development activities and the manufacture and marketing of our products and product candidates are subject to extensive regulation for safety, efficacy and quality by numerous government authorities in the United States and abroad. Before receiving FDA or foreign regulatory clearance to market our proposed formulations and products, we will have to demonstrate that our formulations and products are safe and effective in the patient population and for the diseases that are to be treated. Clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing of drugs are subject to the rigorous testing and approval process of the FDA and equivalent foreign regulatory authorities. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and other federal, state and foreign statutes and regulations govern and influence the testing, manufacture, labeling, advertising, distribution and promotion of drugs and medical devices. As a result, regulatory approvals can take a number of years or longer to accomplish and require the expenditure of substantial financial, managerial and other resources.. Our failure to complete or meet key milestones relating to the development of our technologies and proposed products and formulations would significantly impair the viability of our company.. In order to be commercially viable, we must research, develop, obtain regulatory approval for, manufacture, introduce, market and distribute formulations or products incorporating our technologies. For each drug that we formulate with our drug delivery technologies, we must meet a number of critical developmental milestones, including:. <U+0095>   demonstration of the benefit from delivery of each specific drug through our drug delivery technologies;. <U+0095>   demonstration, through non-clinical and clinical trials, that our drug delivery technologies are safe and effective; and. <U+0095>   establishment of a viable Good Manufacturing Process capable of potential scale-up.. The estimated required capital and time-frames necessary to achieve these developmental milestones is subject to inherent risks, many of which may be beyond our control. As such, we may not be able to achieve these or similar milestones for any of our proposed product candidates or other product candidates in the future. Our failure to meet these or other critical milestones would adversely affect the viability of our company.. Conducting and completing the clinical trials necessary for FDA approval is costly and subject to intense regulatory scrutiny as well as the risk of failing to meet the primary endpoint of such trials. We will not be able to commercialize and sell our proposed products and formulations without successfully completing such trials.. Clinical testing is expensive and can take many years to complete, and its outcome is inherently uncertain. In order to conduct clinical trials that are necessary to obtain approval by the FDA to market a drug product, the FDA requires the submission of an IND. The FDA has 30 days to review the IND and, unless the FDA raises an issue or concern about the clinical trial plan during that time period, the IND becomes effective at the end of that 30 days and sponsors may proceed with their clinical trial plans. The FDA can suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time due to a number of factors, including for safety or efficacy reasons, because we or our clinical investigators did not comply with the FDA's requirements for conducting clinical trials, changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions or lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. If the FDA does not permit us to proceed with our. 40. Table of Contents. planned clinical trials or the trials are suspended or permanently terminated by us, the FDA or any institutional review boards overseeing the trials, the commercial prospects of our product candidates will be harmed, and our ability to generate product revenues from any of these product candidates will be delayed. In addition, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of our product candidates.. In addition, it is our stated intention to seek to avail ourselves of the FDA's 505(b)(2) approval procedure where it is appropriate to do so. Section 505(b)(2) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act permits an applicant to file a NDA where at least some of the information required for approval comes from studies not conducted by or for the applicant and for which the applicant has not obtained a right of reference. The applicant may rely upon published literature and the FDA's findings of safety and effectiveness based on certain preclinical testing or clinical studies conducted for an approved product. The FDA may also require companies to perform additional studies or measurements to support the change from the approved product. If this approval pathway is not available to us with respect to a particular formulation or product, or at all, the time and cost associated with developing and commercializing such formulations or products may be prohibitive and our business strategy would be materially and adversely affected.. Moreover, we may be required to conduct additional costly and time-consuming clinical studies beyond those that we originally anticipate in the event that our clinical trials fail to meet their primary endpoints or for other reasons, which would render them inadequate to support approval by the FDA. For example, in September 2011, we announced that our Phase 3 clinical trial for BELBUCA® did not meet its primary endpoint and therefore we were required to conduct new and costly trials under our license and development agreement with Endo prior to NDA approval. Additionally, in December 2016, we announced that our Phase 2b clinical study assessing the efficacy and safety of Clonidine Topical Gel failed to show a statistically significant difference in pain relief between Clonidine Topical Gel and placebo. As a result, we discontinued further development of the product. If our trials fail to meet their endpoints and we elect to move forward with clinical development, conducting new clinical trials in accordance with the FDA requirements and with designs that seek to remedy any prior trial deficiencies will require significant additional capital with no assurances of positive outcomes, and will not able to commercialize and sell our any applicable product until we were able to meet our primary endpoints, of which no assurances can be given.. Data obtained from clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals.. Data already obtained, or data we may obtain in the future, from non-clinical studies and clinical trials do not necessarily predict the results that will be obtained from later non-clinical studies and clinical trials. Moreover, non-clinical and clinical data are susceptible to multiple and varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including those involved in competing drug delivery technologies, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials. The failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of a proposed formulation or product under development could delay or prevent regulatory clearance of the product candidate, resulting in delays to commercialization, and could materially harm our business. In addition, our clinical trials may not demonstrate sufficient levels of safety and efficacy necessary to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for our drugs, and thus our proposed drugs may not be approved for marketing. Finally, if any of our clinical trials do not meet their primary endpoints, or for a variety of other reasons, we may be required to conduct additional clinical trials in order to progress development of the subject product. These additional trials would be costly and time-consuming and would divert resources from other projects.. The foregoing risks were evidenced by the failure of our Phase 3 trial for BELBUCA® for the treatment of moderate to severe chronic pain to meet its primary endpoint, which we announced September 2011. These risks were further evidenced in that, on March 30, 2015, we announced that the primary efficacy endpoint in the Phase 3 clinical study of Clonidine Topical Gel compared to placebo for the treatment of PDN did not meet statistical significance, although certain secondary endpoints showed statistically significant improvement over placebo. Final analysis of the study identified a sizeable patient population with a statistically significant improvement (n=158; p<0.02) in pain score vs placebo. Following thorough analysis of the data and identification of the reasons behind the study results, we initiated a second study. The study incorporates significant learnings from previously conducted studies and involves tightened and additional inclusion criteria to improve assay sensitivity, reduce bias and ensure compliance with enrollment criteria. In December 2016, we announced that our Phase 2b clinical study assessing the efficacy and safety of Clonidine Topical Gel failed to show a statistically significant difference in pain relief between Clonidine Topical Gel and placebo. As a result, we are discontinuing further development of the product and have returned the rights to Arcion.. 41. Table of Contents. If users of our products and product candidates are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payers, or if new restrictive legislation is adopted, market acceptance of our proposed formulations or products may be limited and we may not achieve material revenues.. The continuing efforts of government and insurance companies, health maintenance organizations and other payers of healthcare costs to contain or reduce costs of health care may affect our future revenues and profitability, and the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers and collaborative partners and the availability of capital. For example, in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. In the United States, given recent federal and state government initiatives directed at lowering the total cost of health care, the U.S. Congress and state legislatures will likely continue to focus on health care reform, the cost of prescription pharmaceuticals and on the reform of the Medicare and Medicaid systems. While we cannot predict whether any such legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted, the announcement or adoption of such proposals and related laws, rules and regulations could materially harm our business, financial conditions, results of operations or stock price. Moreover, the passage of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act in 2010, and efforts to amend or repeal such law, has created significant uncertainty relating to the scope of government regulation of healthcare and related legal and regulatory requirements, which could have an adverse impact on sales of our products.. The ability of our company to commercialize BELBUCA® and BUNAVAIL®, or any partners with which we have a licensing arrangement to sell ONSOLIS® will depend in part on the extent to which appropriate reimbursement levels for the cost of our proposed formulations and products and related treatments are obtained by governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as HMOs. Consumers and third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for drugs and medical services. Also, the trend toward managed health care in the United States, which could control or significantly influence the purchase of health care services and drugs, as well as legislative proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may all result in lower prices for or rejection of our drugs.. We could be exposed to significant drug product liability claims which could be time consuming and costly to defend, divert management attention and adversely impact our ability to obtain and maintain insurance coverage.. The testing, manufacture, marketing and sale of our proposed drug formulations involve an inherent risk that product liability claims will be asserted against us. All of our clinical trials have been, and all of our proposed clinical trials are anticipated to be conducted by collaborators and third-party contractors. We currently have a general liability/product liability policy which includes coverage for our clinical trials and our commercially marketed products. Annual aggregate limits include $2 million for general liability, with $1 million for each occurrence; product liability is $15 million for aggregate and $15 million per occurrence with excess liability in the amount of an additional $5 million; umbrella liability is $5 million aggregate and $5 million per occurrence. It is possible that this coverage will be insufficient to protect us from future claims. Under our agreement, Meda is required to carry comprehensive general product liability and tort liability insurance, each in amounts not less than $5 million per incident and $10 million annual aggregate and to name us as an additional insured thereon.. Should we decide to seek additional insurance against such risks before our product sales commence, there is a risk that such insurance will be unavailable to us, or if it can be obtained at such time, that it will be available at an unaffordable cost. Even if we obtain insurance, it may prove inadequate to cover claims and/or litigation costs, especially in the case of wrongful death claims. Product liability claims or other claims related to our products, regardless of their outcome, could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant settlement amounts or judgments. Any successful product liability or other claim may prevent us from obtaining adequate liability insurance in the future on commercially desirable or reasonable terms. An inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our products and product candidates. A product liability claim could also significantly harm our reputation and delay market acceptance of our proposed formulations and products. In addition, although third party partners are required to provide insurance in connection with specific products such partners may face similar insurance related risks.. Our business involves environmental risks related to handling regulated substances which could severely affect our ability to conduct research and development of our drug delivery technology and product candidates.. In connection with our or our partners' research and clinical development activities, as well as the manufacture of materials and products, we and our partners are subject to federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and policies governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, air emission, effluent discharge, handling and disposal of certain materials, biological specimens and wastes. We and our partners may be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental and health and safety regulations in the future. Our research and clinical development, as well as the activities of our manufacturing and commercial partners, both now and in the future, may involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including but not limited to certain hazardous chemicals and narcotics. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of such an occurrence, we could be held liable for any damages that result and any such liability could exceed our resources.. 42. Table of Contents. Government and other efforts to reform the healthcare industry could have adverse effects on our company, including the inability of users of our current and future approved products to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payers, which could lead to diminished market acceptance of, and revenues from, such products.. Our ability to commercialize BELBUCA®, BUNAVAIL® and to sell ONSOLIS® (once it is reformulated and placed back on the market in the U.S. and Canada), alone or with collaborators, will depend in part on the extent to which coverage and reimbursement for the product will be available from:. <U+0095>   government and health administration authorities;. <U+0095>   private health maintenance organizations and health insurers; and. <U+0095>   other healthcare payers.. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products. The regulations that govern marketing approvals, pricing and reimbursement for new drug products vary widely from country to country. In the United States, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010 (\"ACA\"), is significantly changing the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers. While we cannot predict what impact on federal reimbursement policies this law or any amendment to it will continue to have in general or specifically on any product that we commercialize, the ACA or any such amendment may result in downward pressure on pharmaceutical reimbursement, which could negatively affect market acceptance of new products. In addition, although the United States Supreme Court has upheld the constitutionality of most of the ACA, several states have not implemented certain sections of the ACA, including 19 that have rejected the expansion of Medicaid eligibility for low income citizens, and some members of the U.S. Congress are still working to repeal the ACA. More recently, President Trump and the Republican majorities in both houses of the U.S. Congress have been seeking to repeal or replace all or portions of the ACA but to date they have been unable to agree on any such legislation.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 includes a provision repealing, effective January 1, 2019, the tax-based shared responsibility payment imposed by the ACA on certain individuals who fail to maintain qualifying health coverage for all or part of a year that is commonly referred to as the \"individual mandate\". Additionally, on January 22, 2018, President Trump signed a continuing resolution on appropriations for fiscal year 2018 that delayed the implementation of certain fees mandated by the ACA, including the so-called \"Cadillac\" tax on certain high cost employer- sponsored insurance plans, the annual fee imposed on certain health insurance providers based on market share, and the medical device excise tax on non-exempt medical devices. Further, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018, or the BBA, among other things, amends the ACA, effective January 1, 2019, to increase from 50% to 70% the point-of-sale discount that is owed by pharmaceutical manufacturers who participate in Medicare Part D and to close the coverage gap in most Medicare drug plans, commonly referred to as the \"donut hole\". Congress may still consider other legislation to repeal and replace elements of the ACA. We expect that the ACA, as currently enacted or as it may be amended or repealed in the future, and other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our industry generally and on our ability to successfully commercialize our products. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we or our collaborators are slow or unable to adapt to changes in existing requirements or the adoption of new requirements or policies, or if we or our collaborators are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, our products may lose any regulatory approval that may have been obtained and we may not achieve or sustain profitability, which would adversely affect our business.. In addition, we are subject to the Federal Drug Supply Chain Security Act of 2013 (\"DSCSA\"). The U.S. government has enacted DSCSA which requires development of an electronic product tracking and tracing of each prescription drug at the salable unit level through the distribution system, which will be effective incrementally over a 10-year period. Compliance with DSCSA and future U.S. federal or state electronic requirements may increase our operational expenses and impose significant administrative burdens.. 43. Table of Contents. We may also be subject to healthcare laws, regulation and enforcement; our failure to comply with those laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial conditions.. We may also be subject to several healthcare regulations and enforcement by the federal government and the states and foreign governments in which we conduct our business. The laws that may affect our ability to operate include:. <U+0095>   the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (or HIPAA), as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, which governs the conduct of certain electronic healthcare transactions and protects the security and privacy of protected health information;. <U+0095>   the federal healthcare programs' Anti-Kickback Law, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs;. <U+0095>   federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent;. <U+0095>   federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters; and. <U+0095>   state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers.. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, the exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs and imprisonment, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock and Series A Non-Voting Convertible Preferred Stock. Our business is subject to increasingly complex corporate governance, public disclosure, and accounting requirements and regulations that could adversely affect our business and financial results and condition.. We are subject to changing rules and regulations of various federal and state governmental authorities as well as the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the \"SEC\") and the Nasdaq Capital Market, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional requirements and regulations in response to laws enacted by Congress, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and, most recently, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act.. There are significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that expressly authorized or required the SEC to adopt additional rules in these areas, such as an advisory shareholder vote to approve of our executives' compensation (or Say on Pay), proxy access, and an advisory shareholder vote on how often we should include a Say on Pay proposal in our proxy materials for future annual shareholder meetings or any special shareholder meeting for which we must include executive compensation information in the proxy statement for that meeting. Our efforts to comply with these requirements are likely to result in an increase in expenses which is difficult to quantify at this time.. In addition, we are subject to often complex accounting rules and interpretations promulgated by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (including its Emerging Issues Task Force). We have faced challenges of compliance with accounting rules in the past and may face such challenges in the future, and adjustments to or restatements of our financial statements or accounting policies based on such challenges could have a material adverse effect on our public stock price and our reputation.. 44. Table of Contents. Our stock price is subject to market factors and market volatility, both generally and with respect to our industry and our company specifically. As such, there is a risk that your investment in our common stock could fluctuate in value.. The overall market for securities in recent years has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of many smaller companies. In particular, the market prices of securities of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies have been extremely volatile and have experienced fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations (as well as market reactions to particular developments with our company) have and could continue to result in extreme fluctuations in the price of our common stock, which could cause a decline in the value of your common stock. These fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, may have a material or adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. If we cannot meet the NASDAQ Capital Market's continuing listing requirements and NASDAQ rules, NASDAQ may delist our securities, which could negatively affect our company, the price of our securities and your ability to sell our securities.. As of the date of this Report, our shares are listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. In the future, however, we may not be able to meet the continued listing requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market and NASDAQ rules, which require, among other things, maintaining a minimum bid price per share of $1.00, minimum stockholders equity of $2.5 million or a minimum market capitalization of $35 million and a majority of \"independent\" directors on our board of directors. We have been subject to delisting proceedings and comments by NASDAQ in the past, and during 2011 our stock price declined to levels that put us at risk of not being able to maintain the required minimum bid price or market capitalization levels or both. If we are unable to satisfy the NASDAQ criteria for continued listing, especially at our current stock price levels, our securities could again be subject to delisting. Trading, if any, of our securities would thereafter be conducted in the over-the-counter market, in the so-called \"pink sheets\" or on the OTC Bulletin Board. As a consequence of any such delisting, our stockholders would likely find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the prices of our securities.. Our Series A Non-Voting Convertible Preferred Stock ranks senior to our common stock in the event of a bankruptcy, liquidation or winding up of our assets.. As of the date of this Report, we currently have 2,139,000 issued and 2,093,155 outstanding shares of Series A Non-Voting Convertible Preferred Stock, which we issued in connection with our $40 million financing which closed on December 2012. In the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or winding up, our assets will be available to pay obligations on our Series A Non-Voting Convertible Preferred Stock in preference to the holders of our common stock.. Additional authorized shares of our common stock and preferred stock available for issuance may adversely affect the market for our common stock.. As of March 13, 2018, there are 58,465,111 shares of common stock issued and 58,449,620 shares of common stock outstanding and there were 2,139,000 shares issued and 2,093,155 outstanding of Series A Non-Voting Convertible Preferred Stock issued and outstanding. On July 21, 2011, our stockholders approved an amendment to our certificate of incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares of common stock, par value $.001, of our common stock from 45,000,000 to 75,000,000 shares. This increase in our authorized shares of common stock provides us with the flexibility to issue more shares in the future, which might cause dilution to our stockholders. In addition, the total number of shares of our common stock issued and outstanding does not include shares reserved in anticipation of the exercise of outstanding options or warrants. To the extent such options (including options under our stock incentive plan) or warrants are exercised, the holders of our common stock may experience further dilution.. Moreover, in the event that any future financing should be in the form of, be convertible into or exchangeable for, equity securities, and upon the exercise of options and warrants, investors would experience additional dilution. Finally, in addition to the above referenced shares of common stock which may be issued without stockholder approval, we have 5 million shares of authorized preferred stock, of which 2,139,000 shares have been designated as Series A Non-Voting Convertible Preferred Stock. The remaining 2,290,700 shares of preferred stock remain undesignated shares of preferred stock, the terms of which may be fixed by our board of directors. We have issued preferred stock in the past, and our board of directors has the authority, without stockholder approval, to create and issue one or more additional series of such preferred stock and to determine the voting, dividend and other rights of holders of such preferred stock. The issuance of any of such series of preferred stock may have an adverse effect on the holders of common stock.. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market for our common stock.. We have a material number of shares of common stock underlying securities of our company, the future sale of which could depress the price of our publicly-traded stock. As of March 13, 2018: (i) 3,042,677 shares of common stock are issuable upon exercise of outstanding stock options at a weighted average exercise price of $3.45 per share, (ii) 3,029,184 restricted stock units eligible to be converted shares of our common stock (iii) 2,093,155 shares of Series A preferred eligible to be converted into shares of our common stock and (iv) 2,136,020 common stock shares underlying outstanding warrants at an average exercise price of $2.60 per share.. 45. Table of Contents. In addition, from time to time, certain of our stockholders may be eligible to sell all or some of their shares of common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, which we refer to herein as the Securities Act, subject to certain limitations. In general, pursuant to Rule 144, after satisfying a six month holding period: (i) affiliated stockholder (or stockholders whose shares are aggregated) may, under certain circumstances, sell within any three month period a number of securities which does not exceed the greater of 1% of the then outstanding shares of common stock or the average weekly trading volume of the class during the four calendar weeks prior to such sale and (ii) non-affiliated stockholders may sell without such limitations, provided we are current in our public reporting obligations. Rule 144 also permits the sale of securities by non-affiliates that have satisfied a one year holding period without any limitation or restriction. Any substantial sale of our common stock pursuant to Rule 144 or pursuant to any resale report may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our securities.. Furthermore, sales of our common stock by our directors, officers, or employees may occur as a result of sales effected pursuant to predetermined trading plans adopted under the safe-harbor afforded by SEC Rule 10b5-1.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management team that stockholders may consider favorable.. Our certificate of incorporation, as amended, our amended and restated bylaws (which were adopted in 2010) and Delaware law contain provisions that may have the effect of preserving our current management, such as:. <U+0095>   providing for a staggered board of directors, which impairs the ability of our stockholders to remove our directors at annual or special meetings of stockholders;. <U+0095>   authorizing the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock without any need for action by stockholders;. <U+0095>   limiting the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders;. <U+0095>   permitting stockholder action by written consent;. <U+0095>   establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings;. <U+0095>   requiring a super-majority vote of our stockholders to remove directors of our company; and. <U+0095>   providing that our stockholders may only remove our directors for \"cause\" (as defined in our bylaws).. These provisions affect your rights as a stockholder since they permit our board of directors to make it more difficult for common stockholders to replace members of the board or undertake other significant corporate actions. Because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt to replace our current management team.. On and effective as of November 17, 2017, our board adopted our Second Amended and Restated Bylaws (which we refer to as the Second Amended Bylaws). The only material change to the Second Amended Bylaws compared to our previous amended and restated bylaws was a change in the threshold of stockholder vote needed at a duly called meeting of stockholders to remove a member of the board for cause from sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66 2/3%) of the stockholders entitled to vote at such meeting to a majority of the holders of shares entitled to vote at such meeting. This change was made in order for our bylaws to be in conformance with current Delaware law.. The financial and operational projections that we may make from time to time are subject to inherent risks.. The projections that our management may provide from time to time (including, but not limited to, those relating to potential peak sales amounts, product approval, production and supply dates, commercial launch dates, and other financial or operational matters) reflect numerous assumptions made by management, including assumptions with respect to our specific as well as general business, economic, market and financial conditions and other matters, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. Accordingly, there is a risk that the assumptions made in preparing the projections, or the projections themselves, will prove inaccurate. There will be differences between actual and projected results, and actual results may be materially different from those contained in the projections. The inclusion of the projections in (or incorporated by reference in) this Report should not be regarded as an indication that we or our management or representatives considered or consider the projections to be a reliable prediction of future events, and the projections should not be relied upon as such.. 46. Table of Contents. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock.. We have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings and do not expect to pay any dividends for the foreseeable future. Therefore, you should not invest in our common stock in the expectation that you will receive dividends.. Our additional financing requirements could result in dilution to existing stockholders.. The additional financings which we have undertaken and which we may in the future require, have and may be obtained through one or more transactions which have diluted or will dilute (either economically or in percentage terms) the ownership interests of our stockholders. Further, we may not be able to secure such additional financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We have the authority to issue additional shares of common stock and preferred stock, as well as additional classes or series of ownership interests or debt obligations which may be convertible into any one or more classes or series of ownership interests. We are authorized to issue 75 million shares of common stock and 2,290,700 shares of preferred stock. Such securities may be issued without the approval or other consent of our stockholders.. The common stock's inclusion in The NASDAQ Stock Market's \"Tick Size Pilot Program\" may limit your ability to sell your shares at the volumes, prices or times that you desire.. Effective October 31, 2016, our common stock was selected by The NASDAQ Stock Market based on Market Cap, daily volume and Share Price for inclusion in \"Test Group 3\" of its \"Tick Size Pilot Program\". The program will last for two years and imposes wider minimum quoting and/or trading increments, or \"tick sizes\", for certain securities with small market capitalization. Specifically, subject to certain exceptions, the minimum quotation price and minimum trading price for securities in Test Group 3, like the common stock, have been widened to $0.05 per share, which means that the common stock must now be quoted in $0.05 minimum increments and must now trade at $0.05 minimum increments. In addition, securities in Test Group 3 are subject to a \"trade-at\" requirement that prevents price matching by a trading center that is not displaying a protected bid or protected offer, subject to certain exceptions. As a result, brokerage firms are now required to ensure that your orders with respect to shares of the common stock are priced in nickel increments. This means that the \"limit\" or \"stop\" prices that you may place on your order can no longer be in pennies and instead must be in increments of $0.05. We cannot predict the impact, if any, of the common stock's inclusion in this Tick Size Pilot Program. This program could adversely affect the market for our common stock and could limit your ability to sell your shares at the prices, times and/or volumes that you desire."
