[1] "Item  1A.     Risk Factors. We are substantially dependent on revenues from our principal products.. Our current revenues depend upon continued sales of our principal products, and, unless we develop or acquire rights to new products and technologies, we will be substantially dependent on sales from our principal products for many years. Further, following the completion of the spin-off of our hemophilia business, our revenues are further reliant and concentrated on sales of our MS products in an increasingly competitive market, and revenues from sales of our product for SMA. Any of the following negative developments relating to any of our principal products may adversely affect our revenues and results of operations or could cause a decline in our stock price:. • safety or efficacy issues;. • the introduction or greater acceptance of competing products, including lower-priced competing products;. • constraints and additional pressures on product pricing or price increases, including those resulting from governmental or regulatory requirements, increased competition or changes in, or implementation of, reimbursement policies and practices of payors and other third parties; or. • adverse legal, administrative, regulatory or legislative developments.. SPINRAZA has been approved by, among others, the FDA, the EC and the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare, and is in the early stages of commercial launch in these and other markets. In addition to risks associated with new product launches and the other factors described in these \"Risk Factors,\" our ability to successfully commercialize SPINRAZA may be adversely affected due to:. • our limited marketing experience within the SMA market, which may impact our ability to develop relationships with the associated medical and scientific community;. • the lack of readiness of healthcare providers to treat patients with SMA;. • the effectiveness of our commercial strategy for marketing SPINRAZA; and. • our ability to maintain a positive reputation among patients, healthcare providers and others in the SMA community, which may be impacted by pricing and reimbursement decisions relating to SPINRAZA.. If we fail to compete effectively, our business and market position would suffer.. The biopharmaceutical industry and the markets in which we operate are intensely competitive. We compete in the marketing and sale of our products, the development of new products and processes, the acquisition of rights to new products with commercial potential and the hiring and retention of personnel. We compete with biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies that have a greater number of products on the market and in the product pipeline, greater financial and other resources and other technological or competitive advantages. One or more of our competitors may benefit from significantly greater sales and marketing capabilities, may develop products that are accepted more widely than ours or may receive patent protection that dominates, blocks or adversely affects our product development or business.. Our products are also susceptible to increasing competition from generics and biosimilars in many markets. Generic versions of drugs and biosimilars are likely to be sold at substantially lower prices than branded products. Accordingly, the introduction of generic or biosimilar versions of our marketed products, as well as lower-priced competing products, likely would significantly reduce both the price that we receive for such marketed products and the volume of products that we sell, which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. In the MS market, we face intense competition as the number of products and competitors continues to expand. Due to our significant reliance on sales of our MS products, our business may be harmed if we are unable to successfully compete in the MS market. More specifically, our ability to compete, maintain and grow our share in the MS market may be adversely affected due to a number of factors, including:. • the introduction of more efficacious, safer, less expensive or more convenient alternatives to our MS products, including our own products and products of our collaborators;. • the introduction of lower-cost biosimilars, follow-on products or generic versions of branded MS products sold by our competitors, and the possibility of future competition from generic versions or prodrugs of existing therapeutics or from off-label use by physicians of therapies indicated for other conditions to treat MS patients;. 33. Table of Contents. • patient dynamics, including the size of the patient population and our ability to attract new patients to our therapies;. • damage to physician and patient confidence in any of our MS products or to our sales and reputation as a result of label changes or adverse experiences or events that may occur with patients treated with our MS products;. • inability to obtain appropriate pricing and reimbursement for our MS products compared to our competitors in key international markets; or. • our ability to obtain and maintain patent, data or market exclusivity for our MS products.. Sales of our products depend, to a significant extent, on adequate coverage, pricing and reimbursement from third-party payors, which are subject to increasing and intense pressure from political, social, competitive and other sources. Our inability to maintain adequate coverage, or a reduction in pricing or reimbursement, could have an adverse effect on our business, revenues and results of operations and could cause a decline in our stock price.. Sales of our products are dependent, in large part, on the availability and extent of coverage, pricing and reimbursement from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. When a new pharmaceutical product is approved, the availability of government and private reimbursement for that product may be uncertain, as is the pricing and amount for which that product will be reimbursed.. Pricing and reimbursement for our products may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including:. • changes in, and implementation of, federal, state or foreign government regulations or private third-party payors' reimbursement policies;. • pressure by employers on private health insurance plans to reduce costs;. • consolidation and increasing assertiveness of payors, including managed care organizations, health insurers, pharmacy benefit managers, government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, seeking price discounts or rebates in connection with the placement of our products on their formularies and, in some cases, the imposition of restrictions on access or coverage of particular drugs or pricing determined based on perceived value; and. • our value-based contracting pilot program pursuant to which we aim to tie the pricing of our products to their clinical values by either aligning price to patient outcomes or adjusting price for patients who discontinue therapy for any reason, including efficacy or tolerability concerns.. Our ability to set the price for our products varies significantly from country to country and as a result so can the price of our products. Certain countries set prices by reference to the prices in other countries where our products are marketed. Thus, our inability to secure favorable prices in a particular country may not only limit the revenues from our products within that country, but may also adversely affect our ability to obtain acceptable prices in other markets. This may create the opportunity for third-party cross-border trade or influence our decision to sell or not to sell a product, thus adversely affecting our geographic expansion plans and revenues.. Our failure to maintain adequate coverage, pricing or reimbursement for our products would have an adverse effect on our business, revenues and results of operations, could curtail or eliminate our ability to adequately fund research and development programs for the discovery and commercialization of new products and could cause a decline in our stock price.. Drug prices are under significant scrutiny in the markets in which our products are prescribed. We expect drug pricing and other health care costs to continue to be subject to intense political and societal pressures on a global basis. In addition, competition from current and future competitors may negatively impact our ability to maintain pricing and our market share. New products or treatments brought to market by our competitors could cause revenues for our products to decrease due to potential price reductions and lower sales volumes. As a result, our business and reputation may be harmed, our stock price may be adversely impacted and experience periods of volatility, and our results of operations may be adversely impacted.. 34. Table of Contents. Adverse safety events or restrictions on use and safety warnings for our products can negatively affect our business, product sales and stock price.. Adverse safety events involving our marketed products may have a negative impact on our business. Discovery of safety issues with our products could create product liability and could cause additional regulatory scrutiny and requirements for additional labeling or safety monitoring, withdrawal of products from the market and the imposition of fines or criminal penalties. Adverse safety events may also damage physician, patient and/or investor confidence in our products and our reputation. Any of these could result in liabilities, loss of revenues, material write-offs of inventory, material impairments of intangible assets, goodwill and fixed assets, material restructuring charges and other adverse impacts on our results of operations.. Regulatory authorities are making greater amounts of stand-alone safety information directly available to the public through periodic safety update reports, patient registries and other reporting requirements. The reporting of adverse safety events involving our products or products similar to ours and public rumors about such events may increase claims against us and may also cause our product sales or stock price to decline or experience periods of volatility.. Restrictions on use or significant safety warnings that may be required to be included in the label of our products, such as the risk of developing progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, a serious brain infection, or liver injury in the label for certain of our products, may significantly reduce expected revenues for those products and require significant expense and management time.. If we are unable to obtain and maintain adequate protection for our data, intellectual property and other proprietary rights, our business may be harmed.. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and defend patent and other intellectual property rights that are important to the commercialization of our products and product candidates. The degree of patent protection that will be afforded to our products and processes in the U.S. and in other important markets remains uncertain and is dependent upon the scope of protection decided upon by the patent offices, courts, administrative bodies and lawmakers in these countries. We can provide no assurance that we will successfully obtain or preserve patent protection for the technologies incorporated into our products and processes, or that the protection obtained will be of sufficient breadth and degree to protect our commercial interests in all countries where we conduct business. If we cannot prevent others from exploiting our inventions, we will not derive the benefit from them that we currently expect. Furthermore, we can provide no assurance that our products will not infringe patents or other intellectual property rights held by third parties.. We also rely on regulatory exclusivity for protection of our products. Implementation and enforcement of regulatory exclusivity, which may consist of regulatory data protection and market protection, varies widely from country to country. Failure to qualify for regulatory exclusivity, or failure to obtain or maintain the extent or duration of such protections that we expect in each of the markets for our products due to challenges, changes or interpretations in the law or otherwise, could affect our revenues for our products or our decision on whether to market our products in a particular country or countries or could otherwise have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. Litigation, interferences, oppositions, inter partes reviews, administrative challenges or other similar types of proceedings are, have been and may in the future be necessary in some instances to determine the validity and scope of certain of our proprietary rights, and in other instances to determine the validity, scope or non-infringement of certain patent rights claimed by third parties to be pertinent to the manufacture, use or sale of our products. We may also face challenges to our patent and regulatory protections covering our products by third parties, including manufacturers of generics and biosimilars that may choose to launch or attempt to launch their products before the expiration of our patent or regulatory exclusivity. Litigation, interference, oppositions, inter partes reviews, administrative challenges or other similar types of proceedings are unpredictable and may be protracted, expensive and distracting to management. The outcome of such proceedings could adversely affect the validity and scope of our patent or other proprietary rights, hinder our ability to manufacture and market our products, require us to seek a license for the infringed product or technology or result in the assessment of significant monetary damages against us that may exceed amounts, if any, accrued in our financial statements. An adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or a failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products. Furthermore, payments under any licenses that we are able to obtain would reduce our profits derived from the covered products and services.. 35. Table of Contents. Our long-term success depends upon the successful development of new products and additional indications for existing products.. Our long-term viability and growth will depend upon successful development of additional indications for our existing products as well as successful development of new products and technologies from our research and development activities, our biosimilars joint venture with Samsung Biologics or licenses or acquisitions from third parties.. Product development is very expensive and involves a high degree of risk. Only a small number of research and development programs result in the commercialization of a product. Clinical trials may indicate that our product candidates lack efficacy, have harmful side effects, result in unexpected adverse events or raise other concerns that may significantly reduce the likelihood of regulatory approval. This may result in terminated programs, significant restrictions on use and safety warnings in an approved label, adverse placement within the treatment paradigm or significant reduction in the commercial potential of the product candidate.. Successful preclinical work or early stage clinical trials does not ensure success in later stage trials, regulatory approval or commercial viability of a product.. Positive results in a trial may not be replicated in subsequent or confirmatory trials. Additionally, success in preclinical work or early stage clinical trials does not ensure that later stage or larger scale clinical trials will be successful or that regulatory approval will be obtained. In addition, even if later stage clinical trials are successful, regulatory authorities may delay or decline approval of our product candidates. Regulatory authorities may disagree with our view of the data, require additional studies or disagree with our trial design or endpoints. Regulatory authorities may also fail to approve the facilities or the processes used to manufacture a product candidate, our dosing or delivery methods or companion devices. Regulatory authorities may grant marketing approval that is more restricted than anticipated. These restrictions may include limiting indications to narrow patient populations and the imposition of safety monitoring, educational requirements and risk evaluation and mitigation strategies. The occurrence of any of these events could result in significant costs and expenses, have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cause our stock price to decline or experience periods of volatility.. Even if we are able to successfully develop new products or indications, sales of new products or products with additional indications may not meet investor expectations. We may also make a strategic decision to discontinue development of a product or indication if, for example, we believe commercialization will be difficult relative to the standard of care or other opportunities in our pipeline.. Clinical trials and the development of biopharmaceutical products is a lengthy and complex process. If we fail to adequately manage our clinical activities, our clinical trials or potential regulatory approvals may be delayed or denied.. Conducting clinical trials is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process. Our ability to complete clinical trials in a timely fashion depends in large part on a number of key factors. These factors include protocol design, regulatory and institutional review board approval, patient enrollment rates and compliance with cGCP. If we or our third-party clinical trial providers or third-party CROs do not successfully carry out these clinical activities, our clinical trials or the potential regulatory approval of a product candidate may be delayed or be unsuccessful.. We have opened clinical sites and are enrolling patients in a number of countries where our experience is limited. In most cases, we use the services of third parties to carry out our clinical trial related activities and rely on such parties to accurately report their results. Our reliance on third parties for these activities may impact our ability to control the timing, conduct, expense and quality of our clinical trials. One CRO has responsibility for a substantial portion of our clinical trial related activities and reporting. If this CRO does not adequately perform, many of our trials may be affected. We may need to replace our CROs. Although we believe there are a number of other CROs we could engage to continue these activities, the replacement of an existing CRO may result in the delay of the affected trials or otherwise adversely affect our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals and commercialize our product candidates.. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by current and potential future healthcare reforms.. In the U.S., federal and state legislatures, health agencies and third-party payors continue to focus on containing the cost of health care. Legislative and regulatory proposals, enactments to reform health care insurance programs and increasing pressure from social sources could significantly influence the manner in which our products are prescribed and purchased. For example, provisions of the PPACA have resulted in changes in the way health care is paid for by both governmental and private insurers, including increased rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, annual fees and taxes on manufacturers of certain branded prescription drugs, the requirement that manufacturers participate in a discount program for certain outpatient drugs under Medicare Part D. 36. Table of Contents. and the expansion of the number of hospitals eligible for discounts under Section 340B of the PHSA. These changes have had and are expected to continue to have a significant impact on our business.. We may face uncertainties as a result of federal and administrative efforts to repeal, substantially modify or invalidate some or all of the provisions of the PPACA. There is no assurance that the PPACA, as currently enacted or as amended in the future, will not adversely affect our business and financial results, and we cannot predict how future federal or state legislative or administrative changes relating to healthcare reform will affect our business.. The administration has also indicated an intent to address prescription drug pricing and recent Congressional hearings have brought increased public attention to the costs of prescription drugs. These actions and the uncertainty about the future of the PPACA and healthcare laws may put downward pressure on pharmaceutical pricing and increase our regulatory burdens and operating costs.. There is also significant economic pressure on state budgets that results in states increasingly seeking to achieve budget savings through mechanisms that limit coverage or payment for our drugs. In recent years, some states have considered legislation and ballot initiatives that would control the prices of drugs, including laws to allow importation of pharmaceutical products from lower cost jurisdictions outside the U.S. and laws intended to impose price controls on state drug purchases. State Medicaid programs are increasingly requesting manufacturers to pay supplemental rebates and requiring prior authorization by the state program for use of any drug for which supplemental rebates are not being paid. Government efforts to reduce Medicaid expenses may lead to increased use of managed care organizations by Medicaid programs. This may result in managed care organizations influencing prescription decisions for a larger segment of the population and a corresponding constraint on prices and reimbursement for our products.. In the E.U. and some other international markets, the government provides health care at low cost to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices, patient eligibility or reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored health care system. Many countries have announced or implemented measures to reduce health care costs to limit their overall level of government expenditures. These measures vary by country and may include, among other things, patient access restrictions, suspensions on price increases, prospective and possibly retroactive price reductions and other recoupments and increased mandatory discounts or rebates, recoveries of past price increases and greater importation of drugs from lower-cost countries. These measures have negatively impacted our revenues, and may continue to adversely affect our revenues and results of operations in the future.. Manufacturing issues could substantially increase our costs, limit supply of our products and/or reduce our revenues.. The process of manufacturing our products is complex, highly regulated and subject to numerous risks, including:. • Risk of Product Loss. The manufacturing process for our products is extremely susceptible to product loss due to contamination, oxidation, equipment failure or improper installation or operation of equipment or vendor or operator error. Even minor deviations from normal manufacturing processes could result in reduced production yields, product defects and other supply disruptions. If microbial, viral or other contaminations are discovered in our products or manufacturing facilities, we may need to close our manufacturing facilities for an extended period of time to investigate and remediate the contaminant.. • Risks of Reliance on Third Parties and Single Source Providers. We rely on third-party suppliers and manufacturers for many aspects of our manufacturing process for our products and product candidates. In some cases, due to the unique manner in which our products are manufactured, we rely on single source providers of raw materials and manufacturing supplies. These third parties are independent entities subject to their own unique operational and financial risks that are outside of our control. These third parties may not perform their obligations in a timely and cost-effective manner or in compliance with applicable regulations, and they may be unable or unwilling to increase production capacity commensurate with demand for our existing or future products. Finding alternative providers could take a significant amount of time and involve significant expense due to the specialized nature of the services and the need to obtain regulatory approval of any significant changes to our suppliers or manufacturing methods. We cannot be certain that we could reach agreement with alternative providers or that the FDA or other regulatory authorities would approve our use of such alternatives.. 37. Table of Contents. • Global Bulk Supply Risks. We rely on our principal manufacturing facilities for the production of drug substance for our large molecule products and product candidates. Our global bulk supply of these products and product candidates depends on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of these facilities, which could be adversely affected by equipment failures, labor shortages, natural disasters, power failures and numerous other factors.. • Risks Relating to Compliance with cGMP. We and our third-party providers are generally required to maintain compliance with cGMP and other stringent requirements and are subject to inspections by the FDA and comparable agencies in other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. Any delay, interruption or other issues that arise in the manufacture, fill-finish, packaging or storage of our products as a result of a failure of our facilities or the facilities or operations of third parties to pass any regulatory agency inspection could significantly impair our ability to develop and commercialize our products. Significant noncompliance could also result in the imposition of monetary penalties or other civil or criminal sanctions and damage our reputation.. Any adverse developments affecting our manufacturing operations or the operations of our third-party suppliers and manufacturers may result in shipment delays, inventory shortages, lot failures, product withdrawals or recalls or other interruptions in the commercial supply of our products. We may also have to take inventory write-offs and incur other charges and expenses for products that fail to meet specifications, undertake costly remediation efforts or seek more costly manufacturing alternatives. Such developments could increase our manufacturing costs, cause us to lose revenues or market share as patients and physicians turn to competing therapeutics, diminish our profitability or damage our reputation.. A breakdown or breach of our technology systems could subject us to liability or interrupt the operation of our business.. We are increasingly dependent upon technology systems and data. Our computer systems continue to increase in multitude and complexity due to the growth in our business, making them potentially vulnerable to breakdown, malicious intrusion and random attack. Likewise, data privacy or security breaches by individuals authorized to access our technology systems or others may pose a risk that sensitive data, including intellectual property, trade secrets or personal information belonging to us, our patients, customers or other business partners, may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. Cyber-attacks are increasing in their frequency, sophistication and intensity, and are becoming increasingly difficult to detect. They are often carried out by motivated, well-resourced, skilled and persistent actors including nation states, organized crime groups, \"hacktivists\" and employees or contractors acting with malicious intent. Cyber-attacks could include the deployment of harmful malware and key loggers, ransomware, a denial-of-service attack, a malicious website, the use of social engineering and other means to affect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our technology systems and data. Our key business partners face similar risks and any security breach of their systems could adversely affect our security posture. While we continue to build and improve our systems and infrastructure and believe we have taken appropriate security measures to reduce these risks to our data and information technology systems, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business and operations and/or result in the loss of critical or sensitive information, which could result in financial, legal, business or reputational harm to us. In addition, our liability insurance may not be sufficient in type or amount to cover us against claims related to security breaches, cyber-attacks and other related breaches.. We depend on relationships with collaborators and other third parties for revenues, and for the development, regulatory approval, commercialization and marketing of certain of our products and product candidates, which are outside of our full control.. We rely on a number of significant collaborative and other third-party relationships for revenues, and for the development, regulatory approval, commercialization and marketing of certain of our products and product candidates. We also outsource to third parties certain aspects of our regulatory affairs and clinical development relating to our products and product candidates. Reliance on collaborative and other third-party relationships subjects us to a number of risks, including:. • we may be unable to control the resources our collaborators or third parties devote to our programs or products;. • disputes may arise under the agreement, including with respect to the achievement and payment of milestones or ownership of rights to technology developed with our collaborators or other third parties, and the underlying contract with our collaborators or other third parties may fail to provide significant protection or may fail to be effectively enforced if the collaborators or third parties fail to perform;. 38. Table of Contents. • the interests of our collaborators or third parties may not always be aligned with our interests, and such parties may not pursue regulatory approvals or market a product in the same manner or to the same extent that we would, which could adversely affect our revenues;. • third-party relationships and collaborations often require the parties to cooperate, and failure to do so effectively could adversely affect product sales, or the clinical development or regulatory approvals of products under joint control or could result in termination of the research, development or commercialization of product candidates or result in litigation or arbitration; and. • any failure on the part of our collaborators or other third parties to comply with applicable laws and regulatory requirements in the marketing, sale and maintenance of the marketing authorization of our products or to fulfill any responsibilities our collaborators or other third parties may have to protect and enforce any intellectual property rights underlying our products could have an adverse effect on our revenues as well as involve us in possible legal proceedings.. Given these risks, there is considerable uncertainty regarding the success of our current and future collaborative efforts. If these efforts fail, our product development or commercialization of new products could be delayed or revenues from products could decline.. Our business may be adversely affected if we do not successfully execute our growth initiatives.. We anticipate growth through internal development projects, commercial initiatives and external opportunities, which may include the acquisition, partnering and in-licensing of products, technologies and companies or the entry into strategic alliances and collaborations. While we believe we have a number of promising programs in our pipeline, failure of internal development projects to advance or difficulties in executing on our commercial initiatives could impact our current and future growth, resulting in additional reliance on external development opportunities for growth. The availability of high quality, cost-effective development opportunities is limited and competitive, and we are not certain that we will be able to identify candidates that we and our shareholders consider suitable or complete transactions on terms that are acceptable to us and our shareholders. We may fail to complete transactions for other reasons, including if we are unable to obtain desired financing on favorable terms, if at all. Even if we are able to successfully identify and complete acquisitions and other strategic alliances and collaborations, we may face unanticipated costs or liabilities in connection with the transaction or we may not be able to integrate them or take full advantage of them or otherwise realize the benefits that we expect.. Supporting our growth initiatives and the further development of our existing products and potential new products in our pipeline will require significant capital expenditures and management resources, including investments in research and development, sales and marketing, manufacturing capabilities and other areas of our business. If we do not successfully execute our growth initiatives, then our business and financial results may be adversely affected and we may incur asset impairment or restructuring charges.. Management and key personnel changes may disrupt our operations, and we may have difficulty retaining key personnel or attracting and retaining qualified replacements on a timely basis for management and other key personnel who may leave the Company.. We have experienced changes in management and other key personnel in critical functions across our organization, including our chief executive officer and our chief financial officer. Changes in management and other key personnel have the potential to disrupt our business, and any such disruption could adversely affect our operations, programs, growth, financial condition and results of operations. Further, new members of management may have different perspectives on programs and opportunities for our business, which may cause us to focus on new business opportunities or reduce or change emphasis on our existing business programs.. Our success is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management and key personnel in a highly competitive environment. Qualified individuals are in high demand, and we may incur significant costs to attract them, particularly at the executive level. We may face difficulty in attracting and retaining key talent for a number of reasons, such as management changes, the underperformance or discontinuation of one or more late stage programs or recruitment by competitors. We cannot assure you that we will be able to hire or retain the personnel necessary for our operations or that the loss of any such personnel will not have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. 39. Table of Contents. We are pursuing opportunities to expand our manufacturing capacity for future clinical and commercial requirements for product candidates, which will result in the incurrence of significant investment with no assurance that such investment will be recouped.. While we believe we currently have sufficient large scale manufacturing capacity to meet our near-term manufacturing requirements, it is probable that we would need additional large scale manufacturing capacity to support future clinical and commercial manufacturing requirements for product candidates in our pipeline, if such candidates are successful and approved. We are building a large-scale biologics manufacturing facility in Solothurn, Switzerland. Due to the long lead times necessary for the expansion of manufacturing capacity, we expect to make significant investments to build or obtain third-party contract manufacturers with no assurance that such investment will be recouped. If we are unable to adequately and timely manufacture and supply our products and product candidates or if we do not fully utilize our manufacturing facilities, our business may be harmed.. If we fail to comply with the extensive legal and regulatory requirements affecting the health care industry, we could face increased costs, penalties and a loss of business.. Our activities, and the activities of our collaborators, distributors and other third-party providers, are subject to extensive government regulation and oversight both in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions. The FDA and comparable agencies in other jurisdictions directly regulate many of our most critical business activities, including the conduct of preclinical and clinical studies, product manufacturing, advertising and promotion, product distribution, adverse event reporting and product risk management. Our interactions in the U.S. or abroad with physicians and other health care providers that prescribe or purchase our products are also subject to government regulation designed to prevent fraud and abuse in the sale and use of the products and place significant restrictions on the marketing practices of health care companies. Health care companies such as ours are facing heightened scrutiny of their relationships with health care providers from anti-corruption enforcement officials. In addition, health care companies such as ours have been the target of lawsuits and investigations alleging violations of government regulation, including claims asserting submission of incorrect pricing information, impermissible off-label promotion of pharmaceutical products, payments intended to influence the referral of health care business, submission of false claims for government reimbursement, antitrust violations or violations related to environmental matters. There is also enhanced scrutiny of company-sponsored patient assistance programs, including insurance premium and co-pay assistance programs and donations to third party charities that provide such assistance. If we, or our vendors or donation recipients, are deemed to fail to comply with relevant laws, regulations or government guidance in the operation of these programs, we could be subject to significant fines or penalties. Risks relating to compliance with laws and regulations may be heightened as we continue to expand our global operations and enter new therapeutic areas with different patient populations, which may have different product distribution methods, marketing programs or patient assistance programs from those we currently utilize or support.. Regulations governing the health care industry are subject to change, with possibly retroactive effect, including:. • new laws, regulations or judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations or judicial decisions, related to health care availability, pricing or marketing practices, compliance with wage and hour laws and other employment practices, method of delivery, payment for health care products and services, compliance with health information and data privacy and security laws and regulations, tracking and reporting payments and other transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals, extensive anti-bribery and anti-corruption prohibitions, product serialization and labeling requirements and used product take-back requirements;. • changes in the FDA and foreign regulatory approval processes that may delay or prevent the approval of new products and result in lost market opportunity;. • the hiring freeze implemented by the federal government in 2017, including at the FDA, could impact the review and potential approval of new products, which may adversely affect our business and financial condition;. • requirements that provide for increased transparency of clinical trial results and quality data, such as the EMA's clinical transparency policy, which could impact our ability to protect trade secrets and competitively-sensitive information contained in approval applications or could be misinterpreted leading to reputational damage, misperception or legal action which could harm our business; and. • changes in FDA and foreign regulations that may require additional safety monitoring, labeling changes, restrictions on product distribution or use, or other measures after the introduction of our products to market, which could increase our costs of doing business, adversely affect the future permitted uses of approved products or otherwise adversely affect the market for our products.. 40. Table of Contents. Violations of governmental regulation may be punishable by criminal and civil sanctions against us, including fines and civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, as well as against executives overseeing our business. In addition to penalties for violation of laws and regulations, we could be required to repay amounts we received from government payors, or pay additional rebates and interest if we are found to have miscalculated the pricing information we have submitted to the government. We cannot ensure you that our compliance controls, policies and procedures will in every instance protect us from acts committed by our employees, collaborators, partners or third-party providers that would violate the laws or regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate. Whether or not we have complied with the law, an investigation into alleged unlawful conduct could increase our expenses, damage our reputation, divert management time and attention and/or adversely affect our business.. Our effective tax rate fluctuates, and we may incur obligations in tax jurisdictions in excess of accrued amounts.. As a global biopharmaceutical company, we are subject to taxation in numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions.  As a result, our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various places that we operate. In preparing our financial statements, we estimate the amount of tax that will become payable in each of such places. Our effective tax rate, however, may be different than experienced in the past due to numerous factors, including changes in the mix of our profitability from country to country, the results of examinations and audits of our tax filings, adjustments to the value of our uncertain tax positions, changes in accounting for income taxes and changes in tax laws, including the 2017 Tax Act. Any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations.. In addition, our inability to secure or sustain acceptable arrangements with tax authorities and future changes in the tax laws, among other things, may result in tax obligations in excess of amounts accrued in our financial statements.. The 2017 Tax Act has resulted in significant changes to the U.S. corporate income tax system. These changes include a federal statutory rate reduction from 35% to 21%, the elimination or reduction of certain domestic deductions and credits and limitations on the deductibility of interest expense and executive compensation. The 2017 Tax Act also transitions international taxation from a worldwide system to a modified territorial system and includes base erosion prevention measures on non-U.S. earnings, which has the effect of subjecting certain earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to U.S. taxation as GILTI. These changes are effective beginning in 2018.. The 2017 Tax Act also includes the Transition Toll Tax, which is a one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax on accumulated foreign subsidiaries' previously untaxed foreign earnings. The Transition Toll Tax will be paid over an eight-year period, starting in 2018, and will not accrue interest.. Our preliminary estimate of the Transition Toll Tax and the remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities is subject to the finalization of management's analysis related to certain matters, such as developing interpretations of the provisions of the 2017 Tax Act, changes to certain estimates and amounts related to the earnings and profits of certain subsidiaries and the filing of our tax returns. U.S. Treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions interpreting the 2017 Tax Act may require further adjustments and changes in our estimates, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial conditions. The final determination of the Transition Toll Tax and the remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities will be completed as additional information becomes available, but no later than one year from the enactment of the 2017 Tax Act.. In addition, the adoption of some or all of the recommendations set forth in the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development's project on \"Base Erosion and Profit Shifting\" (BEPS) by tax authorities in the countries in which we operate, could negatively impact our effective tax rate. These recommendations focus on payments from affiliates in high tax jurisdictions to affiliates in lower tax jurisdictions and the activities that give rise to a taxable presence in a particular country.. Our sales and operations are subject to the risks of doing business internationally.. We are increasing our presence in international markets, particularly emerging markets, subjecting us to many risks that could adversely affect our business and revenues, such as:. • the inability to obtain necessary foreign regulatory or pricing approvals of products in a timely manner;. • uncertainties regarding the collectability of accounts receivable;. • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that may adversely impact our revenues and net income;. 41. Table of Contents. • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations;. • the imposition of governmental controls;. • less favorable intellectual property or other applicable laws;. • increasingly complex standards for complying with foreign laws and regulations that may differ substantially from country to country and may conflict with corresponding U.S. laws and regulations;. • the far-reaching anti-bribery and anti-corruption legislation in the U.K., including the Bribery Act, and elsewhere and escalation of investigations and prosecutions pursuant to such laws;. • the effects of the implementation of the U.K.'s decision to voluntarily depart from the E.U., known as Brexit;. • compliance with complex import and export control laws;. • restrictions on direct investments by foreign entities and trade restrictions;. • greater political or economic instability; and. • changes in tax laws and tariffs.. In addition, our international operations are subject to regulation under U.S. law. For example, the FCPA prohibits U.S. companies and their representatives from paying, offering to pay, promising to pay or authorizing the payment of anything of value to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or to otherwise obtain favorable treatment or influence a person working in an official capacity. In many countries, the health care professionals we regularly interact with may meet the FCPA's definition of a foreign government official. Failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including: possible delay in approval or refusal to approve a product; recalls, seizures or withdrawal of an approved product from the market; disruption in the supply or availability of our products or suspension of export or import privileges; the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions; the prosecution of executives overseeing our international operations; and damage to our reputation. Any significant impairment of our ability to sell products outside of the U.S. could adversely impact our business and financial results.. Our operating results are subject to significant fluctuations.. Our quarterly revenues, expenses and net income (loss) have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future due to the risks described in these \"Risk Factors\" as well as the timing of charges and expenses that we may take. We have recorded, or may be required to record, charges that include:. • the cost of restructurings or other initiatives to streamline our operations and reallocate resources;. • impairments with respect to investments, fixed assets and long-lived assets, including in-process R&D and other intangible assets;. • inventory write-downs for failed quality specifications, charges for excess or obsolete inventory and charges for inventory write downs relating to product suspensions, expirations or recalls;. • changes in the fair value of contingent consideration;. • bad debt expenses and increased bad debt reserves;. • outcomes of litigation and other legal or administrative proceedings, regulatory matters and tax matters;. • milestone payments under license and collaboration agreements; and. • payments in connection with acquisitions and other business development activities.. 42. Table of Contents. Our revenues are also subject to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations due to the global nature of our operations. Although we have foreign currency forward contracts to hedge specific forecasted transactions denominated in foreign currencies, our efforts to mitigate the impact of fluctuating currency exchange rates may not be successful. As a result, currency fluctuations among our reporting currency, the U.S. dollar, and the other currencies in which we do business will affect our operating results, often in unpredictable ways. Our net income may also fluctuate due to the impact of charges we may be required to take with respect to foreign currency hedge transactions. In particular, we may incur higher than expected charges from hedge ineffectiveness or from the termination of a hedge relationship.. Our operating results during any one period do not necessarily suggest the anticipated results of future periods.. Our investment in Samsung Bioepis, and our success in commercializing biosimilars developed by Samsung Bioepis, is subject to risks and uncertainties inherent in the development, manufacture and commercialization of biosimilars.. Our investment in Samsung Bioepis, and our success in commercializing biosimilars developed by Samsung Bioepis, is subject to a number of risks, including:. • Reliance on Third Parties. We are dependent on the efforts of Samsung Bioepis and other third parties over whom we have limited or no control in the development and manufacturing of biosimilars products. If Samsung Bioepis or such other third parties fail to perform successfully, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of our investment in Samsung Bioepis;. • Regulatory Compliance. Biosimilar products may face regulatory hurdles or delays due to the evolving and uncertain regulatory and commercial pathway of biosimilars products in certain jurisdictions;. • Intellectual Property and Regulatory Challenges. Biosimilar products may face extensive patent clearances, patent infringement litigation, injunctions or regulatory challenges, which could prevent the commercial launch of a product or delay it for many years;. • Failure to Gain Market and Patient Acceptance. Market success of biosimilar products will be adversely affected if patients, physicians and/or payors do not accept biosimilar products as safe and efficacious products offering a more competitive price or other benefit over existing therapies;. • Ability to Provide Adequate Supply. Manufacturing biosimilars is complex. If we encounter any manufacturing or supply chain difficulties, we may be unable to meet higher than anticipated demand; and. • Competitive Challenges. Biosimilar products face significant competition, including from innovator products and from biosimilar products offered by other companies. In some jurisdictions, local tendering processes may restrict biosimilar products from being marketed and sold in those jurisdictions. The number of competitors in a jurisdiction, the timing of approval and the ability to market biosimilar products successfully in a timely and cost-effective matter are additional factors that may impact our success and/or the success of Samsung Bioepis in this business area.. Our investments in properties may not be fully realized.. We own or lease real estate primarily consisting of buildings that contain research laboratories, office space and manufacturing operations. For strategic or other operational reasons, we may decide to consolidate or co-locate certain aspects of our business operations or dispose of one or more of our properties, some of which may be located in markets that are experiencing high vacancy rates and decreasing property values. If we determine that the fair value of any of our owned properties is lower than their book value we may not realize the full investment in these properties and incur significant impairment charges or additional depreciation when the expected useful lives of certain assets have been shortened due to the anticipated closing of facilities. If we decide to fully or partially vacate a leased property, we may incur significant cost, including facility closing costs, employee separation and retention expenses, lease termination fees, rent expense in excess of sublease income and impairment of leasehold improvements and accelerated depreciation of assets. Any of these events may have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. 43. Table of Contents. Our portfolio of marketable securities is subject to market, interest and credit risk that may reduce its value.. We maintain a portfolio of marketable securities for investment of our cash. Changes in the value of our portfolio of marketable securities could adversely affect our earnings. In particular, the value of our investments may decline due to increases in interest rates, downgrades of the bonds and other securities included in our portfolio, instability in the global financial markets that reduces the liquidity of securities included in our portfolio, declines in the value of collateral underlying the securities included in our portfolio and other factors. Each of these events may cause us to record charges to reduce the carrying value of our investment portfolio or sell investments for less than our acquisition cost. Although we attempt to mitigate these risks through diversification of our investments and continuous monitoring of our portfolio's overall risk profile, the value of our investments may nevertheless decline.. There can be no assurance that we will continue to repurchase stock or that we will repurchase stock at favorable prices.. From time to time our Board of Directors authorizes stock repurchase programs, including most recently a program to repurchase up to $5.0 billion of our common stock, which was authorized by our Board of Directors in July 2016 (2016 Share Repurchase Program). The amount and timing of stock repurchases are subject to capital availability and our determination that stock repurchases are in the best interest of our shareholders and are in compliance with all respective laws and our agreements applicable to the repurchase of stock. Our ability to repurchase stock will depend upon, among other factors, our cash balances and potential future capital requirements for strategic transactions, our results of operations, our financial condition and other factors beyond our control that we may deem relevant. A reduction in, or the completion or expiration of, our stock repurchase programs could have a negative effect on our stock price. We can provide no assurance that we will repurchase stock at favorable prices, if at all.. We may not be able to access the capital and credit markets on terms that are favorable to us.. We may seek access to the capital and credit markets to supplement our existing funds and cash generated from operations for working capital, capital expenditure and debt service requirements and other business initiatives. The capital and credit markets have experienced extreme volatility and disruption in the past, which leads to uncertainty and liquidity issues for both borrowers and investors. In the event of adverse capital and credit market conditions, we may be unable to obtain capital or credit market financing on favorable terms. Changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized credit rating agencies could also adversely affect our cost of financing and the market price of our securities.. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business.. Our indebtedness, together with our significant contingent liabilities, including milestone and royalty payment obligations, could have important consequences to our business; for example, such obligations could:. • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • limit our ability to access capital markets and incur additional debt in the future;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes, including business development efforts, research and development and mergers and acquisitions; and. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt.. Our business involves environmental risks, which include the cost of compliance and the risk of contamination or injury.. Our business and the business of several of our strategic partners involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals, biologics and radioactive compounds. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with state, federal and foreign standards, there will always be the risk of accidental contamination or injury. If we were to become liable for an accident, or if we were to suffer an extended facility shutdown, we could incur significant costs, damages and penalties that could harm our business. Manufacturing of our products and product candidates also requires permits from government agencies for water supply and wastewater discharge. If we do not obtain appropriate permits, including permits for sufficient quantities of water and wastewater, we could incur significant costs and limits on our manufacturing volumes that could harm our business.. 44. Table of Contents. The illegal distribution and sale by third parties of counterfeit versions of our products or stolen products could have a negative impact on our reputation and business.. Third parties might illegally distribute and sell counterfeit or unfit versions of our products, which do not meet our rigorous manufacturing, distribution and testing standards. A patient who receives a counterfeit or unfit drug may be at risk for a number of dangerous health consequences. Our reputation and business could suffer harm as a result of counterfeit or unfit drugs sold under our brand name. Stolen inventory that is not properly stored or sold through unauthorized channels could adversely impact patient safety, our reputation and our business. In addition, inventory that is stolen from warehouses, plants or while in-transit, and that is subsequently improperly stored and sold through unauthorized channels, could adversely impact patient safety, our reputation and our business.. The increasing use of social media platforms presents new risks and challenges.. Social media is increasingly being used to communicate about our products and the diseases our therapies are designed to treat. Social media practices in the biopharmaceutical industry continue to evolve and regulations relating to such use are not always clear. This evolution creates uncertainty and risk of noncompliance with regulations applicable to our business. For example, patients may use social media channels to comment on the effectiveness of a product or to report an alleged adverse event. When such disclosures occur, there is a risk that we fail to monitor and comply with applicable adverse event reporting obligations or we may not be able to defend the company or the public's legitimate interests in the face of the political and market pressures generated by social media due to restrictions on what we may say about our products. There is also a risk of inappropriate disclosure of sensitive information or negative or inaccurate posts or comments about us on any social networking website. If any of these events were to occur or we otherwise fail to comply with applicable regulations, we could incur liability, face overly restrictive regulatory actions or incur other harm to our business.. Some of our collaboration agreements contain change in control provisions that may discourage a third party from attempting to acquire us.. Some of our collaboration agreements include change in control provisions that could reduce the potential acquisition price an acquirer is willing to pay or discourage a takeover attempt that could be viewed as beneficial to shareholders. Upon a change in control, some of these provisions could trigger reduced milestone, profit or royalty payments to us or give our collaboration partner rights to terminate our collaboration agreement, acquire operational control or force the purchase or sale of the programs that are the subject of the collaboration.. We may incur operational difficulties or be exposed to claims and liabilities as a result of the spin-off of our hemophilia business.. On February 1, 2017, we distributed all of the then outstanding shares of Bioverativ common stock to Biogen shareholders in connection with the spin-off of our hemophilia business.  In connection with the distribution, we entered into a separation and distribution agreement and various other agreements (including a transition services agreement, a tax matters agreement, a manufacturing and supply agreement, an employee matters agreement, an intellectual property matters agreement and certain other commercial agreements). These agreements govern the separation and distribution and the relationship between us and Bioverativ going forward, including with respect to potential tax-related losses associated with the separation and distribution. They also provide for the performance of services by each company for the benefit of the other for a period of time (including under the manufacturing and supply agreement pursuant to which we will manufacture and supply certain products and materials to Bioverativ).. The spin-off of our hemophilia business as an independent public company is intended to qualify for tax-free treatment to Biogen and its shareholders under the Internal Revenue Code. Completion of the spin-off was conditioned upon, among other things, our receipt of a favorable opinion from our tax advisors with respect to the tax-free nature of the transaction. The opinion is not binding on the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the IRS or the courts will not challenge the qualification of the spin-off as a tax-free transaction or that any such challenge would not prevail. If the spin-off is determined to be taxable, the full financial benefits expected to result from the separation may not be achieved and/or Biogen and its shareholders could incur significant tax liabilities, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and the value of our stock could be adversely impacted.. Bioverativ has agreed to indemnify us for certain potential liabilities that may arise, but we cannot guarantee that Bioverativ will be able to satisfy its indemnification obligations. The separation and distribution agreement provides for indemnification obligations designed to make Bioverativ financially responsible for many liabilities that may exist relating to its business activities, whether incurred prior to or after the distribution, including any pending or future litigation. It is possible that a court would disregard the allocation agreed to between us and Bioverativ and. 45. Table of Contents. require us to assume responsibility for obligations allocated to Bioverativ. Third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of these liabilities or obligations, and the indemnity rights we have under the separation and distribution agreement may not be sufficient to fully cover all of these liabilities and obligations. Even if we are successful in obtaining indemnification, we may have to bear costs temporarily. In addition, our indemnity obligations to Bioverativ may be significant. These risks could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. The spin-off of Bioverativ continues to involve a number of risks, including, among other things, the indemnification risks described above. Certain of the agreements described above provide for the performance of services by each company for the benefit of the other for a period of time. If Bioverativ is unable to satisfy its obligations under these agreements, including its indemnification obligations, we could incur losses. These arrangements could also lead to disputes over rights to certain shared property and over the allocation of costs and revenues for products and operations. Our inability to effectively manage the separation activities and related events could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We may not achieve some or all of the anticipated benefits of the spin-off of our hemophilia business, which may adversely affect our business.. We may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits expected to result from the spin-off of our hemophilia business, or such benefits may not occur at all. If we fail to achieve some or all of the expected benefits of the spin-off, our business, financial condition, results of operations and the value of our stock could be adversely impacted."
