[1] "ITEM 1A.     RISK FACTORS. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information contained in this annual report, before deciding to invest in our common stock. If any of the following risks materialize, our business, financial condition, results of operation and prospects will likely be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment.. 7. Risks Related to Our Business. The majority of our net sales come from a relatively small number of customers and a limited number of market sectors; if we lose any of these customers or if there are problems in those market sectors, our net sales and operating results could decline significantly.. In each of the years 2017 and 2016, we derived approximately 12% of our revenue from our relationship with one distributor of our products. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of revenue in 2017 or 2016. Our principal customers may vary from period to period, and our principal customers may not continue to purchase products from us at current levels, or at all. Significant reductions in net sales to any of these customers or our failure to make appropriate choices to the customers we serve, could seriously harm our business. In addition, we focus our sales to customers in only a few market sectors. Each of these sectors is subject to macroeconomic conditions as well as trends and conditions that are sector specific. Shifts in the performance of a sector served by us, as well as the economic, business and/or regulatory conditions that affect the sector, or our failure to choose appropriate sectors can particularly impact us. Any weakness in the market sectors in which our customers are concentrated could affect our business and results of operations.. We have a history of losses and may never achieve or maintain profitability.. We have incurred annual consolidated operating losses since inception and may continue to incur operating losses. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, we had consolidated net losses attributable to BioLife of $2.5 million and $6.9 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2017, our consolidated accumulated deficit was approximately $74.0 million. We may not be able to successfully achieve or sustain profitability. Successful transition to profitable operations is dependent upon achieving a level of revenues adequate to support our cost structure.. We may need additional capital to reach and maintain a sustainable level of positive cash flow and if we raise such additional capital through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, your ownership will be diluted, and equity securities issued may have rights, preferences and privileges superior to the shares of common stock.. If we are unable to achieve profitability sufficient to permit us to fund our operations and other planned actions, we may be required to raise additional capital. There can be no assurance that such capital would be available on favorable terms, or at all. If we raise additional capital through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership held by existing stockholders may be reduced, and the market price of our common stock could fall due to an increased number of shares available for sale in the market. Further, our board has the authority to establish the designation of additional shares of preferred stock that may be convertible into common stock without any action by our stockholders, and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of such shares. Any such additional shares of preferred stock may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of outstanding common stock, and the issuance and conversion of any such preferred stock would further dilute the percentage ownership of our stockholders. Debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants, which may limit our operating flexibility with respect to certain business matters. If we are unable to secure additional capital as circumstances require, we may not be able to fund our planned activities or continue our operations.. There is uncertainty surrounding our continued ability to successfully commercialize our HypoThermosol® FRS and CryoStor® biopreservation media products.. Our growth depends on our continued ability to successfully develop, commercialize and market our HypoThermosol® FRS, CryoStor®, and BloodStor® biopreservation media products. Even in markets that do not require us to obtain regulatory approvals, our products will not be used unless they present an attractive alternative to competitive products and the benefits and cost savings achieved through their use outweigh the cost of our products. If we are unable to develop and sustain a market for our products, this will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to continue and grow our business.. The success of our HypoThermosol® FRS and CryoStor® biopreservation media products is dependent, in part, on successful customer regulatory approvals and commercial success of new regenerative medicine products and therapies.. Our HypoThermosol® FRS and CryoStor® biopreservation media products are marketed to biotechnology companies and research institutions engaged in research and development of cell, gene and tissue engineering therapies. The end-products or therapies developed by these biotechnology companies and research institutions are subject to substantial regulatory oversight by the FDA and other regulatory bodies, and many of these therapies are years away from commercialization. Thus demand, if any, for HypoThermosol® FRS and CryoStor® is expected to be limited for several years. Failure of the end-products that use our biopreservation media products to receive regulatory approvals and be successfully commercialized will have an adverse effect in the demand for our products.. We face significant competition.. The life sciences industry is highly competitive. We anticipate that we will continue to face increased competition as existing companies develop new or improved products and as new companies enter the market with new technologies. Many of our competitors are significantly larger than us and have greater financial, technical, research, marketing, sales, distribution and other resources than us. There can be no assurance that our competitors will not succeed in developing or marketing technologies and products that are more effective or commercially attractive than any that are being developed or marketed by us, or that such competitors will not succeed in obtaining regulatory approval, or introducing or commercializing any such products, prior to us. Such developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, even if we can compete successfully, there can be no assurance that we could do so in a profitable manner.. 8. We are dependent on outside suppliers for all our manufacturing supplies.. We rely on outside suppliers for all our manufacturing supplies, parts and components. Although we believe we could develop alternative sources of supply for most of these components within a reasonable period of time, there can be no assurance that, in the future, our current or alternative sources will be able to meet all our demands on a timely basis. Unavailability of necessary components could require us to re-engineer our products to accommodate available substitutions, which could increase costs to us and/or have a material adverse effect on manufacturing schedules, products performance and market acceptance. In addition, an uncorrected defect or supplier’s variation in a component or raw material, either unknown to us or incompatible with our manufacturing process, could harm our ability to manufacture products. We might not be able to find a sufficient alternative supplier in a reasonable amount of time, or on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we fail to obtain a supplier for the components of our products, our operations could be disrupted.. Our investment in SAVSU may be adversely impacted by the failure of SAVSU.. We own a minority equity interest in SAVSU and we have limited control over management decisions. Accordingly, our ability to profit from our equity interest in SAVSU will be largely dependent on the current management of SAVSU. SAVSU faces all the inherent risks associated with the development, marketing and operation of a new product line. In addition, we face the risk that SAVSU will not be able to fulfill product orders based on our sales effort. If SAVSU fails to fulfill its obligations due to strategic business interests, financial condition or otherwise, SAVSU may be required to raise additional capital, which will dilute our ownership, or SAVSU may not be able to continue its operations, in which case we may suffer losses.. Our success will depend on our ability to attract and retain key personnel.. In order to execute our business plan, we must attract, retain and motivate highly qualified managerial, scientific, manufacturing, and sales personnel. If we fail to attract and retain skilled scientific and sales personnel, our sales efforts will be hindered. Our future success depends to a significant degree upon the continued services of key scientific and technical personnel. If we do not attract and retain qualified personnel, we will not be able to achieve our growth objectives.. If we were to be successfully sued related to our products, operations or other activities, we could face substantial liabilities that may exceed our resources.. We may be held liable if any of our products or operations cause injury or death. We are subject to certain litigation described under “Item 3. Legal Proceedings”, and may also face other types of litigation, including those related to alleged breaches of contract or applicable laws or of our duties to third parties. We currently maintain commercial general and umbrella liability policies and a product liability insurance policy. When necessary for our products, we intend to obtain additional product liability insurance. Insurance coverage may be prohibitively expensive, may not fully cover potential liabilities or may not be available in the future. Inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our products. If we were to be sued for any injury caused by or associated with our products or operations or in connection with other matters, or if our existing litigation proceeds, the litigation could consume substantial time and attention of our management, and the resulting liability could have a material adverse effect on us.. Regulatory or other difficulties in manufacturing could have an adverse effect upon our expenses and our product revenues.. We currently manufacture all our biopreservation media products. The manufacture of these products is difficult, complex and highly regulated. To support our current and prospective clinical customers, we intend to comply with cGMP in the manufacture of our products. Our ability to adequately and in a timely manner manufacture and supply our biopreservation media products is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of our facilities and those of third-parties producing supplies upon which we rely in our manufacturing. The manufacture of our products may be impacted by:. ·availability or contamination of raw materials and components used in the manufacturing process, particularly those for which we have no other source or supplier;. ·the ongoing capacity of our facilities;. ·our ability to comply with regulatory requirements, including our ability to comply with cGMP;. ·inclement weather and natural disasters;. ·changes in forecasts of future demand for product components;. ·potential facility contamination by microorganisms or viruses;. ·updating of manufacturing specifications; and. ·product quality success rates and yields.. 9. If efficient manufacture and supply of our products is interrupted, we may experience delayed shipments or supply constraints. If we are at any time unable to provide an uninterrupted supply of our products to customers, our customers may be unable to supply their end-products incorporating our products to their patients and other customers, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales and results of operations.. We are registered with FDA as a contract manufacturer. Our contract-manufacturing customers may require us to comply with cGMP requirements and may audit our compliance with cGMP standards. If a customer finds us to be out of compliance with cGMP standards, this could have a material adverse effect on our ability to retain and attract contract manufacturing customers.. If we become subject to additional regulatory requirements, the manufacture and sale of our products may be delayed or prevented, or we may become subject to increased expenses.. None of our products are subject to FDA or other regulatory approvals. In particular, we are not required to sponsor formal prospective, controlled clinical-trials to establish safety and efficacy. However, there can be no assurance that we will not be required to obtain approval from the FDA, or foreign regulatory authorities, as applicable, prior to marketing any of our products in the future. Any such requirements could delay or prevent the sale of our products or may subject us to additional expenses.. We may be adversely affected if we violate privacy and security regulations or suffer a data breach.. Federal and state laws protect the confidentiality of certain patient health information, including patient records, and restrict the unauthorized use and disclosure of such information. In particular, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) and its implementing privacy, security, and breach notification regulations (collectively, HIPAA Standards), govern the use and disclosure of protected health information by “covered entities,” which are healthcare providers that submit electronic claims, health plans and healthcare clearinghouses, as well as their “business associates” and their subcontractors. Our employee health benefit plans are considered “covered entities” and, therefore, are subject to the HIPAA Standards.. We may be adversely affected if our internal control over financial reporting fails or is circumvented.. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies. We are required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to report annually on our internal control over financial reporting, but as a smaller reporting company we are exempt from the requirement to have our independent accountants attest to our internal control over financial reporting. If it were to be determined that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, such shortcoming could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results and the price of our common stock could be negatively affected. This reporting requirement could also make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. Any system of internal controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulation concerning control and procedures could have a material effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. Any of these events could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could negatively affect the market price of our shares, increase the volatility of our stock price and adversely affect our ability to raise additional funding. The effect of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board and our board committees and as executive officers.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. Expiration of our patents may subject us to increased competition and reduce or eliminate our opportunity to generate product revenue.. The patents for our products have varying expiration dates and, when these patents expire, we may be subject to increased competition and we may not be able to recover our development costs. In some of the larger economic territories, such as the United States and Europe, patent term extension/restoration may be available. We cannot, however, be certain that an extension will be granted or, if granted, what the applicable time or the scope of patent protection afforded during any extended period will be. If we are unable to obtain patent term extension/restoration or some other exclusivity, we could be subject to increased competition and our opportunity to establish or maintain product revenue could be substantially reduced or eliminated. Furthermore, we may not have sufficient time to recover our development costs prior to the expiration of our U.S. and non-U.S. patents.. US Patent 6,045,990, which provides patent coverage relating to HypoThermosol® FRS, will expire in April 2019, and its foreign patent counterparts will expire in July 2019, reducing the barrier to entry for competition for this product, which may materially affect the pricing of HypoThermosol® FRS and our ability to retain market share. We may file extensions for this patent. We hold various trade secrets and other confidential know-how related to the manufacturing and testing of our products which limit our exposure upon the expiration of US patent 6,045,990.. 10. Our proprietary rights may not adequately protect our technologies and products.. Our commercial success will depend on our ability to obtain patents and/or regulatory exclusivity and maintain adequate protection for our technologies and products in the United States and other countries. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies and products are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets.. We intend to apply for additional patents covering both our technologies and products, as we deem appropriate. We may, however, fail to apply for patents on important technologies or products in a timely fashion, if at all. Our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products and technologies. In addition, the patent positions of life science industry companies are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. As a result, the validity and enforceability of our patents cannot be predicted with certainty. In addition, we cannot guarantee that:. ·we were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our issued patents and pending patent applications;. ·we were the first to file patent applications for these inventions;. ·others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies;. ·any of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents;. ·any of our patents will be valid or enforceable;. ·any patents issued to us will provide us with any competitive advantages, or will not be challenged by third parties; and. ·we will develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable, or the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our business.. The actual protection afforded by a patent varies on a product-by-product basis, from country to country and depends on many factors, including the type of patent, the scope of its coverage, the availability of regulatory related extensions, the availability of legal remedies in a particular country and the validity and enforceability of the patents. Our ability to maintain and solidify our proprietary position for our products will depend on our success in obtaining effective claims and enforcing those claims once granted. Our issued patents and those that may be issued in the future, or those licensed to us, may be challenged, invalidated, unenforceable or circumvented, and the rights granted under any issued patents may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar products. We also rely on trade secrets to protect some of our technology, especially where it is believed that patent protection is inappropriate or unobtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to maintain. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors or scientific and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our proprietary information to competitors. Enforcement of claims that a third party has illegally obtained and is using trade secrets is expensive, time consuming and uncertain. In addition, non-U.S. courts are sometimes less willing than U.S. courts to protect trade secrets. If our competitors independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how, we would not be able to assert our trade secrets against them and our business could be harmed.. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights throughout the world.. Filing, prosecuting and defending patents on all our products in every jurisdiction would be prohibitively expensive. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection to develop their own products. These products may compete with our products and may not be covered by any patent claims or other intellectual property rights.. The laws of some non-U.S. countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to biotechnology, which could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial cost and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business.. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitors may take advantage of our ideas and compete directly against us.. Our success will depend to a significant degree on our ability to secure and protect intellectual property rights and enforce patent and trademark protections relating to our technology. While we believe that the protection of patents and trademarks is important to our business, we also rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret, nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements, know-how and continuing technological innovation to maintain our competitive position. From time to time, litigation may be advisable to protect our intellectual property position. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. Any litigation in this regard could be costly, and it is possible that we will not have sufficient resources to fully pursue litigation or to protect our intellectual property rights. This could result in the rejection or invalidation of our existing and future patents. Any adverse outcome in litigation relating to the validity of our patents, or any failure to pursue litigation or otherwise to protect our patent position, could materially harm our business and financial condition. In addition, confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, customers, and key vendors may not prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technology. It is possible that these agreements will be breached or that they will not be enforceable in every instance, and that we will not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Enforcement of these agreements may be costly and time consuming. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States.. 11. We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights and we may be unable to protect our rights to, or use of, our technology.. If we choose to go to court to stop someone else from using the inventions claimed in our patents or our licensed patents, that individual or company has the right to ask the court to rule that these patents are invalid and/or should not be enforced against that third party. These lawsuits are expensive and would consume time and other resources even if we were successful in stopping the infringement of these patents. In addition, there is a risk that the court will decide that these patents are invalid or unenforceable and that we do not have the right to stop the other party from using the inventions. There is also the risk that, even if the validity or enforceability of these patents is upheld, the court will refuse to stop the other party on the grounds that such other party’s activities do not infringe our rights.. If we wish to use the technology claimed in issued and unexpired patents owned by others, we will need to obtain a license from the owner, enter into litigation to challenge the validity or enforceability of the patents or incur the risk of litigation in the event that the owner asserts that we infringed its patents. The failure to obtain a license to technology or the failure to challenge an issued patent that we may require to discover, develop or commercialize our products may have a material adverse effect on us.. If a third-party asserts that we infringed its patents or other proprietary rights, we could face a number of risks that could seriously harm our results of operations, financial condition and competitive position, including:. ·patent infringement and other intellectual property claims, which would be costly and time consuming to defend, whether or not the claims have merit, and which could delay a product and divert management’s attention from our business;. ·substantial damages for past infringement, which we may have to pay if a court determines that our product or technologies infringe a competitor’s patent or other proprietary rights;. ·a court prohibiting us from selling or licensing our technologies unless the third party licenses its patents or other proprietary rights to us on commercially reasonable terms, which it is not required to do; and. ·if a license is available from a third party, we may have to pay substantial royalties or lump-sum payments or grant cross licenses to our patents or other proprietary rights to obtain that license.. The biotechnology industry has produced a proliferation of patents, and it is not always clear to industry participants, including us, which patents cover various types of products or methods of use. The coverage of patents is subject to interpretation by the courts, and the interpretation is not always uniform. If we are sued for patent infringement, we would need to demonstrate that our products or methods of use either do not infringe the patent claims of the relevant patent, and/or that the patent claims are invalid, and/or that the patent is unenforceable, and we may not be able to do this. Proving invalidity, in particular, is difficult since it requires a showing of clear and convincing evidence to overcome the presumption of validity enjoyed by issued patents.. U.S. patent laws as well as the laws of some foreign jurisdictions provide for provisional rights in published patent applications beginning on the date of publication, including the right to obtain reasonable royalties, if a patent subsequently issues and certain other conditions are met.. Because some patent applications in the United States may be maintained in secrecy until the patents are issued, because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, and because publications in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that others have not filed patent applications for technology covered by our issued patents or our pending applications, or that we were the first to invent the technology.. Patent applications filed by third parties that cover technology similar to ours may have priority over our patent applications and could further require us to obtain rights to issued patents covering such technologies. If another party files a U.S. patent application on an invention similar to ours, we may elect to participate in or be drawn into an interference proceeding declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention in the United States. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial, and it is possible that such efforts would be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of our U.S. patent position with respect to such inventions. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise the funds necessary to continue our operations. We cannot predict whether third parties will assert these claims against us, or whether those claims will harm our business. If we are forced to defend against these claims, whether they are with or without any merit and whether they are resolved in favor of or against us, we may face costly litigation and diversion of management’s attention and resources. As a result of these disputes, we may have to develop costly non-infringing technology, or enter into licensing agreements. These agreements, if necessary, may be unavailable on terms acceptable to us, if at all, which could seriously harm our business or financial condition.. Risks Related to our Common Stock and Other Securities. The market for our common stock is limited and our stock price is volatile.. Our common stock, traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market, has historically traded at low average daily volumes, resulting in a limited market for the purchase and sale of our common stock.. The market prices of many publicly traded companies, including emerging companies in the life sciences industry, have been, and can be expected to be, highly volatile. The future market price of our common stock could be significantly impacted by numerous factors, including, but not limited to:. ·Future sales of our common stock or other fundraising events;. ·Sales of our common stock by existing shareholders;. ·Changes in our capital structure, including stock splits or reverse stock splits;. ·Announcements of technological innovations for new commercial products by our present or potential competitors;. ·Developments concerning proprietary rights;. ·Adverse results in our field or with clinical tests of our products in customer applications;. ·Adverse litigation;. ·Unfavorable legislation or regulatory decisions;. ·Public concerns regarding our products;. ·Variations in quarterly operating results;. ·General trends in the health care industry; and. ·Other factors outside of our control.. 12. A significant percentage of our outstanding common stock is held by two stockholders, and these stockholders therefore have significant influence on us and our corporate actions.. As of December 31, 2017, two of our existing stockholders, Taurus4757 GmbH (“Taurus”) and WAVI Holdings AG (“WAVI”), beneficially owned, collectively, approximately 57.1% of our outstanding shares. Taurus and WAVI were previously secured lenders to our Company, and the chairman of Taurus, Mr. Girschweiler, is a member of our board. Accordingly, these stockholders have had, and will continue to have, significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. In addition, without the consent of these stockholders, we could be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us.. We may be at risk of securities class action litigation.. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following an extraordinary corporate action or a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because our stock price and those of other biotechnology and life sciences companies have experienced significant stock price volatility in recent years. If we face such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could harm our business. We do maintain insurance, but the coverage may not be sufficient and may not be available in all instances.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make a third-party acquisition of us difficult.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that stockholders may consider to be in their best interests. These provisions include the ability of our board to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval and to amend our bylaws without stockholder approval. Further, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless certain specific requirements are met as set forth in Section 203. Collectively, these provisions could make a third-party acquisition of us difficult or could discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock.. Future sales or the potential for future sales of our securities in the public markets may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline and could impair our ability to raise capital through future equity offerings.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other securities in the public markets, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock or other securities to decline and could materially impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional securities. We have a substantial number of warrants exercisable to purchase shares of common stock outstanding. Many of the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of those warrants will be freely tradable. We have agreed to use our best efforts to keep a registration statement registering the issuance and resale of many such shares effective during the term of the warrants. In addition, we have a significant number of shares of our common stock reserved for issuance pursuant to other outstanding options and rights. If such shares are issued upon exercise of options, warrants or other rights, or if we issue additional securities in a public offering or a private placement, such sales or any resales of such securities could further adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The sale of a large number of shares of our common stock or other securities also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at the prices that we deem appropriate.. We do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends on our common stock.. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not plan to pay any cash dividends in the near future. Our current policy is to retain all funds and earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business."
