[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk.  You should carefully consider the following risk factors together with all of the other information included in this Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently consider to be immaterial could also adversely affect us. If any of the following risks come to fruition, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and future growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In these circumstances, the market price of our stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Business and Operations. Although our financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, our management and independent auditors in their report accompanying our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017, believe that our recurring losses from operations and other factors have raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern as of December 31, 2017.. Our audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 were prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The going concern basis assumes that we will continue in operation for the next 12 months and will be able to realize our assets and discharge our liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business. Thus, our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might be necessary if we are unable to continue as a going concern. Our recurring losses, negative cash flow, potential need for additional capital and the uncertainties surrounding our ability to raise such funding, raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. In order for us to continue operations beyond the next 12 months and be able to discharge our liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business, we must sell our products directly to end-users and through distributors, establish profitable operations through increased sales, decrease expenses, generate cash from operations or raise additional funds when needed. We intend to improve our financial condition and ultimately improve our financial results by increasing revenues through expansion of our product offerings, continuing to expand and develop our field sales force and distributor relationships both domestically and internationally, forming strategic arrangements within the dental and medical industries, educating dental and medical patients as to the benefits of our advanced medical technologies, and reducing expenses. If we are unable to increase sales, reduce expenses or raise sufficient additional capital we may be unable to continue to fund our operations, develop our products, realize value from our assets, or discharge our liabilities in the normal course of business. If we become unable to continue as a going concern, we could have to liquidate our assets, and potentially realize significantly less than the values at which they are carried on our financial statements, and stockholders could lose all or part of their investment in our common stock.. We have experienced net losses for each of the past three years and we could experience additional losses and have difficulty achieving profitability in the future.. We had an accumulated deficit of approximately $195.6 million at December 31, 2017. We recorded net losses of approximately $16.9 million, $15.4 million, and $20.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. In order to achieve profitability, we must increase net revenue through new sales and control our costs. Failure to increase our net revenue and decrease our costs could cause our stock price to decline and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We are vulnerable to continued global economic uncertainty and volatility in financial markets.. Our business is highly sensitive to changes in general economic conditions as a seller of capital equipment to end users in dental professional practices. Financial markets inside the United States and internationally have experienced extreme disruption in recent times, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, and declining valuations of investments. We believe these disruptions are likely to have an ongoing adverse effect on the world economy. A continuing economic downturn and financial market disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, including by:. •  reducing demand for our products and services, increasing order cancellations and resulting in longer sales cycles and slower adoption of new technologies;. •  increasing the difficulty of collecting accounts receivable and the risk of excess and obsolete inventories;. 20. •  increasing price competition in our served markets; and. •  resulting in supply interruptions, which could disrupt our ability to produce our products.. We could need to raise additional capital in the future, and if we are unable to secure adequate funds on terms acceptable to us, we could be unable to execute our business plan.. To remain competitive, we must continue to make significant investments in the development of our products, the expansion of our sales and marketing activities, and the expansion of our operating and management infrastructure as we increase sales domestically and internationally. If cash generated from our operations is insufficient to fund such growth, we could be required to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or debt securities in the public or private markets, or through a collaborative arrangement or sale of assets. Additional financing opportunities may not be available to us, or if available, may not be on favorable terms. The availability of financing opportunities will depend, in part, on market conditions, and the outlook for our business. Any future issuance of equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities could result in substantial dilution to our stockholders, and the securities issued in such a financing could have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. In addition, if we raise additional funds through debt financing, we could be subject to debt covenants that place limitations on our operations. We could not be able to raise additional capital on reasonable terms, or at all, or we could use capital more rapidly than anticipated. If we cannot raise the required capital when needed, we may not be able to satisfy the demands of existing and prospective customers, we could lose revenue and market share and we may have to curtail our capital expenditures. The following factors, among others, could affect our ability to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all:. •  our results of operations;. •  general economic conditions and conditions in the dental or medical device industries;. •  the perception of our business in the capital markets;. •  our ratio of debt to equity;. •  our financial condition;. •  our business prospects; and. •  interest rates.. If we are unable to obtain sufficient capital in the future, we could have to curtail our capital expenditures. Any curtailment of our capital expenditures could result in a reduction in net revenue, reduced quality of our products, increased manufacturing costs for our products, harm to our reputation, or reduced manufacturing efficiencies and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our success depends, in part, on our relationships with, and the efforts of, third-party distributors.. We rely on exclusive and non-exclusive third-party distributors for a portion of our sales in North America and a majority of our sales in countries outside of the U.S. and Canada. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, revenue from distributors accounted for approximately 32%, 30%, and 34% of our total net revenue, respectively. Our distributors have significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources they apply to the sale of our products, and we face significant challenges and risks in expanding, training, and managing our third-party distributors, particularly given their geographically dispersed operations. Our distributors may not commit the necessary resources to market and sell our products to the level of our expectations, and, regardless of the resources they commit, they may not be successful. From time to time, we may face competition or pricing pressure from one or more of our non-exclusive distributors in certain geographic areas where those distributors are selling inventory to the same customer base as us. Additionally, most of our distributor agreements can be terminated with limited notice, and we may not be able to replace any terminating distributor in a timely manner or on terms agreeable to us, if at all. If we are not able to maintain our distribution network, if our distribution network is not successful in marketing and selling our products, or if we experience a significant reduction in, cancellation, or change in the size and timing of orders from our distributors, our revenues could decline significantly and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. 21. Dentists and patients have been hesitant in adopting laser technologies, and our inability to overcome this hesitation could limit the market acceptance of our products and our market share.. Our dental laser systems represent relatively new technologies in the dental market. Only a small percentage of dentists use lasers to perform dental procedures. Our future success will depend on our ability to increase demand for our products by demonstrating to a broad spectrum of dentists and patients the potential performance advantages of our laser systems over traditional methods of treatment and over competitive laser systems, and our inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Historically, we have experienced long sales cycles because dentists have been, and could continue to be, slow to adopt new technologies on a widespread basis. As a result, we generally are required to invest a significant amount of time and resources to educate dentists about the benefits of our products in comparison to competing products and technologies before completing a sale, if any.. Factors that could inhibit adoption of laser technologies by dentists include cost and concerns about the safety, efficacy, and reliability of lasers. In order to invest in a Waterlase system, a dentist generally needs to invest time to understand the technology, consider how patients may respond to the new technology, assess the financial impact the investment could have on the dentist's practice and become comfortable performing procedures with our products. Absent an immediate competitive motivation, a dentist may not feel compelled to invest the time required to learn about the potential benefits of using a laser system. Dentists may not accept or adopt our products until they see additional clinical evidence supporting the safety and efficiency of our products or recommendations supporting our laser systems by influential dental practitioners. In addition, economic pressure, caused, for example, by an economic slowdown, changes in health care reimbursement or by competitive factors in a specific market, could make dentists reluctant to purchase substantial capital equipment or invest in new technologies. Patient acceptance will depend on the recommendations of dentists and specialists, as well as other factors, including the relative effectiveness, safety, reliability, and comfort of our systems as compared to other instruments and methods for performing dental procedures.. Any failure in our efforts to train dental practitioners could result in the misuse of our products, reduce the market acceptance of our products and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. There is a learning process involved for dental practitioners to become proficient users of our laser systems. It is critical to the success of our sales efforts to adequately train a sufficient number of dental practitioners. Following completion of training, we rely on the trained dental practitioners to advocate the benefits of our products in the broader marketplace. Convincing dental practitioners to dedicate the time and energy necessary for adequate training is challenging, and we cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in these efforts. If dental practitioners are not properly trained, they could misuse or ineffectively use our products, or could be less likely to appreciate our laser systems. This could also result in unsatisfactory patient outcomes, patient injury, negative publicity, FDA regulatory action, or lawsuits against us, any of which could negatively affect our reputation and sales of our laser systems.. If future data proves to be inconsistent with our clinical results or if competitors' products present more favorable results our revenues could decline and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. If new studies or comparative studies generate results that are not as favorable as our clinical results, our revenues could decline. Additionally, if future studies indicate that our competitors' products are more effective or safer than ours, our revenues could decline. Furthermore, dental practitioners could choose not to purchase our laser systems until they receive additional published long-term clinical evidence and recommendations from prominent dental practitioners that indicate our laser systems are effective for dental applications.. We face competition from other companies, many of which have substantially greater resources than we do. If we do not successfully develop and commercialize enhanced or new products that remain competitive with products or alternative technologies developed by others, we could lose revenue opportunities and customers and our ability to grow our business would be impaired.. A number of competitors have substantially greater capital resources, larger customer bases, larger technical, sales and marketing forces and stronger reputations with target customers than ours. We compete with a number of domestic and foreign companies that market traditional dental products, such as dental drills, as well as companies that market laser technologies in the dental and medical markets. The marketplace is highly fragmented and very competitive. We expect that the rapid technological changes occurring in the health care industry could lead to the entry of new competitors, particularly if dental and medical lasers gain increasing market acceptance. If we do not compete successfully, our revenue and market share could decline and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected.. 22. Our long-term success depends upon our ability to (i) distinguish our products through improving our product performance and pricing, protecting our intellectual property, improving our customer support, accurately timing the introduction of new products, and developing sustainable distribution channels worldwide; and (ii) develop and successfully commercialize new products, new or improved technologies, and additional applications for our laser systems. There is no assurance that we will be able to distinguish our products and commercialize any new products, new or improved technologies, or additional applications for our laser systems.. If our customers cannot obtain third-party reimbursement for their use of our products, they could be less inclined to purchase our products and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our products are generally purchased by dental or medical professionals who have various billing practices and patient mixes. Such practices range from primarily private pay to those who rely heavily on third-party payers, such as private insurance or government programs. In the United States, third-party payers review and frequently challenge the prices charged for medical products and/or services. In many foreign countries, the prices for dental services are predetermined through government regulation. Payers could deny coverage and reimbursement on various grounds, including if they determine that the procedure was not medically necessary or that the device used in the procedure was investigational. Accordingly, both coverage and reimbursement can vary significantly from payer to payer. For the portion of dentists who rely heavily on third-party reimbursement, the inability to obtain reimbursement for services using our products could deter them from purchasing or using our products. We cannot predict the effect that future health care reforms or changes in financing for health and dental plans could have on our business. Any such changes could have an adverse effect on the ability of a dental or medical professional to generate a profit using our current or future products. In addition, such changes could act as disincentives for capital investments by dental and medical professionals.. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards could be limited.. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (\"IRC\") generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of net operating loss carryforwards that may be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone material changes in its stock ownership. In 2006, we completed an analysis to determine the applicability of the annual limitations imposed by IRC Section 382 caused by previous changes in our stock ownership and determined that such limitations should not be significant. Given our continued generation of losses since the completion of 2006 study, we have not updated the study.  However, we plan to update the study if we expect to utilize net operating loss carryforwards in any future year. If we experience an ownership change as defined in IRC Section 382, utilization of the net operating loss carryforwards, research and development credit carryforwards, and other tax attributes, would be subject to an annual limitation under Section 382 of the IRC. In addition, our ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards, research and development credit carryforwards, and other tax attributes may be limited by other changes outside our control, such as changes to applicable tax law. Any limitation may result in the expiration of a portion of the net operating loss or research and development credit carryforwards before utilization. If we lose our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards, any income we generate will be subject to tax earlier than it would be if we were able to use net operating loss carryforwards, resulting in lower profits which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We could incur problems in manufacturing our products.. In order to grow our business, we must expand our manufacturing capabilities to produce the systems and accessories necessary to meet any demand we may experience. We could encounter difficulties in increasing the production of our products, including problems involving production capacity and yields, quality control and assurance, component supply, and shortages of qualified personnel. In addition, before we can begin commercial manufacture of our products, we must ensure our manufacturing facilities, processes, and quality systems, and the manufacture of our laser systems, comply with FDA regulations governing facility compliance, quality control, and documentation policies and procedures. In addition, our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspections by the FDA, as well as various state agencies and foreign regulatory agencies. From time to time, we could expend significant resources in obtaining, maintaining, and addressing our compliance with these requirements. Our success will depend in part upon our ability to manufacture our products in compliance with the FDA's QSR and other regulatory requirements. We have experienced quality issues with components of our products supplied by third parties, and we could continue to do so. Our future success depends on our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis with acceptable manufacturing costs, while at the same time maintaining good quality control and complying with applicable regulatory requirements, and an inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 23. We could be subject to significant warranty obligations if our products are defective, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. In manufacturing our products, we depend upon third parties for the supply of various components. Many of these components require a significant degree of technical expertise to design and produce. If we fail to adequately design, or if our suppliers fail to produce components to specification, or if the suppliers, or we, use defective materials or workmanship in the manufacturing process, the reliability and performance of our products will be compromised. We have experienced such non-compliance with manufacturing specifications in the past and could continue to experience such non-compliance in the future, which could lead to higher costs and reduced margins.. Our products could contain defects that cannot be repaired easily and inexpensively, and we have experienced in the past and could experience in the future some or all of the following:. •  loss of customer orders and delay in order fulfillment;. •  damage to our brand reputation;. •  increased cost of our warranty program due to product repair or replacement;. •  inability to attract new customers;. •  diversion of resources from our manufacturing and engineering and development departments into our service department; and. •  legal action.. Adverse publicity regarding our technology or products could negatively impact us.. Adverse publicity regarding any of our products or similar products marketed or sold by others could negatively affect us. If any studies raise or substantiate concerns regarding the efficacy or safety of our products or other concerns, our reputation could be harmed and demand for our products could diminish, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our products are used in minimally invasive surgical procedures, usually, though not always, without anesthesia.  All surgical procedures carry some risk.  Patients could experience adverse events or outcomes following a surgical procedure due to a multitude of different factors alone or in combination, including deficits in the skill, experience, and preparedness of the surgeon, the existence of underlying conditions or overall poor health of the patient, and defects, age, and misuse of medical products used in the procedure.  Should an adverse patient event occur during the use of a BIOLASE product, there could be adverse publicity, increased scrutiny from regulatory agencies, and a loss of good will, even if it is ultimately shown to be caused by factors other than a BIOLASE product.. Product liability claims against us could be costly and could harm our reputation.. The sale of dental and medical devices involves the risk of product liability claims against us. Claims could exceed our product liability insurance coverage limits. Our insurance policies are subject to various standard coverage exclusions, including damage to the product itself, losses from recall of our product, and losses covered by other forms of insurance such as workers compensation. We cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully defend any claims against us, nor can we be certain that our insurance will cover all liabilities resulting from such claims. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain such insurance in the future on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, any product liability claim brought against us could result in harm to our reputation, decreased demand for our products, costs related to litigation, product recalls, loss of revenue, an increase in our product liability insurance rates, or the inability to secure coverage in the future, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our suppliers may not supply us with a sufficient amount or adequate quality of materials, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our business depends on our ability to obtain timely deliveries of materials, components, and subassemblies of acceptable quality and in acceptable quantities from third-party suppliers. We generally purchase components and subassemblies from a limited group of suppliers through purchase orders, rather than written supply contracts. Consequently, many of our suppliers have no obligation to continue to supply us on a long-term basis.  In addition, our suppliers manufacture products for a range of customers, and fluctuations in demand for the products those suppliers manufacture for others could affect their ability to deliver components for us in a timely manner.  Moreover, our suppliers could encounter financial hardships, be acquired, or experience other business events unrelated to our demand for components, which could inhibit or prevent their ability to fulfill our orders and satisfy our requirements.. 24. Certain components of our products, particularly specialized components used in our laser systems, are currently available only from a single source or limited sources. For example, the crystal, fiber, and hand pieces used in our Waterlase systems are each supplied by a separate single supplier. Our dependence on single-source suppliers involves several risks, including limited control over pricing, availability, quality, and delivery schedules.. If any of our suppliers cease to provide us with sufficient quantities of our components in a timely manner or on terms acceptable to us, or ceases to manufacture components of acceptable quality, we could incur manufacturing delays and sales disruptions while we locate and engage alternative qualified suppliers, and we might be unable to engage acceptable alternative suppliers on favorable terms. In addition, we could need to reengineer our components, which could require product redesign and submission to the FDA of a 510(k) application, which could significantly delay production. Any interruption or delay in the supply of components or materials, or our inability to obtain components or materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers and cause them to cancel orders or switch to competitive procedures. As of the date on which this Form 10-K was filed with the SEC, we were in the process of identifying and qualifying alternate source suppliers for our key components. There can be no assurance, however, that we will successfully identify and qualify an alternate source supplier for any of our key components or that we could enter into an agreement with any such alternate source supplier on terms acceptable to us, or at all.. Rapidly changing standards and competing technologies could harm demand for our products, result in significant additional costs, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The markets in which our products compete are subject to rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changes in the regulatory environment, and frequent introductions of new devices and evolving dental and surgical techniques. Competing products could emerge that render our products uncompetitive or obsolete. The process of developing new medical devices is inherently complex and requires regulatory approvals or clearances that can be expensive, time-consuming, and uncertain. We cannot guarantee that we will successfully identify new product opportunities, identify new and innovative applications of our technology, or be financially or otherwise capable of completing the research and development required to bring new products to market in a timely manner. An inability to expand our product offerings or the application of our technology could limit our growth. In addition, we could incur higher manufacturing costs if manufacturing processes or standards change, and we could need to replace, modify, design, or build and install equipment, all of which would require additional capital expenditures.. We could be unable to effectively manage and implement our growth strategies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our growth strategy includes expanding our product line and clinical applications by developing enhancements and transformational innovations, including new clinical solutions for dental applications and for other adjacent medical applications. Expansion of our existing product line and entry into new medical applications divert the use of our resources and systems, require additional resources that might not be available (or available on acceptable terms), require additional country-specific regulatory approvals, result in new or increasing competition, could require longer implementation times or greater start-up expenditures than anticipated, and could otherwise fail to achieve the desired results in a timely fashion, if at all. These efforts could also require that we successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner, price them competitively and cost-effectively, and manufacture and deliver sufficient volumes of new products of appropriate quality on time. We could be unable to increase our sales and earnings by expanding our product offerings in a cost-effective manner, and we could fail to accurately predict future customer needs and preferences or to produce viable technologies. In addition, we could invest heavily in research and development of products that do not lead to significant revenue. Even if we successfully innovate and develop new products and product enhancements, we could incur substantial costs in doing so. In addition, promising new products could fail to reach the market or realize only limited commercial success because of efficacy or safety concerns, failure to achieve positive clinical outcomes, or uncertainty over third-party reimbursement.. We have significant international sales and are subject to risks associated with operating in international markets.. International sales comprise a significant portion of our net revenue, and we intend to continue to pursue and expand our international business activities. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, international sales accounted for approximately 38%, 36%, and 39% of our net revenue, respectively. Political and economic conditions outside the United States could make it difficult for us to increase our international revenue or to operate abroad. International operations are subject to many inherent risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, including among others:. •  adverse changes in tariffs and trade restrictions;. •  political, social, and economic instability and increased security concerns;. •  fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;. 25. •  longer collection periods and difficulties in collecting receivables from foreign entities;. •  exposure to different legal standards;. •  transportation delays and difficulties of managing international distribution channels;. •  reduced protection for our intellectual property in some countries;. •  difficulties in obtaining domestic and foreign export, import, and other governmental approvals, permits, and licenses, and compliance with foreign laws;. •  the imposition of governmental controls;. •  unexpected changes in regulatory or certification requirements;. •  difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; and. •  potentially adverse tax consequences and the complexities of foreign value-added tax systems.. We believe that international sales will continue to represent a significant portion of our net revenue, and we intend to expand our international operations further. In international markets where our sales are denominated in U.S. dollars, an increase in the relative value of the dollar against the currency in such markets could indirectly increase the price of our products in those markets and result in a decrease in sales. We do not currently engage in any transactions as a hedge against risks of loss due to foreign currency fluctuations. However, we could do so in the future.. We could be subject to breaches of our information technology systems, which could damage our reputation and customer relationships. Such breaches could subject us to significant reputational, financial, legal, and operational consequences.. We rely on information systems (\"IS\") in our business to obtain, rapidly process, analyze and manage data to, among other things:. •  facilitate the purchase and distribution of thousands of inventory items through numerous distributors;. •  receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis;. •  accurately bill and collect from thousands of customers;. •  process payments to suppliers; and. •  provide technical support to our customers.. A cyber-attack that bypasses our IS security, or employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions that cause an IS security breach could lead to a material disruption of our IS and/or the loss of business information.  Such an attack could result in, among other things:. •  the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of confidential data and intellectual property;. •  operational or business delays;. •  liability for a breach of personal financial and health information belonging to our customers and their patients or to our employees; and. •  damage to our reputation. any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.   In the event of an attack, we would be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, including under laws that protect the privacy of personal information.. 26. Our revenue and operating results fluctuate due to seasonality and other factors, so you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance.. Our revenue typically fluctuates from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Revenue in the first quarter typically is lower than average, and revenue in the fourth quarter typically is stronger than average due to the buying patterns of dental practitioners. We believe that this trend exists because a significant number of dentists purchase their capital equipment towards the end of the calendar year in order to maximize their practice earnings while seeking to minimize their taxes. They often use certain tax incentives, such as accelerated depreciation methods for purchasing capital equipment, as part of their year-end tax planning. In addition, revenue in the third quarter could be affected by vacation patterns, which can cause revenue to be flat or lower than in the second quarter of the year. Our historical seasonal fluctuations could also be impacted by sales promotions used by large dental distributors that encourage end-of-quarter and end-of-year buying in our industry. Other factors that might cause quarterly fluctuations in our revenue and operating results include the following:. •  variation in demand for our products;. •  our ability to research, develop, market, and sell new products and product enhancements in a timely manner;. •  our ability to control costs;. •  our ability to control quality issues with our products;. •  regulatory actions that impact our manufacturing processes;. •  the size, timing, rescheduling, or cancellation of orders from distributors;. •  the introduction of new products by competitors;. •  the length of and fluctuations in sales cycles;. •  the availability and reliability of components used to manufacture our products;. •  changes in our pricing policies or those of our suppliers and competitors, as well as increased price competition in general;. •  legal expenses, particularly related to litigation matters;. •  general economic conditions including the availability of credit for our existing and potential customer base to finance purchases;. •  the mix of our domestic and international sales and the risks and uncertainties associated with international business;. •  costs associated with any future acquisitions of technologies and businesses;. •  limitations on our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards under the provisions of IRC Section 382 and similar state laws;. •  developments concerning the protection of our intellectual property rights;. •  catastrophic events such as hurricanes, floods, and earthquakes, which can affect our ability to advertise, sell, and distribute our products, including through national conferences held in regions in which these disasters strike; and. •  global economic, political, and social events, including international conflicts and acts of terrorism.. The expenses we incur are based, in large part, on our expectations regarding future net revenue. Since many of our costs are fixed in the short term, we could be unable to reduce expenses quickly enough to avoid losses if we experience a decrease in expected net revenue. Accordingly, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance.. Litigation against us could be costly and time-consuming to defend and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We are from time to time involved in various claims, litigation matters and regulatory proceedings incidental to our business, including claims for damages arising out of the use of our products or services and claims relating to intellectual property matters, employment matters, commercial disputes, competition, sales and trading practices, environmental matters, personal injury, and insurance coverage. Some of these lawsuits include claims for punitive as well as compensatory damages. The defense of these lawsuits could divert our management's attention, and we could incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. In addition, we could be required to pay damage awards or settlements or become subject to unfavorable equitable remedies. Moreover, any insurance or indemnification rights that we could have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against potential loss exposures.. 27. Our operations are consolidated primarily in one facility. A disruption at this facility could result in a prolonged interruption of our business and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Substantially all of our administrative operations and our manufacturing operations are located at our facility in Irvine, California, which is near known earthquake fault zones. Although we have taken precautions to safeguard our facilities including disaster recovery planning and off-site backup of computer data, a natural disaster such as an earthquake, fire, or flood, could seriously harm our facility and significantly disrupt our operations. Additionally, labor disputes, maintenance requirements, power outages, equipment failures, civil unrest, or terrorist attacks affecting our Irvine, California facility could significantly disrupt our operations. Our business interruption insurance coverage may not cover all or any of our losses from natural disasters or other disruptions.. If we lose our key management personnel, or are unable to attract or retain qualified personnel, it could adversely affect our ability to execute our growth strategy.. Our success is dependent, in part, upon our ability to hire and retain management, engineers, marketing and sales personnel, and technical, research and other personnel who are in high demand and are often subject to competing employment opportunities. Our success will depend on our ability to retain our current personnel and to attract and retain qualified like personnel in the future. Competition for senior management, engineers, marketing and sales personnel, and other specialized technicians is intense and we may not be able to retain our personnel. If we lose the services of any executive officers or key employees, our ability to achieve our business objectives could be harmed and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In general, our officers could terminate their employment at any time without notice for any reason.. Acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties, including difficulties integrating acquired businesses successfully into our existing operations and risks of discovering previously undisclosed liabilities.. Successful acquisitions depend upon our ability to identify, negotiate, complete, and integrate suitable acquisitions and to obtain any necessary financing. We expect to continue to consider opportunities to acquire or make investments in other technologies, products and businesses that could enhance our capabilities, complement our current products, or expand the breadth of our markets or customer base. We have limited experience in acquiring other businesses and technologies. Even if we complete acquisitions, we could experience:. •  difficulties in integrating any acquired companies, personnel, products, and other assets into our existing business;. •  delays in realizing the benefits of the acquired company, product, or other assets;. •  diversion of our management's time and attention from other business concerns;. •  limited or no direct prior experience in new markets or countries we could enter;. •  higher costs of integration than we anticipated; and. •  difficulties in retaining key employees of the acquired business.. In addition, an acquisition could cause us to incur debt or issue shares, resulting in dilution to existing stockholders. We could also discover deficiencies in internal controls, data adequacy and integrity, product quality, regulatory compliance, and product liabilities that we did not uncover prior to our acquisition of such businesses, which could result in us becoming subject to penalties or other liabilities. Any difficulties in the integration of acquired businesses or unexpected penalties or liabilities in connection with such businesses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. If we fail to comply with the reporting obligations of the Exchange Act and Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or if we fail to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting, our business, financial condition, and results of operations, and investors' confidence in us, could be materially and adversely affected.. As a public company, we are required to comply with the periodic reporting obligations of the Exchange Act, including preparing annual reports, quarterly reports, and current reports. Our failure to prepare and disclose this information in a timely manner and meet our reporting obligations in their entirety could subject us to penalties under federal securities laws and regulations of The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC (\"NASDAQ\"), expose us to lawsuits, and restrict our ability to access financing on favorable terms, or at all.. 28. In addition, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we are required to evaluate and provide a management report of our systems of internal control over financial reporting. During the course of the evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting, we could identify areas requiring improvement and could be required to design enhanced processes and controls to address issues identified through this review. This could result in significant delays and costs to us and require us to divert substantial resources, including management time, from other activities. In addition, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. Any failure to maintain compliance with the requirements of Section 404 on a timely basis could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could, negatively impact the trading price of our stock, and adversely affect investors' confidence in the Company and our ability to access capital markets for financing.. Climate change initiatives could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our manufacturing processes require that we purchase significant quantities of energy from third parties, which results in the generation of greenhouse gases, either directly on-site or indirectly at electric utilities. Both domestic and international legislation to address climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions and establishing a price on carbon could create increases in energy costs and price volatility. Considerable international attention is now focused on development of an international policy framework to address climate change. Proposed and existing legislative efforts to control or limit greenhouse gas emissions could affect our energy source and supply choices as well as increase the cost of energy and raw materials derived from sources that generate greenhouse gas emissions. If our suppliers are unable to obtain energy at a reasonable cost in the future, the cost of our raw materials could be negatively impacted which could result in increased manufacturing costs.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. If the patents that we own or license, or our other intellectual property rights, do not adequately protect our technologies, we could lose market share to our competitors and be unable to operate our business profitably.. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products and technology, to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing the intellectual property of others. We rely on patents to establish and maintain proprietary rights in our technology and products. We currently possess a number of issued patents and patent applications with respect to our products and technology. However, we cannot ensure that any additional patents will be issued, that the scope of any patent protection will be effective in helping us address our competition, or that any of our patents will be held valid if subsequently challenged. It is also possible that our competitors could independently develop similar or more desirable products, duplicate our products, or design products that circumvent our patents. The laws of foreign countries may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. In addition, there have been recent changes in the patent laws and rules of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (the \"USPTO\"), and there could be future proposed changes that, if enacted, have a significant impact on our ability to protect our technology and enforce our intellectual property rights. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitive position could be adversely affected, and there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. If third parties claim that we infringe their intellectual property rights, we could incur liabilities and costs and have to redesign or discontinue selling certain products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We face substantial uncertainty regarding the impact that other parties' intellectual property positions will have on dental and other medical laser applications. The medical technology industry has in the past been characterized by a substantial amount of litigation and related administrative proceedings regarding patents and intellectual property rights. From time to time, we have received, and we expect to continue to receive, notices of claims of infringement, misappropriation, or misuse of other parties' proprietary rights. Some of these claims could lead to litigation. We may not prevail in any future intellectual property infringement litigation given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in litigation. Any claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and distracting to management, result in costly litigation, or cause product shipment delays. Adverse determinations in litigation could subject us to significant liability and could result in the loss of proprietary rights. A successful lawsuit against us could also force us to cease selling or redesign products that incorporate the infringed intellectual property. Additionally, we could be required to seek a license from the holder of the intellectual property to use the infringed technology, and we may not be able to obtain a license on acceptable terms, or at all.. 29. Risks Related to Our Regulatory Environment. Changes in government regulation or the inability to obtain or maintain necessary government approvals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our products are subject to extensive government regulation, both in the United States and in other countries. To clinically test, manufacture, and market products for human use, we must comply with regulations and safety standards set by the FDA and comparable state and foreign agencies. Regulations adopted by the FDA are wide-ranging and govern, among other things, product design, development, manufacture and control testing, labeling control, storage, advertising, and sales. Generally, products must meet regulatory standards as safe and effective for their intended use before being marketed for human applications. The clearance process is expensive, time-consuming, and uncertain. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements of the FDA can result in an enforcement action, which could include a variety of sanctions, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of our products, operating restrictions, partial suspension, or total shutdown of production and criminal prosecution. The failure to receive or maintain requisite approvals for the use of our products or processes, or significant delays in obtaining such approvals, could prevent us from developing, manufacturing, and marketing products and services necessary for us to remain competitive.. If we develop new products and applications or make any significant modifications to our existing products or labeling, we will need to obtain additional regulatory clearances or approvals. Any modification that could significantly affect a product's safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a change in its intended use, will require a new FDA 510(k) clearance, or could require a PMA application. The FDA requires each manufacturer to make this determination initially, but the FDA can review any such decision and can disagree with a manufacturer's determination. If the FDA disagrees with a manufacturer's determination, the FDA can require the manufacturer to cease marketing and/or recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or PMA is obtained. If 510(k) clearance is denied and a PMA application is required, we could be required to submit substantially more data and conduct human clinical testing and would very likely be subject to a significantly longer review period.. Products sold in international markets are also subject to the regulatory requirements of each respective country or region. The regulations of the European Union require that a device have a CE Mark, indicating conformance with European Union laws and regulations before it can be sold in the European Union. The regulatory international review process varies from country to country. We rely on our distributors and sales representatives in the foreign countries in which we market our products to comply with the regulatory laws of such countries. Failure to comply with the laws of such countries could prevent us from continuing to sell products in such countries. In addition, unanticipated changes in existing regulatory requirements or the adoption of new requirements could impose significant costs and burdens on us, which could increase our operating expenses.. Changes in health care regulations in the U.S. and elsewhere could adversely affect the demand for our products as well as the way in which we conduct our business. For example, in 2010, President Obama signed the Affordable Care Act into law, which included various reforms impacting Medicare coverage and reimbursement, including revision to prospective payment systems, any of which could adversely impact any Medicare reimbursements received by our end-user customers. New legislation may be enacted as President Trump and Congress consider further reform. In addition, as a result of the focus on health care reform, there is risk that Congress could implement changes in laws and regulations governing health care service providers, including measures to control costs, and reductions in reimbursement levels. We cannot be sure that government or private third-party payers will cover and reimburse the procedures using our products, in whole or in part, in the future, or that payment rates will be adequate. If providers cannot obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement for our products, or the procedures in which they are used, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could suffer.. We could be subject to or otherwise affected by federal and state health care laws, including fraud and abuse and health information privacy and security laws, and we could face substantial penalties if we are unable to fully comply with such regulations.. We are directly or indirectly, through our customers, subject to extensive regulation by both the federal government and the states and foreign countries in which we conduct our business. The laws that directly or indirectly affect our ability to operate our business include, but are not limited to, the following:. •  the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, which regulates the design, testing, manufacture, labeling, marketing, distribution, and sale of prescription drugs and medical devices and which includes the RCHSA, under which the FDA has established reporting, recordkeeping, and performance requirements for laser products;. •  state food and drug laws;. 30. •  the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving, or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce the referral for the furnishing of, or the purchase, order, or recommendation of, a good or service, for which payment could be made under FHCPs such as Medicare, Medicaid, and TRICARE;. •  state law equivalents to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which may not be limited to government reimbursed items;. •  state laws that prohibit fee-splitting arrangements;. •  the federal Civil False Claims Act, which imposes liability on any person or entity that knowingly presents, or causes to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment to the government, including FHCPs;. •  state false claims laws that prohibit anyone from presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment to third-party payers that are false or fraudulent;. •  federal crimes for knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program or making false statements in connection with the delivery of or payment for items or services under a health care benefit program;. •  federal law prohibiting offering remuneration to a Medicare or Medicaid beneficiary to influence the beneficiary's selection of a particular provider, practitioner, or supplier;. •  the federal Stark Law, which, in the absence of a statutory or regulatory exception, prohibits: (i) the referral of Medicare or Medicaid patients by a physician to an entity for the provision of designated health care services, if the physician or a member of the physician's immediate family has a direct or indirect financial relationship, including an ownership interest in, or a compensation arrangement with, the entity and (ii) submitting a bill to Medicare or Medicaid for services rendered pursuant to a prohibited referral;. •  state law equivalents to the Stark Law, which may not be limited to government reimbursed items;. •  the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which requires us to report annually to CMS certain payments and other transfers of value we make to U.S.-licensed physicians, dentists, and teaching hospitals;. •  the FCPA, which generally prohibits companies and their intermediaries from paying anything of value to foreign officials to influence any decision of the foreign official in his/her official capacity or to secure any other improper advantage to obtain or retain business;. •  HIPAA and HITECH and their implementing regulations, which govern the use, disclosure, and safeguarding of PHI;. •  state privacy laws that protect the confidentiality of patient information;. •  Medicare and Medicaid laws and regulations that prescribe the requirements for coverage and payment, including the amount of such payment; state laws that prohibit the practice of medicine by non-physicians; and. •  the Federal Trade Commission Act and similar laws regulating advertising and consumer protection.. If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or the other governmental laws or regulations to which we or our customers are subject, we could be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation, which could include civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from FHCPs, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. If we are required to obtain permits or licensure under these laws that we do not already possess, we could become subject to substantial additional regulation or incur significant expense. Any penalties, damages, fines, or curtailment or restructuring of our operations could be significant. The risk of potential non-compliance is increased by the fact that many of these laws have not been fully interpreted by applicable regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations and additional legal or regulatory change. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management's attention from the operation of our business, damage our reputation, and cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. 31. We could be exposed to liabilities under the FCPA, and any determination that we violated the FCPA could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. In light of our operations outside the United States, we are subject to the FCPA, which generally prohibits companies and their intermediaries from offering to pay, promising to pay, or authorizing the payment of money or anything of value to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of influencing any act or decision of the foreign official in his/her capacity or to secure any other improper advantage to obtain or retain business. Violation of the anti-bribery provisions of the FCPA can result in criminal fines of up to $2 million and civil penalties of up to $16,000 for each violation. Individuals, including officers, directors, stockholders, and agents of companies, can be subject to a criminal fine of up to $250,000 and imprisonment, in addition to civil penalties of up to $16,000, per violation.  We could be held liable for actions taken by our distributors in violation of the FCPA, even though such partners are foreign companies that may not be subject to the FCPA. Any determination that we violated the FCPA could result in sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Product sales or introductions could be delayed or canceled as a result of the FDA regulatory requirements applicable to laser products, dental devices, or both, which could cause our sales or profitability to decline and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The process of obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals and clearances to market a medical device from the FDA and similar regulatory authorities abroad can be costly and time-consuming, and we cannot provide assurance that such approvals and clearances will be granted. Pursuant to FDA regulations, unless exempt, the FDA permits commercial distribution of a new medical device only after the device has received 510(k) clearance or is the subject of an approved PMA. The FDA will clear marketing of a medical device through the 510(k) process if it is demonstrated that the new product is substantially equivalent to other 510(k)-cleared products. The PMA process is more costly, lengthy and uncertain than the 510(k) process, and must be supported by extensive data, including data from preclinical studies, and human clinical trials. Because we cannot provide assurance that any new products, or any product enhancements, that we develop will be subject to the shorter 510(k) clearance process, significant delays in the introduction of any new products or product enhancement could occur. We cannot provide assurance that the FDA will not require a new product or product enhancement to go through the lengthy and expensive PMA process. Delays in obtaining regulatory clearances and approvals could:. •  delay or eliminate commercialization of products we develop;. •  require us to perform costly procedures;. •  diminish any competitive advantages that we may attain; and. •  reduce our ability to collect revenues or royalties.. Although we have obtained 510(k) clearance from the FDA to market our dental laser systems, we cannot provide assurance that we will not be required to obtain new clearances or approvals for modifications or improvements to our products.. Our products are subject to recalls and other regulatory actions after receiving FDA clearance or approval.. The FDA and similar governmental bodies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. A government mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors, or design defects, including defects in labeling. Any recall would divert management's attention and financial resources and harm our reputation with customers. Any recall involving our laser systems would be particularly harmful to us, because our laser systems comprise such an important part of our portfolio of products. However, any recall could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Stock. The liquidity and trading volume of our common stock could be low, and our ownership is concentrated.. The liquidity and trading volume of our common stock has at times been low in the past and could again be low in the future. If the liquidity and trading volume of our common stock is low, this could adversely impact the trading price of our shares, our ability to issue stock and our stockholders' ability to obtain liquidity in their shares. The issuance of common stock by us in 2013, 2014, 2016 and 2017 involved a significant issuance of stock to a limited number of investors, significantly increasing the concentration of our share ownership in a few holders.. 32. Two of our stockholders beneficially own approximately 62% of our outstanding common stock, in the aggregate, as of December 31, 2017, as determined based on a review of their reports on Schedule 13D/A. As a result, these stockholders will be able to affect the outcome of, or exert significant influence over, all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and any change in control. In particular, this concentration of ownership of our common stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us or otherwise discouraging or preventing a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us. This, in turn, could have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. It could also prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over the market prices for their shares of common stock. Moreover, the interests of this concentration of ownership may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders.  The concentration of ownership also contributes to the low trading volume and volatility of our common stock.. Our stock price has been, and could continue to be, volatile.. There has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities, which is often unrelated to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. These broad market fluctuations could negatively affect the market price of our stock. The market price and volume of our common stock could fluctuate, and in the past has fluctuated, more dramatically than the stock market in general. You may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid for them due to fluctuations in the market price of our stock caused by changes in our operating performance or prospects or other factors. Some factors, in addition to the other risk factors identified above, that could have a significant effect on our stock market price include but are not limited to the following:. •  actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or future prospects;. •  our announcements or our competitors' announcements of new products;. •  the public's reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements, and our filings with the SEC;. •  strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings;. •  new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business;. •  changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations, or principles;. •  changes in our growth rates or our competitors' growth rates;. •  developments regarding our patents or proprietary rights or those of our competitors;. •  our inability to raise additional capital as needed;. •  concerns or allegations as to the safety or efficacy of our products;. •  changes in financial markets or general economic conditions;. •  sales of stock by us or members of our management team, our Board, our significant stockholders, or certain institutional stockholders; and. •  changes in stock market analyst recommendations or earnings estimates regarding our stock, other comparable companies or our industry generally.. Our common stock may be subject to delisting from the NASDAQ Capital Market.. On August 9, 2017, we received a letter from the staff of NASDAQ notifying us that we violated the continued listing requirements of NASDAQ listing rule 5550(a)(2). As provided in the NASDAQ rules, we had 180 calendar days, or until February 5, 2018, to submit a plan to regain compliance, which plan was submitted prior to February 5, 2018.. On February 6, 2018, as a result of our submission of a plan to regain compliance, we were granted an additional 180 days to regain compliance.  However the letter stated that if we were to fail to regain compliance during the additional compliance period, we may be subject to delisting.. 33. If subsequent to the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, we receive written notification from staff of NASDAQ notifying us of potential delisting due to non-compliance with the continued listing requirements of NASDAQ listing rule 5500(a)(2), we intend to appeal the delisting notice to the NASDAQ hearings panel, and develop a plan to satisfy the requirement to reach compliance and to continue listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to develop such a plan or, if we are able to do so, that NASDAQ would accept it. If we cannot develop a plan, or if we do, and it is not accepted, or if we are not granted an extension, then our common stock could be delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market. If our common stock is delisted, this would, among other things, substantially impair our ability to raise additional funds and could result in a loss of institutional investor interest and fewer development opportunities for us.. You could experience substantial dilution of your investment as a result of subsequent exercises of our outstanding warrants and options, future sales of our equity, or the future grant of equity by us.. You could experience substantial dilution of your investment as a result of subsequent exercises of outstanding warrants and outstanding options issued as compensation for services performed by employees, directors, consultants, and others, warrants issued in past sales of our equity, future sales of our equity, or the grant of future equity-based awards. During 2017, we sold approximately 34.4 million shares of common stock in a rights offering and private placement with gross proceeds totaling approximately $22.5 million. During 2016, we sold approximately 0.9 million shares of common stock in private placements with gross proceeds totaling approximately $10.0 million. We did not complete any private placements during 2015. During 2014, we sold approximately 22.4 million shares of common stock in private placements with gross proceeds totaling approximately $52.0 million.. As of December 31, 2017, an aggregate of 15,550,000 shares of common stock were reserved for issuance under our equity incentive plan, 6,737,257 of which were subject to options outstanding as of that date at a weighted-average exercise price of $1.80 per share. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, 6,126,269 shares of our common stock were subject to warrants at a weighted-average exercise price of $1.93 per share. Of the 6,737,257 stock options outstanding at December 31, 2017, 3,453,922 stock options were vested and exercisable. To the extent that outstanding warrants or options are exercised, our existing stockholders could experience dilution. We rely heavily on equity awards to motivate current employees and to attract new employees. The grant of future equity awards by us to our employees and other service providers could further dilute our stockholders' interests in the Company.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter, bylaws, other agreements, and under Delaware law could discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of the Company.. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could discourage, delay, or prevent a merger or acquisition involving us that our stockholders may consider favorable. These provisions include but are not limited to the right of our Board to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, no stockholder ability to fill director vacancies, elimination of the rights of our stockholders to act by written consent and call special stockholder meetings, super-majority vote requirements for certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and stockholder proposals for amendments to our bylaws, prohibition against stockholders from removing directors other than \"for cause\" and rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings.. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Under these provisions, if anyone becomes an \"interested stockholder,\" we may not enter into a \"business combination\" with that person for three years without special approval, which could discourage a third-party from making a takeover offer and could delay or prevent a change in control of us. An \"interested stockholder\" generally means (subject to certain exceptions as described in the Delaware General Corporation Law) someone owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate of ours that owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock during the past three years.. On November 10, 2015, we entered into Standstill Agreements with certain stockholders, and on August 1, 2016 and November 9, 2017, we amended the Standstill Agreements.  As amended, the Standstill Agreements restrict certain stockholders from (i) purchasing or acquiring any shares of BIOLASE common stock if such a purchase would result in aggregate beneficial ownership in excess of 41% of the issued and outstanding shares of BIOLASE common stock and (ii) selling, transferring or otherwise conveying shares of BIOLASE common stock (or warrants or other rights to acquire shares of BIOLASE common stock) to anyone who would immediately thereafter beneficially own shares in excess of 20% of the issued and outstanding shares of BIOLASE common stock, as a result of such transfer and other transfers from third parties.  These Standstill Agreements may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of the Company.. 34. Because we do not intend to pay dividends, our stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value.. We intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance the expansion of our business and do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend entirely upon any future appreciation. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our stockholders purchased their shares."
