[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business. Pressures relating to downturns in the economy could adversely affect our business and consolidated financial statements.. Medicare and other federal and state payors account for a significant portion of our revenues.  During economic downturns and periods of stagnant or slow economic growth, federal and state budgets are typically negatively affected, resulting in reduced. 15. Table of Contents. reimbursements or delayed payments by the federal and state government health care coverage programs in which we participate, including Medicare, Medicaid and other federal or state assistance plans.  Government programs could also slow or temporarily suspend payments, negatively impacting our cash flow and increasing our working capital needs and interest payments.  We have seen, and believe we will continue to see, Medicare and state Medicaid programs institute measures aimed at controlling spending growth, including reductions in reimbursement rates.. Higher unemployment rates and significant employment layoffs and downsizings may lead to lower numbers of patients enrolled in employer-provided plans.  Adverse economic conditions could also cause employers to stop offering, or limit, healthcare coverage, or modify program designs, shifting more costs to the individual and exposing us to greater credit risk from patients or the discontinuance of therapy.. Existing and new government legislative and regulatory action could adversely affect our business and financial results.. Our business is subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations.  See \"Business - Government Regulation.\"  Changes in these regulations may require extensive changes to our systems and operations that may be difficult to implement.  Untimely compliance or noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations could adversely affect the continued operation of our business as a result of civil or criminal penalties, including, but not limited to: imposition of monetary penalties; suspension of payments from government programs; loss of required government certifications or approvals; suspension or exclusion from participation in government reimbursement programs; or loss of licensure.  Reductions in reimbursement by Medicare, Medicaid and other governmental payors could adversely affect our business as well.  The law and regulations to which we are subject include, but are not limited to, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and Stark Law, and state counter parts; HIPAA; False Claims Act; Civil Monetary Penalties Act; regulations promulgated by the FDA, U.S. Federal Trade Commission, DEA, HHS and CMS, and regulations of individual state regulatory authorities.  In that regard, our business and consolidated financial statements could be affected by one or more of the following:. • federal and state laws and regulations governing the purchase, distribution, management, compounding, dispensing and reimbursement of prescription drugs and related services, including state and federal controlled substances laws and regulations;. • rules and regulations issued pursuant to HIPAA and HITECH; and other federal and state laws affecting the use, disclosure and transmission of health information, such as state security breach notification laws and state laws limiting the use and disclosure of prescriber information;. • administration of Medicare and state Medicaid programs, including legislative changes and/or rulemaking and interpretation;. • federal and state laws and regulations that require reporting and public dissemination of payments to and between various health care providers and other industry participants;. • government regulation of the development, administration, review and updating of formularies and drug lists;. • managed care reform and plan design legislation, including state laws regarding out-of-network charges and participation; and. • federal or state laws governing our relationships with physicians or others in a position to refer to us.. The Affordable Care Act and other healthcare reform efforts could have a material adverse effect on our business.. In recent years, healthcare reform efforts at federal and state levels of government have resulted in sweeping changes to the delivery and financing of health care. The Affordable Care Act is the most prominent of these efforts. However, there is substantial uncertainty regarding its net effect and its future. The presidential administration and certain members of Congress continue to attempt to repeal or make significant changes to the Affordable Care Act, its implementation and its interpretation. It is impossible to predict the full impact of the Affordable Care Act and related regulations or the impact of its modification on our operations in light of the uncertainty regarding whether, when or how the law will be changed and what alternative reforms, if any, may be enacted. Health reform efforts may adversely affect our customers, which may cause them to reduce or delay use of our products and services. As such, we cannot predict the impact of the Affordable Care Act on our business, operations or financial performance.. Federal actions and legislation may reduce reimbursement rates from governmental payors and adversely affect our results of operations.. The Budget Control Act of 2011 requires automatic spending reductions to reduce the federal deficit, including Medicare spending reductions of up to 2% per fiscal year. CMS began imposing a 2% reduction on Medicare claims on April 1, 2013. These reductions have been extended through 2027.. 16. Table of Contents. In addition, the Affordable Care Act provides for material reductions in the growth of Medicare program spending.  From time to time, CMS revises the reimbursement systems used to reimburse health care providers, which may result in reduced Medicare payments.  Because most states must operate with balanced budgets and because the Medicaid program is often a state's largest program, some states have enacted or may consider enacting legislation designed to reduce their Medicaid expenditures.  Further, many states have taken steps to reduce coverage and/or enroll Medicaid recipients in managed care programs.  The current economic environment has increased the budgetary pressures on many states, and these budgetary pressures have resulted, and likely will continue to result, in decreased spending, or decreased spending growth, for Medicaid programs and the Children's Health Insurance Program in many states.  In addition, the Cures Act significantly reduced the amount paid by Medicare for the drug costs, while delaying the implementation of a clinical services payment, though Congress passed a temporary transitional service payment that takes effect January 1, 2019.. In some cases, Third Party Payors rely on all or portions of Medicare payment systems to determine payment rates.  Changes to government health care programs that reduce payments under these programs may negatively impact payments from Third Party Payors.  Current or future health care reform and deficit reduction efforts, changes in other laws or regulations affecting government health care programs, changes in the administration of government health care programs and changes by Third Party Payors could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. We face periodic reviews and billing audits by governmental and private payors, and these audits could have adverse findings that may negatively impact our business.. As a result of our participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, we are subject to various governmental reviews and audits to verify our compliance with these programs and applicable laws and regulations.  We also are subject to audits under various government programs in which third party firms engaged by CMS conduct extensive reviews of claims data and medical and other records to identify potential improper payments under the Medicare program.  Private pay sources may also conduct audits. Disputes with payors can arise from these reviews. Payors can claim that payments based on certain billing practices or billing errors were made incorrectly. If billing errors are identified in the sample of reviewed claims, the billing error can be extrapolated to all claims filed which could result in a larger overpayment than originally identified in the sample of reviewed claims.  Our costs to respond to and defend claims, reviews and audits may be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  Moreover, an adverse claim, review or audit could result in:. • required refunding or retroactive adjustment of amounts we have been paid by governmental or private payors;. • state or Federal agencies imposing fines, penalties and other sanctions on us;. • suspension or exclusion from the Medicare program, state programs, or one or more private payor networks; or. • damage to our business and reputation in various markets.. These results could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. If any of our pharmacies fail to comply with the conditions of participation in the Medicare program, that pharmacy could be terminated from Medicare, which could adversely affect our consolidated financial statements.. Our pharmacies must comply with the extensive conditions of participation in the Medicare program.  These conditions vary depending on the type of facility, but, in general, require our facilities to meet specified standards relating to licensure, personnel, patient rights, patient care, patient records, physical site, administrative reporting and legal compliance.  If a pharmacy fails to meet any of the Medicare supplier standards, that pharmacy could be terminated from the Medicare program.  We respond in the ordinary course to deficiency notices issued by surveyors, and none of our pharmacies has ever been terminated from the Medicare program for failure to comply with the supplier standards.  Any termination of one or more of our pharmacies from the Medicare program for failure to satisfy the Medicare supplier standards could adversely affect our consolidated financial statements.. We cannot predict the impact of changing requirements on compounding pharmacies.. Compounding pharmacies are closely monitored by federal and state governmental agencies.  We believe that our compounding is done in safe environments and we have clinically appropriate policies and procedures in place.  We only compound pursuant to a patient specific prescription and do so in compliance with USP 797 standards.  In 2013, Congress passed the DQSA, which creates a new category of compounders called outsourcing facilities, which are regulated by the FDA.  We do not believe that our current compounding practices qualify us as an outsourcing facility and therefore we continue to operate consistently with USP 797 standards.  Should state regulators or the FDA disagree, or should our business practices change to qualify us as an outsourcing facility, there is a risk of regulatory action and/or increased resources required to comply with federal requirements imposed. 17. Table of Contents. pursuant to the DQSA on outsourcing facilities that could significantly increase our costs or otherwise affect our results of operations.  Furthermore, we cannot predict the overall impact of increased scrutiny on compounding pharmacies.. Competition in the healthcare industry may adversely affect our business.. The healthcare industry is very competitive.  Our competitors include large and well-established companies that may have greater financial, marketing and technological resources than we do.  Some of our competitors are under common control with, or owned by, pharmaceutical wholesalers and distributors, managed care organizations, pharmacy benefit managers or retail pharmacy chains and may be better positioned with respect to the cost-effective distribution of pharmaceuticals.  In addition, some of our competitors may have secured long-term supply or distribution arrangements for prescription pharmaceuticals necessary to treat certain chronic disease states on price terms substantially more favorable than the terms currently available to us.  As a result of such advantageous pricing, we may be less price competitive than some of these competitors with respect to certain pharmaceutical products.  ACOs and other clinical integration models may result in lower reimbursement rates. Some of our competitors may negotiate exclusivity provisions with managed care plans or otherwise interfere with the ability of managed care companies to contract with us. Increasing consolidation in the payer and supplier industries, including vertical integration efforts among insurers and providers and suppliers, and cost-reduction strategies by large employer groups and their affiliates may limit our ability to negotiate favorable terms and conditions in our contracts and otherwise intensify competitive pressure.  In addition, our competitive position could be adversely affected by any inability to obtain access to new biotech pharmaceutical products.. Changes in the case mix of patients, as well as payment methodologies, payor mix or pricing could adversely affect our consolidated financial statements.. The sources and amounts of our patient revenue are determined by a number of factors, including the mix of patients and the rates of reimbursement among payors.  Changes in the case mix of the patients, payment methodologies, payor mix or pricing among private pay, Medicare and Medicaid may significantly affect our consolidated financial statements.. Changes in industry pricing benchmarks could adversely affect our financial performance.. Contracts within our business generally use certain published benchmarks to establish pricing for the reimbursement of prescription medications dispensed by us.  These benchmarks include AWP, wholesale acquisition cost and average manufacturer price.  Many of our contracts utilize the AWP benchmark.  Publication of the AWP benchmark was expected to cease in 2011 as a result of the settlement of class-action lawsuits brought against First DataBank and Medi-Span,  third-party publishers of various pricing benchmarks.  However, Medi-Span continues to publish the AWP benchmark and has indicated that it will continue to do so until a new benchmark is widely accepted. Several industry participants have explored establishing a new benchmark but there is not currently a viable generally accepted alternative to the AWP benchmark. Without a suitable pricing benchmark in place many of our contracts will have to be modified and could potentially change the economic structure of our agreements.. Contract renewals, or lack thereof, with key revenue sources and key business relationships could result in less favorable pricing, loss of exclusivity and/or reduced distribution and access to customers, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have contractual and business relationships with key revenue sources, including Third Party Payors.  Our future growth and success depends on our ability to maintain these relationships and renew such contracts on acceptable terms.  However, we may not be able to continue to maintain these relationships. We may have disputes with Third Party Payors regarding these contractual relationships; these disputes may also disrupt our ongoing contractual relationships with these payors. Any break in these key business relationships could result in lost contracts and reduce our access to certain customers and distribution channels.  Further, when these contracts near expiration, we may not be able to successfully renegotiate acceptable terms.  Any increase in pricing or loss of exclusivity could result in reduced margins.  Accordingly, it is possible that our ongoing efforts to renew contracts and business relationships with such key revenue sources as Third Party Payors could result in less favorable pricing or even reduced access to customers and distribution channels, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, even when such contracts are renewed, they may be renewed for only a short term or may be terminable on relatively short notice.. We and certain of our former directors and executive officers were named as defendants in a derivative complaint and we may be subject to similar lawsuits in the future.. Certain of our current and former directors and executive officers were named as defendants in a derivative complaint (the \"Derivative Complaint\") that generally alleged that certain defendants breached their fiduciary duties with respect to the Company's. 18. Table of Contents. public disclosures, oversight of Company operations, secondary stock offerings and stock sales.  The Company was also named as a nominal defendant in the Derivative Complaint.  The Derivative Complaint also contended that certain defendants aided and abetted those alleged breaches. On April 18, 2017, the Court granted the defendants' motion to dismiss, and on November 27, 2017 the Delaware Supreme Court affirmed the dismissal. Additional demands and lawsuits related to the same facts and circumstances, however, could be pursued in the future.. In that event, there is no assurance that any defenses will be successful or that insurance will be available or adequate to fund any settlement, judgment or litigation costs associated with this action.  Certain of the defendants may also seek indemnification from the Company pursuant to certain indemnification agreements, for which there may be no insurance coverage.. Any conclusion in this matter or in any related manner adverse to us would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and business and the Company.  We could incur substantial costs not covered by our directors' and officers' liability insurance, suffer a significant adverse impact on our reputation and divert management's attention and resources from other priorities, including the execution of business plans and strategies that are important to our ability to grow our business, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business.. Pending and future litigation could subject us to significant monetary damages and/or require us to change our business practices.. We are subject to risks relating to asserted claims, litigation and other proceedings in connection with our operations. We are or may face claims or become a party to a variety of legal actions that affect our business, including breach of contract actions, employment and employment discrimination-related suits, employee benefit claims, stockholder suits and other securities laws claims, and tort claims. We may incur substantial expenses in defending such claims or litigation, regardless of merit, and such claims or litigation could result in a significant diversion of the efforts of our management personnel. Successful claims against us may result in monetary liability or a material disruption in the conduct of our business. See Item 3-Legal Proceedings for a description of material proceedings pending against us.  We believe that these suits are without merit and, to the extent not already concluded, intend to contest them vigorously.  However, an adverse outcome in one or more of these suits may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, consolidated financial position and/or consolidated cash flow from operations, or may require us to make material changes to our business practices.. We periodically respond to subpoenas and requests for information from governmental agencies.  To our knowledge, we are not a target or a potential subject of a criminal investigation.  But we cannot predict with certainty whether we may in the future become a target or potential target of an investigation or the subject of further inquiries or ultimately settlements with respect to the subject matter of any subpoenas.  In addition to potential monetary liability arising from suits and proceedings, from time to time we incur costs in providing documents to government agencies.  Current pending claims and associated costs may be covered by our insurance, but certain other costs are not insured.  Such costs may increase and/or continue to be material to our performance in the future.. In addition, as we continue our strategic assessment and cost reduction efforts, there is an increased risk of employment and workers compensation-related litigation and/or administrative claims brought against us.  We would defend against any and all such litigation and claims, as appropriate.  Such claims could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements in any particular reporting period.. Our acquisition strategy exposes us to a variety of operational and financial risks.. A principal element of our historic business strategy has been to grow by acquiring other companies and assets in the home infusion and complementary businesses.  Growth, especially rapid growth, through acquisitions exposes us to a variety of operational and financial risks.  We summarize the most significant of these risks below.. Integration risks.  We must integrate our acquisitions with our existing operations.  This process includes the integration of the various components of our business (including the following) and of the businesses we have acquired or may acquire in the future:. • health care professionals and employees who are not familiar with our policies and procedures;. • clients who may terminate their relationships with us;. • key employees who may seek employment elsewhere;. • patients who may elect to switch to another health care provider;. • regulatory compliance programs; and. • disparate operating, information and record keeping systems and technology platforms.. 19. Table of Contents. Integrating an acquisition could be expensive and time consuming and could disrupt our ongoing business, negatively affect cash flow and distract management and other key personnel from day-to-day operations.. We may not be able to combine successfully the operations of acquired companies with our operations, and, even if such integration is accomplished, we may never realize the potential benefits of the acquisition.  The integration of acquisitions requires significant attention from management, may impose substantial demands on our operations or other projects and may impose challenges on the combined business including, but not limited to, consistencies in business standards, procedures, policies and business cultures.  If we fail to complete ongoing integration efforts, we may never fully realize the potential benefits of the related acquisitions.. Benefits may not materialize.  When evaluating potential acquisition targets, we identify potential synergies and cost savings that we expect to realize upon the successful completion of the acquisition and the integration of the related operations.  We may, however, be unable to achieve or may otherwise never realize the expected benefits.  Our ability to realize the expected benefits from improvements to companies we acquire are subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control, such as changes to government regulation governing or otherwise impacting our industry, reductions in reimbursement rates from  Third Party Payors, reductions in service levels under our contracts, operating difficulties, client preferences, changes in competition and general economic or industry conditions.  If we are unsuccessful in implementing these improvements or if we do not achieve our expected results, it may adversely impact our results of operations.. Assumptions of unknown liabilities.  Companies that we acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including, but not limited to, liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare laws and regulations.  We may incur material liabilities for the past activities of acquired operations.  Such liabilities and related legal or other costs and/or resulting damage to our reputation could negatively impact our business through lower-than-expected operating results, charges for impairment of acquired intangible assets or otherwise.. Competing for acquisitions.  We face competition for acquisition candidates primarily from other home infusion and other healthcare companies.  Some of our competitors have greater resources than we do.  As a result, we may pay more to acquire a target business or may agree to less favorable deal terms than we would have otherwise.  Accurately assessing the value of acquisition candidates is often very challenging.  Also, suitable acquisitions may not be available due to unfavorable terms.. Further, the cost of an acquisition could result in a dilutive effect on our results of operations, depending on various factors, including employee severance costs, certain legal and professional fees, training costs, redundant wage costs, impacts recorded from the change in contingent consideration obligations, and other costs related to contract terminations and closed branches/offices.. Improving financial results.  Some of the operations we have acquired or may acquire in the future may have had significantly lower operating margins than our current operations.  If we fail to improve the operating margins of the companies we acquire, operate such companies profitably or effectively integrate the operations of the acquired companies, our results of operations could be negatively impacted.. Acquisitions, strategic investments and strategic relationships involve certain risks.. We may pursue opportunistic acquisitions, strategic investments in, or strategic relationships with businesses and technologies.  Acquisitions may entail numerous risks, including difficulties in assessing values for acquired businesses, intangible assets and technologies, difficulties in the assimilation of acquired operations and products, diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, assumption of unknown material liabilities of acquired companies, amortization of acquired intangible assets which could reduce future reported earnings, and potential loss of clients or key employees of acquired companies.  We may not be able to successfully fully integrate the operations, personnel, services or products that we have acquired or may acquire in the future.  Strategic investments may also entail some of the risks described above.  If these investments are unsuccessful, we may need to incur charges against earnings.  We may also pursue a number of strategic relationships.  These relationships and others we may enter into in the future may be important to our business and growth prospects.  We may not be able to maintain these relationships or develop new strategic alliances.. We may incur significant costs in connection with our evaluation of new business opportunities and suitable acquisition candidates.. Our management intends to identify, analyze and evaluate potential new business opportunities, including possible acquisition and merger candidates.  We may incur significant costs, such as due diligence and legal and other professional fees and expenses,. 20. Table of Contents. as part of these efforts.  Notwithstanding these efforts and expenditures, we may not be able to identify an appropriate new business opportunity, or any acquisition opportunity, in the near term, or at all.. If our remedial measures are insufficient to address material weaknesses and we are unable to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, timely file our periodic reports, maintain our reporting status or prevent fraud.. During fiscal year 2017, management identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting with respect to the continuous risk assessment process and monitoring activities meant to identify possible risks of material misstatement in our financial reporting processes. In connection with management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, we concluded there was a material weakness related to internal controls as described in Item 9A - Controls and Procedures. While we have implemented certain measures that we believe will remediate this material weakness, we can provide no assurance that our remediation efforts will be effective. The Company's remediation plan is also described in Item 9A - Controls and Procedures.. Under standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, a material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented, detected or corrected on a timely basis.. If additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting are discovered or occur in the future, there exists a risk that our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements that are unknown to us at that time, and such misstatements could require us to restate our financial results. Our management or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify other material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. The existence of a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting may result in current and potential stockholders losing confidence in our financial reporting, which could negatively impact the market price of our common stock (\"Common Stock\").. In addition, the existence of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting may affect our ability to timely file periodic reports under the Exchange Act and may consequently result in the SEC revoking the registration of our Common Stock, the NASDAQ Global Market delisting our Common Stock or a default or an event of default under our Notes Facilities and our 2021 Notes (each, as defined below). Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our Common Stock or on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be subject to liability claims for damages and other expenses that are not covered by insurance.. A successful product or professional liability claim in excess of our insurance coverage could harm our consolidated financial statements.  Various aspects of our business may subject us to litigation and liability for damages.  For example, a prescription drug dispensing error could result in a patient receiving the wrong or incorrect amount of medication, leading to personal injury or death.  Our business and consolidated financial statements could suffer if we pay damages or defense costs in connection with a claim that is outside the scope of any applicable contractual indemnity or insurance coverage.. Changes in our relationships with pharmaceutical suppliers, including changes in drug availability or pricing, could adversely affect our business and financial results.. We have contractual relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers to purchase the drugs that we dispense.  Any changes to these relationships, including, but not limited, to loss of a manufacturer relationship, drug shortages or changes in pricing, could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results.. We purchase a majority of our pharmaceutical products from one vendor and a disruption in our purchasing arrangements could adversely impact our business.. We purchase a majority of our prescription products, subject to certain minimum periodic purchase levels and excluding purchases of therapeutic plasma products, from a single wholesaler, AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation (\"ABDC\"), pursuant to a prime vendor agreement.  The term of this agreement extends until December 2019, subject to extension for up to two additional years.  Any significant disruption in our relationship with ABDC, or in ABDC's supply and timely delivery of products to us, would make it difficult and possibly more costly for us to continue to operate our business until we are able to execute a replacement wholesaler agreement.  If that were to occur, we may not be able to find a replacement wholesaler on a timely basis.  Further, such wholesaler may not be able to fulfill our demands on similar financial terms and service levels.  If we are unable to identify a. 21. Table of Contents. replacement on substantially similar financial terms and/or service levels, our consolidated financial statements may be materially and adversely affected.. A disruption in supply could adversely impact our business.. We also source pharmaceuticals, medical supplies and equipment from other manufacturers, distributors and wholesalers.  Most of the pharmaceuticals that we purchase are available from multiple sources, and we believe they are available in sufficient quantities to meet our needs and the needs of our patients.  We keep safety stock to ensure continuity of service for reasonable, but limited, periods of time.  Should a supply disruption result in the inability to obtain especially high margin drugs and compound components necessary for patient care, our consolidated financial statements could be negatively impacted.. Prescription volumes may decline, and our net revenues and profitability may be negatively impacted, when products are withdrawn from the market or when increased safety risk profiles of specific drugs result in utilization decreases.. We dispense significant volumes of prescription medications from our pharmacies.  Our dispensing volume is the principal driver of revenue and profitability.  When products are withdrawn by manufacturers, or when increased safety risk profiles of specific drugs or classes of drugs result in utilization decreases, physicians may cease writing or reduce the numbers of prescriptions written for these higher-risk drugs.  Additionally, negative media reports regarding drugs with higher safety risk profiles may result in reduced consumer demand for such drugs.  In cases where there are no acceptable prescription drug equivalents or alternatives for these prescription drugs, our prescription volumes, net revenues, profitability and cash flows may decline.. Home infusion joint ventures formed with hospitals could adversely affect our financial results.. The home infusion industry is currently seeing renewed activity in the formation of equity-based infusion joint ventures formed with hospitals.  This activity stems, in part, from hospitals seeking to position themselves for new paradigms in the delivery of coordinated healthcare and new methods of payment, including an emerging interdisciplinary care model forming that is being labeled as an ACO. These organizations are encouraged by the Affordable Care Act.  These entities are designed to save money and improve quality of care by better integrating care, with the healthcare provider possibly sharing in the financial benefits of the new efficiencies.. Participation in equity-based joint ventures offer hospitals and other providers an opportunity to more efficiently transfer patients to less expensive care settings, while keeping the patient within its network.  Additionally, it provides many hospitals with a mechanism to invest accumulated profits in a growing sector with attractive margins.. If these home infusion joint ventures continue to expand, then we could lose referrals and our consolidated financial statements could be adversely affected.  Also, there are risks and costs associated with joint venture participation.  We consider joint ventures with hospitals from time to time.. A shortage of qualified registered nursing staff, pharmacists and other professionals could adversely affect our ability to attract, train and retrain qualified personnel and could increase operating costs.. Our business relies significantly on its ability to attract and retain nursing staff, pharmacists and other professionals who possess the skills, experience and licenses necessary to meet the requirements of their job responsibilities.  From time to time and particularly in recent years, there have been shortages of nursing staff, pharmacists and other professionals in certain local and regional markets.  As a result, we are often required to compete for personnel with other healthcare systems and our competitors. Our ability to attract and retain personnel depends on several factors, including our ability to provide them with engaging assignments and competitive salaries and benefits.  We may not be successful in any of these areas.. In addition, where labor shortages arise in markets in which we operate, we may face higher costs to attract personnel, and we may have to provide them with more attractive benefit packages than originally anticipated or are being paid in other markets where such shortages don't exist at the time.  In either case, such circumstances could cause our profitability to decline.  Finally, if we expand our operations into geographic areas where healthcare providers historically have unionized or unionization occurs in our existing geographic areas, negotiating collective bargaining agreements may have a negative effect on our ability to timely and successfully recruit qualified personnel and on our financial results.  If we are unable to attract and retain nursing staff, pharmacists and other professionals, the quality of our services may decline and we could lose patients and referral sources.. 22. Table of Contents. Introduction of new drugs or accelerated adoption of existing lower margin drugs could cause us to experience lower revenues and profitability when prescribers prescribe these drugs for their patients or they are mandated by third party payors.. The pharmaceutical industry pipeline of new drugs includes many drugs that over the long term may replace older, more expensive therapies.  As a result of such older drugs going off patent and being replaced by generic substitutes, new and less expensive delivery methods (such as when an infusion or injectable drug is replaced with an oral drug) or additional products are added to a therapeutic class, thereby increasing price competition among competing manufacturer's products in that therapeutic category.  In such cases, manufacturers have the ability to increase drug acquisition costs or lower the selling price of replaced products.  This could have the effect of lowering our revenues and/or margins.. Acts of God such as major weather disturbances could disrupt our business.. We operate in a network of prescribers, providers, patients and facilities that can be negatively impacted by local weather disturbances and other force majeure events.  For example, in anticipation of major weather events, patients with impaired health may be moved to alternate sites.  After a major weather event, availability of electricity, clean water and transportation can impact our ability to provide service in the home.  In addition, acts of God and other force majeure events may cause a reduction in our business or increased costs, such as increased costs in our operations as we incur overtime charges or redirect services to other locations, delays in our ability to work with payors, hospitals, physicians and other strategic partners on new business initiatives, and disruption to referral patterns as patients are moved out of facilities affected by such events or are unable to return to sites of service in the home.. Failure to develop new services or adapt to changes and trends within the industry may adversely affect our business.. We operate in a highly competitive environment.  We develop new services from time to time to assist our clients.  If we are unsuccessful in developing innovative services, our ability to attract new clients and retain existing clients may suffer.. Technology, including the ability to capture and report outcomes, is also an important component of our business as we continue to utilize new and better channels to communicate and interact with our clients, members and business partners.  If our competitors are more successful than us in employing this technology, our ability to attract new clients, retain existing clients and operate efficiently may suffer.  Any significant shifts in the structure of the healthcare products and services industry in general could alter the industry dynamics and adversely affect our ability to attract or retain clients.  Our failure to anticipate or appropriately adapt to changes in the industry could negatively impact our competitive position and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Cybersecurity risks could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which may harm our ability to operate effectively and may cause our business and reputation to suffer.. Cybersecurity refers to the combination of technologies, processes and procedures established to protect information technology systems and data from unauthorized access, attack, or damage.  We rely on our information systems to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential information about our patients, customers and personnel, such as names, addresses and other individually identifiable information protected by HIPAA and other privacy laws.  Cyber-attacks are increasingly more common, including in the health care industry.  The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and changing requirements.  Compliance with changes in privacy and information security laws and with rapidly evolving industry standards may result in our incurring significant expense due to increased investment in technology and the development of new operational processes.. We have not experienced any known attacks on our information technology systems that compromised any confidential information.  We maintain our information technology systems with safeguard protection against cyber-attacks including passive intrusion protection, firewalls and virus detection software.  However, these safeguards do not ensure that a significant cyber-attack could not occur.  Although we have taken steps to protect the security of our information systems and the data maintained in those systems, it is possible that our safety and security measures will not prevent the systems' improper functioning or damage or the improper access or disclosure of personally identifiable information such as in the event of cyber-attacks.. Security breaches, including physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers and similar breaches can create system disruptions or shutdowns or the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information.  If personal information or protected health information is improperly accessed, tampered with or disclosed as a result of a security breach, we may incur significant costs to notify and mitigate potential harm to the affected individuals, and we may be subject to sanctions and civil or criminal penalties if we are found to be in violation of the privacy or security rules under HIPAA or other similar federal or state laws protecting confidential personal information.  In addition, a security breach of our information systems could damage our. 23. Table of Contents. reputation, subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties for compromised personal information and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The success of our business depends on maintaining a well-secured business and technology infrastructure.. We are dependent on our infrastructure, including our information systems, for many aspects of our business operations.  A fundamental requirement for our business is the secure storage and transmission of protected health information and other confidential data.  Our business and operations may be harmed if we do not maintain our business processes and information systems in a secure manner, and maintain and continually improve the integrity of our confidential information.  Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect information against security breaches, failure to protect our confidential information or mitigate harm caused by such breaches may adversely affect our operating results.  Malfunctions in our business processes, breaches of our information systems or the failure to maintain effective and up-to-date information systems could disrupt our business operations, result in customer and member disputes, damage our reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation, result in regulatory violations and related costs and penalties, increase administrative expenses or lead to other adverse consequences.. Our business is dependent on the services provided by third party information technology vendors.. Our information technology infrastructure includes hosting services provided by third parties.  While we believe these third parties are high-performing organizations with secure platforms and customary certifications, they could suffer a security breach or business interruption which in turn could impact our operations negatively.  In addition, changes in pricing terms charged by our technology vendors may adversely affect our financial performance.. Our failure to maintain controls and processes over billing and collecting could have a significant negative impact on our consolidated financial statements.. The collection of accounts receivable is a significant challenge, and requires constant focus and involvement by management and ongoing enhancements to information systems and billing center operating procedures.  If we are unable to properly bill and collect our accounts receivable, our results could be materially and adversely affected.. Delays in payment may adversely affect our working capital.. Our business is characterized by delays from the time we provide services to the time we receive payment for these services.  If we have difficulty in obtaining documentation, experience information system problems or experience other issues that arise with Medicare or other payors, we may encounter additional delays in our payment cycle.. In addition, timing delays may cause working capital shortages.  Working capital management, including prompt and diligent billing and collection, is an important factor in achieving our financial results and maintaining liquidity.  It is possible that documentation support, system problems, Medicare or other provider issues or industry trends may extend our collection period, which may materially adversely affect our working capital, and our working capital management procedures may not successfully mitigate this risk.. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for U.S. federal tax purposes is subject to limitation and risk that could further limit our ability to utilize our net operating losses.. Under U.S. federal income tax law, a corporation's ability to utilize its net operating losses (\"NOLs\") to offset future taxable income may be significantly limited if it experiences an \"ownership change\" as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended.  In general, an ownership change will occur if there is a cumulative change in a corporation's ownership by \"5-percent shareholders\" that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period.  A corporation that experiences an ownership change will generally be subject to an annual limitation on the use of its pre-ownership change NOLs equal to the value of the corporation immediately before the ownership change, multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt rate (subject to certain adjustments).  The annual limitation for a taxable year generally is increased by the amount of any \"recognized built-in gains\" for such year and the amount of any unused annual limitation in a prior year.  On December 22, 2017, a law commonly known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"TCJA\") was enacted in the United States. Certain provisions of the TCJA impact the ability to utilize NOLs generated in 2018 and forward; any limitation to our annual use of NOLs could require us to pay a greater amount of U.S. federal (and in some cases, state) income taxes, which could reduce our after-tax income from operations for future taxable years and adversely impact our financial condition.. 24. Table of Contents. Changes to federal and state income tax laws and regulations could adversely affect our position or income taxes and estimated income liabilities.. We are subject to both state and federal income taxes in the U.S. and our operations, plans and results are affected by tax and other initiatives. The TCJA will impact our financial results beginning in 2018. Among other things, the TCJA reduces the U.S. corporate income tax rate to 21%, this reduction resulted in changes in the valuation of our deferred tax asset and liabilities.. We are also subject to regular reviews, examinations, and audits by the Internal Revenue Service and other taxing authorities with respect to our taxes. There are uncertainties and ambiguities in the application of the TCJA and it is possible that the IRS could issue subsequent guidance or take positions on audit that differ from our interpretations and assumptions. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if a taxing authority disagrees with the positions we have taken, we could face additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in states with different statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws and regulations, changes in our interpretations of tax laws, including the TCJA. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. There can be no assurance that payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes will not have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position.. The issuance of shares of our Preferred Stock reduced the percentage interests of our other stockholders, and any future exercise of the Class A and Class B Warrants or the 2017 Warrants will further reduce the percentage interests of our other stockholders.. On March 9, 2015, we entered into a securities purchase agreement (the \"Purchase Agreement\") with Coliseum Capital Partners, L.P., Coliseum Capital Partners II, L.P., and Blackwell Partners, LLC, Series A (collectively, the \"PIPE Investors\").  Pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, we issued and sold to the PIPE Investors in a private placement an aggregate of (a) 625,000 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.0001 per share (the \"Series A Preferred Stock\"), at a purchase price per share of $100.00, (b) 1,800,000 Class A warrants (the \"Class A Warrants\"), and (c) 1,800,000 Class B warrants (the \"Class B Warrants\" and, together with the Class A Warrants, the \"PIPE Warrants\"), for gross proceeds of $62.5 million.  We also conducted a Rights Offering (as described below) pursuant to which we sold an additional 10,822 shares of Series A Preferred Stock along with the PIPE Warrants.  On June 10, 2016, in order to facilitate the 2016 Equity Offering, the Company and the PIPE Investors agreed to exchange 614,177 shares of the existing Series A Preferred Stock for an identical number of shares of Series B Preferred Stock.  On June 14, 2016, in order to facilitate the 2016 Equity Offering, the Company and the PIPE Investors agreed to exchange 614,177 shares of the Series B Preferred Stock for an identical number of shares of Series C Preferred Stock (the Series C Preferred Stock, together with the Series A Preferred Stock, the \"Preferred Stock\").  As a result of these exchanges, there are currently (a) 21,645 shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding, of which 10,823 shares are owned by the PIPE Investors, (b) no shares of Series B Preferred Stock outstanding, and (c) 614,177 shares of Series C Preferred Stock outstanding, all of which are owned by the PIPE Investors.. In addition, in connection with the Second Lien Note Facility, the Company also issued the 2017 Warrants to the purchasers of the Second Lien Notes pursuant to the Warrant Purchase Agreement. The 2017 Warrants entitle the purchasers of the 2017 Warrants to purchase shares of Common Stock, representing at the time of any exercise of the 2017 Warrants an equivalent number of shares equal to 4.99% of the Common Stock of the Company on a fully diluted basis, subject to the terms of the Warrant Agreement.. As of the date of this Annual Report, if all holders of the Preferred Stock converted their shares in full, and exercised the PIPE Warrants and the 2017 Warrants in full, their aggregate beneficial ownership would be approximately 22.9% of our outstanding Common Stock.  The issuance of the Preferred Stock to the PIPE Investors reduced the relative voting power and percentage ownership interests of our other current stockholders.  The future exercise of the PIPE Warrants by the holders of those securities will cause a further reduction in the relative voting power and percentage ownership interests of our other stockholders.. The PIPE Investors may exercise influence over us, including through their ability to influence matters requiring the approval of holders of our Common Stock or Preferred Stock.. Holders of the Preferred Stock are entitled to vote on an as-converted basis upon all matters upon which holders of our Common Stock have the right to vote.  The shares of Preferred Stock owned by the PIPE Investors currently represent approximately 13% of the voting rights in respect of our share capital on an as-converted basis, and accordingly the PIPE Investors may have the ability to significantly influence the outcome of most matters submitted for the vote of our stockholders.  The PIPE Investors are. 25. Table of Contents. currently the beneficial owners of 625,000 of the 635,822 shares of our Series A and Series C Preferred Stock.. Further, so long as shares of the Series C Preferred Stock represent at least 5% of our outstanding voting stock (on an as converted into Common Stock basis), the holders of our Series C Preferred Stock are entitled to designate one member of the Board by a majority of the voting power of the outstanding shares of Series C Preferred Stock.  The PIPE Investors are currently the beneficial owners of all 614,177 issued and outstanding shares of our Series C Preferred Stock.. The PIPE Investors' majority ownership of our Series A and Series C Preferred Stock will limit the ability of any current or future holders of such series of Preferred Stock to influence corporate matters requiring the approval of the holders of such series of Preferred Stock, including the right, voting as a separate class, to elect one director to our Board, and to approve certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation, or certain other changes, that would adversely affect the holders of the series of Preferred Stock.  The PIPE Investors' voting power of the Preferred Stock may also delay, defer or even prevent an acquisition by a third party or other change of control of our company to the extent that the consideration that would be received by the PIPE Investors and other holders of Preferred Stock in such acquisition or change of control is less than their liquidation preference, and may make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of the PIPE Investors, even if such events are in the best interests of our other stockholders.  Accordingly, the ownership position and the governance rights of the PIPE Investors could discourage a third party from proposing a change of control or other strategic transaction with us.  In any of these matters, the interests of the PIPE Investors may differ from or conflict with the interests of our other stockholders.. In addition, the PIPE Investors are in the business of making investments in companies and may, from time to time, acquire interests in businesses that directly or indirectly compete with our business, as well as businesses that are significant existing or potential customers.. Changes in future business conditions could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill to become further impaired, and our financial condition and results of operations could suffer if there is an additional impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets with indefinite lives.. We are required to test intangible assets with indefinite lives, including goodwill, annually and on an interim basis if an event occurs or there is a change in circumstance to indicate that the carrying value of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets may no longer be recoverable.  When the carrying value of a reporting unit's goodwill exceeds its implied fair value of goodwill, a charge to operations is recorded.  If the carrying amount of an intangible asset with an indefinite life exceeds its fair value, a charge to operations is recognized.  Either event would result in incremental expenses for that quarter, which would reduce any earnings or increase any loss for the period in which the impairment was determined to have occurred.. As previously disclosed, in 2015, we determined it was necessary to record a $251.9 million non-cash impairment charge related to goodwill associated with our Infusion Services business. The estimated impairment took into consideration our updated business outlook, pursuant to which we updated our future cash flow assumptions and calculated updated estimates of fair value. The estimated impairment loss was equal to the excess of the assets' carrying amount over its fair value as determined by an analysis of discounted future cash flows. In connection with our annual assessment of possible goodwill impairment during the fourth quarter of 2017, we concluded no further impairment charge was needed (see Note 7 - Goodwill and Intangible Assets).. Our goodwill impairment analysis is sensitive to changes in key assumptions used in our analysis, such as the degree of volatility in equity and debt markets and our stock price.  If the assumptions used in our analysis are not realized, it is possible that an additional impairment charge may need to be recorded in the future.  We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets.  Further, as we continue to work towards a turnaround of our business, we will need to continue to evaluate the carrying value of our goodwill.  Any additional impairment charges that we may take in the future could be material to our results of operations and financial condition.. Failure to maintain effective internal control over our financial reporting could have an adverse effect on our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis.. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the \"Exchange Act\"), and is required to evaluate the effectiveness of these controls and procedures on a periodic basis and publicly disclose the results of these evaluations and related matters in accordance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, to help mitigate the risk of fraud and to operate successfully.  However, testing and maintaining our internal control over financial reporting can be expensive and divert our management's attention from other business matters. Any failure to implement and maintain effective internal controls could result in material weaknesses or material misstatements in our consolidated financial statements.. 26. Table of Contents. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified attestation report on our internal control, we may be required to take corrective measures or restate the affected historical financial statements.  In addition, we may be subjected to investigations and/or sanctions by federal and state securities regulators, and/or civil lawsuits by security holders. Any of the foregoing could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and in our company and would likely result in a decline in the market price of our stock and in our ability to raise additional financing if needed in the future.. New accounting pronouncements or new interpretations of existing standards could require us to make adjustments in our accounting policies that could affect our financial statements.. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (\"GAAP\"). The Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC, or other accounting organizations or governmental entities frequently issue new pronouncements or new interpretations of existing accounting standards.  Changes in accounting standards, how the accounting standards are interpreted, or the adoption of new accounting standards can have a significant effect on our reported results, and could even retroactively affect previously reported transactions, and may require that we make significant changes to our systems, processes and controls.. Changes resulting from these new standards may result in materially different financial results and may require that we change how we process, analyze and report financial information and that we change financial reporting controls.  Such changes in accounting standards may have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, and income, which may negatively impact our financial results.. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02 - Leases (Topic 842), requiring lessees to recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with the exception of short-term leases. For lessees, leases will continue to be classified as either operating or finance leases in the income statement. The Company is evaluating the effect that the updated standard will have on its consolidated financial statements.. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness. We have incurred substantial indebtedness, which imposes operating and financial restrictions on us that, together with the resulting debt service obligations, may significantly limit our ability to execute our business strategy and may increase the risk of default under our debt obligations.. On June 29, 2017, the Company entered into (i) a first lien note purchase agreement, among the Company, which is the issuer under the agreement, the financial institutions and note purchasers from time to time party to the agreement, pursuant to which the Company issued first lien senior secured notes in an aggregate principal amount of $200.0 million; and (ii) a second lien note purchase agreement among the Company, which is the issuer under the agreement, the financial institutions and note purchasers from time to time party to the agreement, pursuant to which the Company (a) issued second lien senior secured notes in an aggregate initial principal amount of $100.0 million and (b) has the ability to draw upon the Second Lien Note Facility and issue second lien delayed draw senior secured notes in an aggregate initial principal amount of $10.0 million for a period of 18 months after the closing date, subject to certain terms and conditions. The Company used the proceeds of the sale of the First Lien Notes and the Initial Second Lien Notes to repay in full all amounts outstanding under the Prior Credit Agreements and extinguished the liability. Each of the Prior Credit Agreements was terminated following such repayment. The Notes accrue interest, payable monthly in arrears, at a floating rate. The First Lien Notes will amortize in equal quarterly installments equal to 0.625% of the aggregate principal amount of the First Lien Note Facility, commencing on September 30, 2019, and on the last day of each third month thereafter, with the balance payable at maturity. The First Lien Notes mature on August 15, 2020, provided that if the Company's 2021 Notes (defined below) are refinanced prior to August 15, 2020, then the scheduled maturity date of the First Lien Notes shall be June 30, 2022.  Our indebtedness includes many covenants and restrictions that may significantly limit the types of strategic relationships and our ability to execute our business strategy.. In addition, we have issued $200.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 8.875% senior notes due 2021 (the \"2021 Notes\"). See \"Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources.\"  The 2021 Notes are our senior unsecured obligations and are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by all existing and future subsidiaries of the Company.  Interest is payable semi-annually on February 15 and August 15.. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants of our debt instruments, including the Notes Facilities and the indenture governing the 2021 Notes, may adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in our interest.  The terms of the Notes Facilities require us to comply with certain financial covenants.. 27. Table of Contents. In addition, subject to a number of important exceptions, the Notes Facilities contain certain covenants and restrictions impacting our ability to, among other things:. • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred stock;. • transfer or sell assets;. • make certain investments and loans;. • pay dividends or distributions, redeem subordinated indebtedness, or make other restricted payments;. • create or incur liens;. • incur dividend or other payment restrictions affecting certain subsidiaries;. • issue capital stock of our subsidiaries;. • enter into hedging transactions or sale and leaseback transactions;. • consummate a merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or the assets of any of our subsidiaries; and. • enter into transactions with affiliates.. The indenture governing the 2021 Notes contains similar restrictions.  Our ability to comply with these covenants, including the financial covenants, may be affected by events beyond our control.  Therefore, in order to engage in some corporate actions, we may need to seek permission from our lenders or the note holders, whose interests may be different from ours.  We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain consent from these parties when needed.  If we do not comply with the restrictions and covenants in our Notes Facilities, we may not be able to finance our future operations, make acquisitions or pursue business opportunities.  The restrictions contained in our Notes Facilities may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business and may make it difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted.. A breach of any of these covenants or the inability to comply with the required financial ratio could result in a default under the Notes Facilities.  If any such default occurs, the lenders under the respective Notes Facilities may elect to declare all of their respective outstanding debt, together with accrued interest and other amounts payable thereunder, to be immediately due and payable.  Under such circumstances, we may not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations.  In addition, the limitations imposed on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other corporate actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing.. There can be no assurance that we will be granted future waivers or amendments to the restrictions in the Notes Facilities if for any reason we are unable to comply with such restrictions or that we will be able to refinance our debt on terms acceptable to us, or at all.. The lenders under the Notes Facilities also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings.  If we were unable to pay such amounts, the lenders under the Notes Facilities could recover amounts owed to them by foreclosing against the collateral pledged to them.  We have pledged a substantial portion of our assets to the lenders under the Notes Facilities, including the equity of all of the Company's subsidiaries.. In addition, the degree to which we are leveraged could:. • make us more vulnerable to general adverse economic, regulatory and industry conditions;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes and opportunities in the markets in which we compete;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to service our debt, reducing the availability of our cash flow and such proceeds to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; or. • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or exploiting other business opportunities.. To service our indebtedness and other obligations, we will require a significant amount of cash.  Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control, and any failure to meet our debt obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including the First Lien Note Facility, for which principal payments are required beginning in 2019, the Second Lien Note Facility, and the 2021 Notes, and to fund working capital needs and planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future.  A significant reduction in our operating cash flows resulting from changes in economic conditions, changes in government reimbursement rates or methods, increased competition or other events beyond our control could increase the need for additional or alternative sources of liquidity and could. 28. Table of Contents. have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial statements, prospects and our ability to service our debt and other obligations.. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under the Note Facilities or otherwise in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, including our indebtedness under the First Lien Note Facility, the Second Lien Note Facility, and the 2021 Notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs.  Our inability to pay our debts would require us to pursue one or more alternative strategies, such as selling assets, refinancing all or a portion of our indebtedness or selling equity capital.  However, our alternative strategies may not be feasible at the time or may not provide adequate funds to allow us to pay our debts as they come due and fund our other liquidity needs.  In addition, some alternative strategies are likely to require the prior consent of our Notes Facilities lenders, which we may not be able to obtain.. Despite our substantial indebtedness, we may still need to incur significantly more debt.  This could exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage.. We may need to incur substantial additional indebtedness, including additional secured indebtedness, in the future, in connection with future acquisitions, strategic investments and strategic relationships.  Although the First Lien Note Facility, the Second Lien Note Facility and the indenture governing the 2021 Notes contain covenants and restrictions on the incurrence of additional debt, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions and, under certain circumstances, debt incurred in compliance with these restrictions, including secured debt, could be substantial.  Adding additional debt to current debt levels could exacerbate the leverage-related risks described above."
