[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. The factors discussed below are cautionary statements that identify important factors and risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  For more information regarding the forward-looking statements contained in this report, see the Table of Contents of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in considering our business and prospects.  The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing BioTelemetry.  Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us may also impair our business operations.  The occurrence of any of the following risks could affect our business, liquidity, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. Our businesses and those of many of our clients have been and continue to be subject to increased legislation and regulatory scrutiny, and we face the risk of changes to this regulatory environment and business in the future.. U.S. income tax reform efforts could have a material impact on our business.  On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"TCJA\") was signed into law.  The TCJA enacts broad changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax code, including reducing the federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% beginning in 2018, amongst many other complex provisions.  The ultimate impact of such tax reforms may differ from our current estimates due to changes in interpretations and assumptions made by us as well as the issuance of any further regulations or guidance that may alter the operation of the U.S. federal income tax code.  Various uncertainties also exist in terms of how U.S. states and any foreign countries within which we operate will react to these U.S. federal income tax reforms, which could have additional impacts on our business.. 14. Table of Contents. Reimbursement by Medicare is highly regulated and subject to change and our failure to comply with applicable regulations could decrease our revenue, subject us to penalties or adversely affect our results of operations.. The Medicare program is administered by CMS, which imposes extensive and detailed requirements on medical product and services providers, including, but not limited to, rules that govern how we structure our relationships with physicians, how and when we submit reimbursement claims, how we operate our monitoring centers and how and where we provide our arrhythmia monitoring solutions.  Our failure to comply with applicable Medicare rules could result in the discontinuation of our reimbursement under the Medicare payment program, a requirement to return funds already paid to us, civil monetary penalties, criminal penalties and/or exclusion from the Medicare program.. Changes in the reimbursement rate that commercial payors and Medicare will pay for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue.. We receive reimbursement for our products and services from commercial payors and from Medicare administrative contractors with jurisdiction in the state where the services are performed.  In addition, our prescribing physicians receive reimbursement for professional interpretation of the information provided by our products and services from commercial payors or Medicare.  Average commercial reimbursement rates have declined over a three and five year period.  When commercial payors combine their operations, the combined company may elect to reimburse for our products and services at the lowest rate paid by any of the participants in the consolidation.  If one of the payors participating in the consolidation does not reimburse for one of our products or services, the combined company may elect not to reimburse for such product or service.  Additionally, commercial payors can typically terminate these contracts by providing between 60 and 120 days' prior notice at any time following the end of the initial term of the agreement.  In addition, CMS may reduce the reimbursement rate for our services, as it has in the past.  CMS updates the reimbursement rate via the Medicare physician fee schedule annually.  Furthermore, CMS has adopted a complex new system for reimbursing Medicare physician services as required by the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015.  Under the new program, which began January 1, 2017, physicians will either report under the Merit-based Incentive Payment System or an Advanced Alternative Payment Model, and their 2017 performance will impact 2019 rates.  CMS published a final rule on November 16, 2017, modifying program requirements for performance year 2018.  The rule designates use of certain patient-generated health data with an active feedback loop as a \"high\" weighted activity for purposes of the Advancing Care Information bonus.  We cannot predict the impact of this new framework on reimbursement for our services.  A decrease in Medicare or commercial reimbursement rates or termination of commercial payor contracts would adversely affect our financial results.. The operation of our monitoring centers is subject to rules and regulations governing IDTFs and state licensure requirements; failure to comply with these rules could prevent us from receiving reimbursement from Medicare and some commercial payors.. We have several monitoring centers throughout the United States that analyze the data obtained from cardiac monitors and report the results to physicians.  In order for us to receive reimbursement from Medicare and some commercial payors, our monitoring centers must be certified as IDTFs.  Certification as an IDTF requires that we follow strict regulations governing how our monitoring centers operate, such as requirements regarding the experience and certifications of the technicians who review data transmitted from our monitors.  These rules and regulations vary from location to location and are subject to change.  If they change, we may have to change the operating procedures at our monitoring centers, which could increase our costs significantly.  If we fail to obtain and maintain IDTF certification, our services may no. 15. Table of Contents. longer be reimbursed by Medicare and some commercial payors, which could have a material adverse impact on our business.. Our failure to maintain accreditation could impact our DMEPOS operations.. Accreditation is required by most of our managed care payors and became a mandatory requirement for all Medicare durable medical equipment, prosthetics, orthotics and supplies (\"DMEPOS\") providers effective October 1, 2009.  In 2016, we acquired Telcare, a diabetes care management company.  In 2017, Telcare completed a nationwide accreditation renewal process conducted by the Healthcare Quality Association on Accreditation, which renewed our accreditation for another three years.  The Company will undergo the next survey cycle in 2020.  If we lose accreditation, our failure to maintain accreditation could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, capital resources and liquidity.. Failure to appropriately track and report certain payments to physicians and teaching hospitals may violate certain federal reporting laws and subject us to fines and penalties.. Section 6002 of the Affordable Care Act requires certain medical device manufacturers that produce devices covered by the Medicare and Medicaid programs to report annually to the government certain payments to physicians and teaching hospitals.  If we fail to appropriately track and report such payments to the government, we could be subject to civil fines and penalties, which could adversely affect the results of our operations.. Audits or denials of our claims by government agencies and private payors could reduce our revenue and have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. As part of our business operations, we submit claims on behalf of patients directly to, and receive payments from, Medicare, Medicaid and other third-party payors.  We are subject to extensive government regulation, including requirements for submitting reimbursement claims under appropriate codes and maintaining certain documentation to support our claims.  Medicare contractors and Medicaid agencies periodically conduct pre-and post-payment reviews and other audits of claims and are under increasing pressure to more closely scrutinize health care claims and supporting documentation.  We have previously been subject to pre-and post-payment reviews as well as audits of claims under CMS' Recovery Audit Program and may experience such reviews and audits of claims in the future.  Such reviews and similar audits of our claims could result in material delays in payment, as well as material recoupments or denials, which would reduce our net sales and profitability, or result in our exclusion from participation in the Medicare or Medicaid programs.  We are also subject to similar review and audits from private payors, which may result in material delays in payment and material recoupments and denials.  In addition, state agencies may conduct investigations or submit requests for information relating to claims data submitted to private payors.. We have a concentrated number of payors and losing one of them would reduce our sales and adversely affect our business and operating results.. Medicare, our largest payor, represents a significant percentage of our revenue.  For the year ended December 31, 2017, Medicare accounted for approximately 34% of our total revenue.  No other payor accounted for more than 4% of total revenue.  Our agreements with commercial payors typically allow either party to the contract to terminate the contract by providing between 60 and 120 days' prior written notice to the other party at any time following the end of the initial term of the contract.  Our commercial payors may elect to terminate or not to renew their contracts with us for any reason and, in some instances,. 16. Table of Contents. can unilaterally change the reimbursement rates they pay.  A commercial payor who terminates or does not renew their contract with us may, or may not, alter their coverage of our services.  In the event any of our key commercial payors terminate their agreements with us, elect not to renew or enter into new agreements with us upon expiration of their current agreements, or do not renew or establish new agreements on terms as favorable as are currently contracted, our business, operating results and prospects would be adversely affected.. Violation of federal and state laws regarding privacy and security of patient information may adversely affect our business, financial condition or operations.. The use and disclosure of certain health care information by health care providers and their business associates have come under increased public scrutiny.  Federal standards under HIPAA establish rules concerning how individually-identifiable health information may be used, disclosed and protected.  Historically, state law had governed confidentiality issues, and HIPAA preserves these laws to the extent they are more protective of a patient's privacy or provide the patient with more access to his or her health information.  Additionally, HITECH and associated changes to HIPAA impose additional requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information.  We must operate our business in a manner that complies with all applicable laws, both federal and state, and that does not jeopardize the ability of our customers to comply with all applicable laws.  We believe that our operations are consistent with these legal standards.  Nevertheless, these laws and regulations present risks for health care providers and their business associates that provide services to patients in multiple states.  As we continue to see how government regulators and courts interpret and enforce HIPAA's requirements, we may need to adjust our interpretations of these laws and regulations over time.  If a challenge to our activities is successful, it could have an adverse effect on our operations, may require us to forego relationships with customers in certain states and may restrict the territory available to us to expand our business.  In addition, even if our interpretations of HIPAA and other federal and state laws and regulations are correct, we could be held liable for unauthorized uses or disclosures of patient information as a result of inadequate systems and controls to protect this information or as a result of the theft of information by unauthorized computer programmers who penetrate our network security.. Violation of these laws against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  For example, in 2011, we experienced the theft of two unencrypted laptop computers and, as a result, were required to provide notices under the HIPAA Breach Notification Rule and were subsequently investigated by the United States Department of Health and Human Services' Office for Civil Rights (\"OCR\").  Although we have been in compliance with our obligations stemming from these incidents, and believe that our operations are consistent with these legal standards imposed by HIPAA, to avoid the uncertainty of administrative enforcement proceedings or protracted litigation, we elected to settle the investigation by OCR in April 2017 by paying $2.5 million and entering into a 3-year corrective action plan.  This settlement did not contain any admission of liability by the Company.. The FDA may recommend a different approach to measuring the cardiac impact and safety of drugs as part of the approval process. Such changes could make the systems and processes of our research segment obsolete and adversely affect revenue and profitability.. As part of its approval process, the FDA has provided guidance reinforcing the need for cardiac safety testing of all compounds entering the blood stream.  The requirements vary based on the type and history of each compound.  This testing is accomplished by different methods, including cardiac imaging such as MUGA and ECG analysis, which involves measuring the QT/QTc interval for prolongation.  We function as a core lab and have developed proprietary systems and processes to receive cardiac imaging. 17. Table of Contents. studies and ECGs for analysis.  It is possible that, in the future, the FDA may recommend a different approach for evaluating the cardiac impact and safety of compounds which may diminish the need for a core lab.  This would considerably reduce the value of our existing systems and processes and would substantially decrease our revenue and profitability in our Research segment.. In December 2015, the FDA published a report which called into question the need for certain QT studies.  In a series of public meetings throughout 2016 discussing the report, FDA speakers indicated that certain studies were no longer mandatory and that future regulations will include some combination of traditional study types along with early phase Exposure Response modeling.  Further guidance around the performance of QT studies from the FDA is expected.  We cannot assess the impact of this expected guidance at this time, but it may substantially decrease our revenue and profitability in our Research segment.. We are subject to numerous FDA regulations and decisions and it may be costly to comply with these regulations and decisions and to develop compliant products and processes.. The devices that we manufacture are classified as medical devices and are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA.  Further, we maintain establishment registration with the FDA as a distributor of medical devices. FDA regulations govern manufacturing, labeling, promotion, distribution, importing, exporting, shipping and sale of these devices.  Our devices and our arrhythmia detection algorithms have 510(k) Clearance status from the FDA.  Modifications to our devices or our algorithms that could significantly affect safety or effectiveness, or that could constitute a significant change in intended use, would require a new clearance from the FDA.  If in the future we make changes to our devices or our algorithms, the FDA could determine that such modifications require new FDA clearance, and we may not be able to obtain such FDA clearances timely, or at all.. We are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including quality regulations applicable to the manufacture of our devices and various reporting regulations, as well as regulations that govern the promotion and advertising of medical devices.  The FDA could find that we have failed to comply with one of these requirements, which could result in a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from a warning letter to one or more severe sanctions.  These sanctions could include fines, injunctions and civil penalties; recall or seizure of devices; operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; refusal to grant 510(k) Clearance of new components or algorithms; withdrawing 510(k) Clearance already granted to one or more of our existing components or algorithms; and criminal prosecution.  Any of these enforcement actions could be costly and significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our operations and our interactions with our physicians and patients are subject to regulation aimed at preventing health care fraud and abuse and, if we are unable to fully comply with such laws, we could face substantial penalties.. Our operations may be directly or indirectly affected by various broad state and federal health care fraud and abuse laws, including the Federal Healthcare Programs' Anti-Kickback Statute and the Federal False Claims Act.  For some of our services, we directly bill physicians or other health care entities, that, in turn, bill payors.  Although we believe such payments and practices are proper and in compliance with laws and regulations, we may be subject to claims asserting that we have violated these laws and regulations.  If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of these laws, we or our officers may be subject to civil or criminal penalties, including large monetary penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment and exclusion from Medicare and Medicaid program participation.  Furthermore, if we knowingly file, or \"cause\" the filing of, false claims for reimbursement with government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, we may be subject to substantial civil penalties, including treble damages.  The Federal False. 18. Table of Contents. Claims Act also contains \"whistleblower\" or \"qui tam\" provisions that allow private individuals to bring actions on behalf of the government alleging that the defendant has defrauded the government.  In recent years, the number of suits brought in the medical industry by private individuals has increased dramatically.  Various states have enacted laws modeled after the Federal False Claims Act, including \"qui tam\" provisions, and some of these laws apply to claims filed with commercial insurers.  Even if we are not found to have violated any of these federal or state anti-fraud or false claims acts, the costs of defending these claims could adversely affect our results of operations.. The medical device industry is the subject of numerous governmental investigations into marketing and other business practices.  These investigations could result in the commencement of civil and/or criminal proceedings, substantial fines, penalties, and/or administrative remedies, divert the attention of our management, and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. As mentioned above, we are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities.  These authorities have been increasing their scrutiny of our industry.  We occasionally receive subpoenas or other requests for information from state and federal governmental agencies, including, among others, the United States Department of Justice and the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.  These investigations typically relate primarily to financial arrangements with health care providers, regulatory compliance and product promotional practices.. We cooperate with these investigations and respond to such requests.  However, when an investigation begins, we cannot predict when it will be resolved, the outcome of the investigation or its impact on us.  An adverse outcome in one or more of these investigations could include the commencement of civil and/or criminal proceedings, substantial fines, penalties and/or administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement programs and entry into Corporate Integrity Agreements with governmental agencies.  In addition, resolution of any of these matters could involve the imposition of additional and costly compliance obligations.  Finally, if these investigations continue over a long period of time, they could divert the attention of management from the day-to-day operations of our business and impose significant administrative burdens, including cost, on us.  These potential consequences, as well as any adverse outcome from these investigations or other investigations initiated by the government at any time, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our business is subject to the risks of international operations.. Compliance with applicable United States and foreign laws and regulations, such as import and export requirements, anti-corruption laws, tax laws, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy requirements, environmental laws, labor laws and anti-competition regulations, increases the costs of doing business in foreign jurisdictions.  Although we have implemented policies and procedures to comply with these laws and regulations, a violation by our employees, contractors or agents could nevertheless occur.  In some cases, compliance with the laws and regulations of one country could violate the laws and regulations of another country.  Violations of these laws and regulations could materially adversely affect our brand, international growth efforts and business.. We also could be affected by other risks associated with international activities including, but not limited to, economic and labor conditions, increased duties, taxes (including taxes related to our international operations) and other costs and political instability.  Margins on sales of our products in foreign countries, and on sales of products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, could be materially adversely affected by international trade regulations, including duties, tariffs and antidumping penalties.  For the year ended December 31, 2017, our international operations comprised less than 1% of our total. 19. Table of Contents. revenue.  We are also exposed to credit and collectability risk on our trade receivables with customers in certain international markets.  There can be no assurance that we can effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses.. If we do not obtain and maintain adequate protection for our intellectual property, it may adversely affect the value of our technology and devices and future revenue and operating income.. Our business and competitive positions are in part dependent upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology.  To protect our proprietary rights, we rely on a combination of trademark, copyright, patent, trade secret and other intellectual property laws, employment, confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, and confidentiality agreements and protective contractual provisions with other third parties.  We attempt to protect our intellectual property position by filing trademark applications and United States and international patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development of our business.. We do not believe that any single patent, trademark or other intellectual property right of ours, or combination of our intellectual property rights, is likely to prevent others from competing with us using a similar business model.  There are many issued patents and patent applications held by others in our industry and the electronics field.  Our competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially similar or superior to our technologies, or design around our patents or other intellectual property to avoid infringement.  In addition, we may not apply for a patent relating to products or processes that are patentable, we may fail to receive any patent for which we apply or have applied, and any patent owned by us or issued to us could be circumvented, challenged, invalidated, or held to be unenforceable or rights granted thereunder may not adequately protect our technology or provide a competitive advantage to us.  If a third-party challenges the validity of any patents or proprietary rights of ours, we may become involved in intellectual property disputes and litigation that would be costly and time-consuming.  All of our patents will eventually expire.  Some of our patents, including patents protecting significant elements of our technology, will expire between 2018 and 2032, at which point we can no longer enforce these against third parties to prevent them from making, using, selling, offering to sell or importing our current clinical device.  While we have several patents expiring between 2018 and 2032, including patents that relate, in part, to our key products, our technology is typically covered by several patents, creating a system of protected technology.  The expiration of our patents could expose us to more competition and have an adverse impact on our business.. Although third parties may infringe on our patents and other intellectual property rights, we may not be aware of any such infringement, or we may be aware of potential infringement but elect not to seek to prevent such infringement or pursue any claim of infringement, and the third-party may continue its potentially infringing activities.  Any decision whether or not to take further action in response to potential infringement of our patent or other intellectual property rights may be based on a variety of factors, such as the potential costs and benefits of taking such action, and business and legal issues and circumstances.  Litigation of claims of infringement of a patent or other intellectual property rights may be costly and time-consuming, may divert the attention of key management personnel and may not be successful or result in any significant recovery of compensation for any infringement or enjoining of any infringing activity.  Litigation or licensing discussions may also involve or lead to counterclaims that could be brought by a potential infringer to challenge the validity or enforceability of our patents and other intellectual property.. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we generally require our employees, consultants, contractors and outside collaborators to enter into written non-disclosure agreements.  These agreements, however, may not provide adequate protection to prevent any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information.  These. 20. Table of Contents. agreements may be breached, and we may not become aware of, or have adequate remedies in the event of, any such breach.  Also, others may independently develop the same or substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets.. Our ability to innovate or market our products may be impaired by the intellectual property rights of third parties.. Our success is dependent, in part, upon our ability to avoid infringing the patents or proprietary rights of others.  The cardiac monitoring industry is characterized by a large number of patents and patent filings.  Competitors may have filed applications for, or have been issued, patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights related to devices, services or processes that we use to compete.  We may not be aware of all of the patents or patent applications potentially adverse to our interests that may have been filed or issued to others.. United States patent applications may be kept confidential while pending in the Patent and Trademark Office.  If other companies have or obtain patents relating to our products or services, we may be required to obtain licenses to those patents or to develop or obtain alternative technology.  We may not be able to obtain any such licenses on acceptable terms, or at all.  Any failure to obtain such licenses could impair or foreclose our ability to make, use, market or sell our products and services.. Based on the fact that we may pose a competitive threat to some companies who own or control various patents, it is possible that one or more third parties may assert a patent infringement claim seeking damages and to enjoin the manufacture, use, sale and marketing of our products and services.  If a third-party asserts that we have infringed on its patent or proprietary rights, we may become involved in intellectual property disputes and litigation that would be costly and time-consuming and could impair or foreclose our ability to make, use, market or sell our products and services.  Lawsuits may have already been filed against us without our knowledge.  Additionally, we may receive notices from other third parties suggesting or asserting that we are infringing their patents and inviting us to license such patents.  We do not believe that we are infringing on any other party's patents or that a license to any such patents is necessary.  Should litigation over such patents arise, we intend to vigorously defend against any allegation of infringement.. If we are found to infringe on the patents or intellectual property rights of others, we may be required to pay damages, stop the infringing activity or obtain licenses or rights to the patents or other intellectual property in order to use, manufacture, market or sell our products and services.  Any required license may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all.  If we succeed in obtaining such licenses, payments under such licenses would reduce any earnings from our products.  In addition, licenses may be non-exclusive and, accordingly, our competitors may have access to the same technology as that which may be licensed to us.  If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to alter the design of our product candidates to make a license unnecessary, we may be unable to manufacture, use, market or sell our products and services, which could significantly affect our ability to achieve, sustain or grow our commercial business.. If we are unable to successfully integrate acquired companies and technology, we may not realize the benefits anticipated and our future growth may be adversely affected.. We have grown through acquisitions of companies and technology, including our acquisitions of the assets of the ePatch Division of DELTA in April 2016, VirtualScopics in May 2016, Telcare in December 2016 and LifeWatch in July 2017.  Acquisitions involve risks associated with our assumption of the liabilities of an acquired company, which may be liabilities that we were or are unaware of at the time of the acquisition, potential write-offs of acquired assets and potential loss of the acquired company's key employees or customers.  Physician, patient and customer satisfaction or performance problems with an acquired business,. 21. Table of Contents. technology, service or device could also have a material adverse effect on our reputation.  Additionally, potential disputes with the seller of an acquired business or its employees, suppliers or customers could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.  If we fail to properly evaluate and execute acquisitions, our business may be disrupted and our operating results and prospects may be harmed.. Furthermore, integrating acquired companies or new technologies into our business may prove more difficult than we anticipate.  We may encounter difficulties in successfully integrating our operations, technologies, services and personnel with that of the acquired company, and our financial and management resources may be diverted from our existing operations.  Offices in multiple states create a strain on our ability to effectively manage our operations and key personnel.  If we elect to consolidate our facilities, we may lose key personnel unwilling to relocate to the consolidated facility, may have difficulty hiring appropriate personnel at the consolidated facility and may have difficulty providing continuity of service through the consolidation.. The success of our business is partially dependent on our ability to raise capital, and failure to raise the necessary capital may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and stock price.. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, together with our term loan and revolving credit facility pursuant to our Credit Agreement with SunTrust Bank and Lenders named therein, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for the foreseeable future.  However, our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including:. • the results of our operations;. • the reimbursement rates associated with our products and services;. • our ability to secure contracts with additional commercial payors providing for the reimbursement of our services;. • the costs associated with manufacturing and building our inventory of our current and future generation monitors;. • the costs of hiring additional personnel and investing in infrastructure to support future growth;. • the costs of undertaking future strategic initiatives, such as acquisitions or joint ventures;. • the emergence of competing technologies and products and other adverse market developments;. • the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights or defending against claims of infringement by others; and. • actions taken by the FDA, CMS and other regulatory authorities affecting cardiac monitoring devices and competitive products.. If we decide to raise additional capital in the future, such capital may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all.  If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, dilution to existing stockholders would result.  If we raise additional funds by incurring debt financing, the terms of the debt may involve significant cash payment obligations as well as covenants and financial ratios that may restrict our ability to operate our business.. 22. Table of Contents. We have outstanding debt, and may incur other debt in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had outstanding term loan pursuant to our Credit Agreement with SunTrust Bank and Lenders named therein of $199.4 million, net of $5.6 million of deferred financing costs.  We may borrow additional amounts in the future and use the proceeds from any future borrowing for general corporate purposes, future acquisitions or expansion of our business.. Our incurrence of this debt, and any increases in our levels of debt, may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition by, among other things:. • requiring a portion of our cash flow from operations to make payments on this debt; or. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry.. Our current credit facility imposes restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to create liens on our assets, incur additional indebtedness, make acquisitions or dispose of assets, and also requires us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios.  Our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control.  If we breach any of the covenants and do not obtain a waiver from our lender, then, subject to applicable cure periods, our outstanding indebtedness could be declared immediately due and payable.. Our business depends on our ability to attract and retain talented employees.. Our business is based on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees, including our executive team.  The market for highly-skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive.  If we are less successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we are unable to retain key employees, our ability to develop and deliver successful products and services may be adversely affected.. Our cardiac monitoring and INR testing businesses are dependent upon physicians prescribing our services and failure to obtain those prescriptions may adversely affect our revenue.. The success of our cardiac monitoring and INR testing businesses are dependent upon physicians prescribing our services.  Our success in obtaining prescriptions will be directly influenced by a number of factors, including:. • the ability of the physicians with whom we work to obtain sufficient reimbursement and be paid in a timely manner for the professional services they provide in connection with the use of our cardiac monitoring solutions;. • our ability to continue to establish ourselves as a comprehensive cardiac monitoring and INR services provider;. • our ability to educate physicians regarding the benefits of our services over alternative diagnostic monitoring solutions; and. • the clinical efficacy of our devices.. If we are unable to educate physicians regarding the benefits of our products and obtain sufficient prescriptions for our services, revenue from the provision of our cardiac monitoring and INR solutions could potentially decrease.. 23. Table of Contents. We may experience difficulty in obtaining reimbursement for our services from commercial payors that consider our technology to be experimental and investigational, which would adversely affect our revenue and operating results.. Many commercial payors refuse to enter into contracts to reimburse the fees associated with medical devices or services that such payors determine to be \"experimental and investigational.\"  Commercial payors typically label medical devices or services as \"experimental and investigational\" until such devices or services have demonstrated product superiority evidenced by a randomized clinical trial.  We completed a clinical trial in March 2007 that showed that MCT provided higher diagnostic yield than traditional loop event monitoring.  Prior to our clinical trial, MCT was labeled \"experimental and investigational\" by numerous commercial payors.  Since the trial was published in March 2007, we have obtained contracts with most of these commercial payors that previously labeled MCT as \"experimental and investigational.\"  We have not obtained contracts with certain remaining commercial payors however, and these payors have informed us that they do not believe the data from this trial justifies the removal of the experimental designation.  As a result, these commercial payors may refuse to reimburse the technical and professional fees associated with MCT.. If commercial payors decide not to reimburse our products or services or the related services provided by physicians, or the rates of such reimbursement change, or if we fail to properly administer claims, our revenue could be adversely affected.. We have a concentration of risk related to the accounts receivable from Medicare and failure to fully collect outstanding balances from this customer, or a combination of other customers, may adversely affect our results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, we have balances owed to us from one customer, Medicare, representing approximately 21% of our total gross accounts receivable.  We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts based on the collections history and aging of outstanding receivables, as well as for any specific instances we become aware of that may preclude us from reasonably assuring collection on outstanding balances.  Determining the allowance for doubtful accounts is judgmental in nature and often involves the use of significant estimates.  A determination that requires a change in our estimates could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.. If we do not have enough equipment or experience delays in manufacturing, we may be unable to fill prescriptions for cardiac and diabetic monitoring in a timely manner, physicians may elect not to prescribe our services, and our revenue and growth prospects may be adversely affected.. When a physician prescribes cardiac monitoring to a patient, our customer service department begins the patient set-up process.  While our goal is to provide each patient with the appropriate device in a timely manner, we have experienced, and may in the future experience, delays due to the availability of devices, primarily when converting to a new generation of device or in connection with the increase in prescriptions following potential acquisitions of other companies.. We may also experience shortages of devices due to manufacturing difficulties.  Multiple suppliers provide the components used in our devices, but our Minnesota and Massachusetts facilities are registered and approved by the FDA as the manufacturer of record of our devices.  Our manufacturing operations could be disrupted by fire, earthquake or other natural disaster, a labor-related disruption, failure in supply or other logistical channels, electrical outages or other reasons.  If there were a disruption to our facilities in Minnesota or Massachusetts, we would be unable to manufacture devices until we have restored and re-qualified our manufacturing capability or developed alternative manufacturing facilities.. 24. Table of Contents. Our success in obtaining future cardiac monitor prescriptions from physicians is dependent upon our ability to promptly deliver devices to our patients, and a failure in this regard would have an adverse effect on our revenue and growth prospects.. Interruptions or delays in telecommunications systems could impair the delivery of our MCT, BGM and wireless event services.. The success of our MCT, BGM and wireless event services is dependent upon our ability to transmit and process data.  Our MCT, BGM and wireless event devices rely on third-party wireless carriers to transmit data over their data networks.  We are dependent upon these third-party wireless carriers to provide data transmission services to us through our various agreements.  If we fail to maintain these relationships, or if we lose wireless carrier services, we would be forced to seek alternative providers of data transmission services, which might not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.. As we expand our commercial activities, an increased burden will be placed upon our data processing systems and the equipment upon which they rely.  Interruptions of our data networks, or the data networks of our wireless carriers for any extended length of time, loss of stored data or other computer problems could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results.  Frequent or persistent interruptions in our cardiac monitoring services could cause permanent harm to our reputation and could cause current or potential users of our remote monitoring services or prescribing physicians to believe that our systems are unreliable, leading them to switch to our competitors.  Such interruptions could result in liability claims and litigation against us for damages or injuries resulting from the disruption in service.. Our business may be impacted by political events, war, terrorism, public health issues, natural disasters and other business interruptions.. War, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage or disruption to commerce and the economy, and thus could have a material adverse effect on us, our suppliers, logistics providers and customers.  Our business operations are subject to interruption by, among others, natural disasters, whether as a result of climate change or otherwise, fire, power shortages, nuclear power plant accidents and other industrial accidents, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues and other events beyond our control.  Such events could decrease demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible for us to make and deliver products to our customers or to receive components from its suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain.  Our potential customers and monitoring centers could be impacted by natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornados and earthquakes.  In the event of a natural disaster, we could incur significant losses, require substantial recovery time and experience significant expenditures in order to resume operations.. New products and technological advances by our competitors may negatively affect our market share, commercial opportunities and results of operations.. The market for cardiac monitoring solutions is evolving rapidly and becoming increasingly competitive.  Our industry is highly fragmented and characterized by a small number of large providers and a large number of smaller regional service providers.  These third parties compete with us in marketing to payors and prescribing physicians, recruiting and retaining qualified personnel, acquiring technology and developing solutions complementary to our programs.  In addition, as companies with substantially greater resources than ours enter our market, we will face increased competition.  If our competitors are better able to develop and patent cardiac monitoring solutions than us, or develop more effective or less expensive cardiac monitoring solutions that render our solutions obsolete or non-competitive, or deploy. 25. Table of Contents. larger or more effective marketing and sales resources than ours, our business would be harmed and our commercial opportunities would be reduced or eliminated.. We operate in an intensely competitive industry, and our failure to respond quickly to technological developments and incorporate new features into our products could harm our ability to compete.. We operate in an intensely competitive industry that experiences rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards, changes in patient requirements and frequent new product introductions and improvements.  If we are unable to respond quickly and successfully to these developments, we may lose our competitive position, and our products or technologies may become uncompetitive or obsolete.  To compete successfully, we must maintain a successful research and development effort, develop new products and production processes and improve our existing products and processes at the same pace or ahead of our competitors.  Our research and development efforts are aimed at solving increasingly complex problems, as well as creating new technologies, and we do not expect that all of our projects will be successful.  If our research and development efforts are unsuccessful, our future results of operations could be materially affected.. We are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology systems to operate our business, and if we fail to properly maintain the integrity of our data or if our products do not operate as intended or we experience a cyber-attack or other breach of these systems, our business could be materially affected.. We are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology for our products and infrastructure.  We rely on information technology systems to process, transmit and store electronic information in our day-to-day operations.  The size and complexity of our information technology systems makes them vulnerable to increasingly sophisticated cyber-attacks, malicious intrusion, breakdown, destruction, loss of data privacy or other significant disruption.  Our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving systems and regulatory standards, the increasing need to protect patient and customer information and changing customer patterns.  As a result of technology initiatives, recently enacted regulations, changes in our system platforms and integration of new business acquisitions, we have been consolidating and integrating the number of systems we operate and have upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities.. In addition, third parties may attempt to hack into our products or systems and may obtain data relating to patients with our products or our proprietary information.  If we fail to maintain or protect our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could lose existing customers, have difficulty attracting new customers, have problems in determining product cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have difficulty preventing, detecting and controlling fraud, have disputes with customers, physicians and other health care professionals, have regulatory sanctions or penalties imposed, have increases in operating expenses, incur expenses or lose revenue as a result of a data privacy breach or suffer other adverse consequences.  There can be no assurance that our process of consolidating the number of systems we operate, upgrading and expanding our information systems capabilities, protecting and enhancing our systems and developing new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology will be successful or that additional systems issues will not arise in the future.  Any significant breakdown, intrusion, interruption, corruption or destruction of these systems, as well as any data breaches, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. 26. Table of Contents. Changes in the health care industry or tort reform could reduce the number of cardiac monitoring solutions ordered by physicians, which could result in a decline in the demand for our solutions, pricing pressure and decreased revenue.. Changes in the health care industry directed at controlling health care costs or perceived over-utilization of cardiac monitoring solutions could reduce the volume of services ordered by physicians.  If more health care cost controls are broadly instituted throughout the health care industry, the volume of cardiac monitoring solutions could decrease, resulting in pricing pressure and declining demand for our services, which could harm our operating results.  In addition, it has been suggested that some physicians order cardiac monitoring solutions, even when the services may have limited clinical utility, primarily to establish a record for defense in the event of a claim of medical malpractice against the physician.  Legal changes increasing the difficulty of initiating medical malpractice cases, known as tort reform, could reduce the number of our services prescribed as physicians respond to reduced risks of litigation, which could harm our operating results.. Legislation and policy changes reforming the United States health care system may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.. The Affordable Care Act makes the most sweeping and fundamental changes to the United States health care system since the creation of Medicare and Medicaid.  The Affordable Care Act includes a large number of health-related provisions expanding Medicaid eligibility, requiring most individuals to have health insurance, establishing new regulations on health plans, establishing health insurance exchanges, requiring manufacturers to report payments or other transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals and modifying certain payment systems to encourage more cost-effective care.. Several provisions of the Affordable Care Act specifically affect the medical equipment industry. In addition to changes in Medicare DMEPOS reimbursement and an expansion of the DMEPOS competitive bidding program, the Affordable Care Act provides that for sales on or after January 1, 2013, manufacturers, producers and importers of taxable medical devices must pay an annual excise tax of 2.3% of the price for which the devices are sold.  Subsequent legislation, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2016, includes a two-year moratorium on the medical device excise tax commencing on January 1, 2016 and ending on December 31, 2017.  Budget legislation signed in January 2018 extended that moratorium through December 31, 2019.. The Affordable Care Act also establishes enhanced Medicare and Medicaid program integrity provisions, including expanded documentation requirements for Medicare DMEPOS orders, more stringent procedures for screening Medicare and Medicaid DMEPOS suppliers, and new disclosure requirements regarding manufacturer payments to physicians and teaching hospitals, along with broader expansion of federal fraud and abuse authorities.  Subsequent legislation made additional changes to the DMEPOS reimbursement policy.  For instance, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2016 caps Medicaid durable medical equipment reimbursement rates at Medicare fee-for-service rates applicable in the state, including applicable competitive bidding rates, beginning January 1, 2019, and the 21st Century Cures Act moved up implementation of this provision to January 1, 2018.  There can be no assurances that future legislation will not adversely impact reimbursement for our products and services.. In addition, various health care reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. We cannot predict the full effect that these laws or any future legislation or regulation will have on us.  However, the implementation of new legislation and regulation may lower reimbursements for our products, reduce medical prescriptions for our services and adversely affect our business.. 27. Table of Contents. If we or our suppliers fail to achieve or maintain regulatory approval of manufacturing facilities, our growth could be limited and our business could be adversely affected.. We currently assemble and manufacture our cardiac monitoring and BGM devices.  We purchase INR monitoring devices from third parties. In order to maintain compliance with FDA and other regulatory requirements, our manufacturing facilities must be periodically reevaluated and qualified under a quality system to ensure they meet production and quality standards.  Suppliers of components and products used to manufacture MCT, BGM, event, and Holter devices and the manufacturers of the monitors used in INR services must also comply with FDA regulatory requirements, which often require significant resources and subject us and our suppliers to potential regulatory inspections and stoppages.  If we or our suppliers do not maintain regulatory approval for our manufacturing operations, our business could be adversely affected.. If we fail to meet Medicare accreditation and surety bond requirements or DMEPOS supplier standards, it could negatively affect our business operations.. Medicare DMEPOS suppliers (other than certain exempted professionals) must be accredited by an approved accreditation organization as meeting DMEPOS quality standards adopted by CMS.  Medicare suppliers also are required to meet surety bond requirements.  In addition, Medicare DMEPOS suppliers must comply with Medicare supplier standards in order to obtain and retain billing privileges, including meeting all applicable federal and state licensure and regulatory requirements.  Furthermore, many of our managed care contracts for the provision of diabetes services require that we qualify as an accredited DMEPOS supplier. CMS periodically expands or otherwise clarifies the Medicare DMEPOS supplier standards.  We believe we are in compliance with these requirements.  If we fail to maintain our Medicare accreditation status and/or do not comply with Medicare surety bond or supplier standard requirements in the future, or if these requirements are changed or expanded, it could adversely affect our profits and results of operations.. Our dependence on a limited number of suppliers may prevent us from delivering our devices on a timely basis.. We currently rely on a limited number of suppliers of components for the devices that we manufacture.  If these suppliers became unable to provide components in the volumes needed or at an acceptable price, we would have to identify and qualify acceptable replacements from alternative sources of supply.  The process of qualifying suppliers is lengthy.  Delays or interruptions in the supply of our required components could limit or stop our ability to provide sufficient quantities of devices on a timely basis and meet demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We could be subject to medical liability or product liability claims, which may not be covered by insurance and which would adversely affect our business and results of operations.. The design, manufacture and marketing of services of the types we provide entail an inherent risk of product liability claims.  Any such claims against us may require us to incur significant defense costs, irrespective of whether such claims have merit.  In addition, we provide information to health care providers and payors upon which determinations affecting medical care are made, and claims may be made against us resulting from adverse medical consequences to patients resulting from the information we provide.  In addition, we may become subject to liability in the event that the devices we use fail to correctly record or transfer patient information or if we provide incorrect information to patients or health care providers using our services.. 28. Table of Contents. Our liability insurance is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations. In addition, our current insurance may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, and, if available, the coverage may not be adequate to protect us against any future claims.  If we are unable to obtain insurance at an acceptable cost or on acceptable terms with adequate coverage or otherwise protect against any claims against us, we would be exposed to significant liabilities, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Regulations related to conflict minerals may adversely impact our business.. The Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains provisions to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, originating from the DRC.  Due to the materials used in certain of the products manufactured by our subsidiaries, we must comply with annual disclosure and reporting rules adopted by the SEC by assessing whether the subject minerals contained in our products originated in the DRC.  Our supply chain is complex since we do not source our minerals directly from the original mine or smelter.  Consequently, we incur costs in complying with these disclosure requirements, including for due diligence to determine the source of the subject minerals used in our products and other potential changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities.  The rules may adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products throughout the supply chain beyond our control, whether or not the subject minerals are \"conflict free.\"  Also, we may face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all subject minerals used in our products through our diligence process.. We are reliant on the outsourcing of clinical research by pharmaceutical, clinical research and biotechnology companies.. We are reliant on the ability and willingness of pharmaceutical, clinical research and biotechnology companies to continue to outsource the types of research services that we provide.  As such, we are impacted and subject to risks, uncertainties and trends that affect companies in these industries.  Any downturn in these industries or reduction in spending or outsourcing could adversely affect our business.. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price.. Future issuance in connection with acquisitions and sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time.  These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock.  As of December 31, 2017, we had 32,460,668 outstanding shares of common stock.  In addition, we had 3,574,439 stock options and 467,129 restricted stock units (\"RSUs\") outstanding to purchase shares of our common stock that will become exercisable over the next four years or vest over the next three years.  Further, we had 150,000 performance stock options that are exercisable.  If exercised, vested or earned, additional shares would become available for sale.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law might deter acquisition bids for us that our stockholders might consider favorable.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our Company more difficult without the approval of our Board of Directors.  These provisions:. • establish a classified Board of Directors so that not all members of the board are elected at one time;. 29. Table of Contents. • authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may include rights superior to the rights of the holders of common stock;. • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders;. • provide that the Board of Directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws; and. • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings.. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us.  These anti-takeover provisions and other provisions under Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change of control of our Company, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders.  These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors of their choosing and cause us to take other corporate actions such stockholders desire.. We have a history of net losses and future profitability is uncertain.. We previously incurred net losses for each annual period from our inception through December 31, 2014.  For the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, we achieved net income attributable to the Company of $53.4 million and $7.4 million, respectively; for the year ended December 31, 2017 we realized a net loss attributable to the Company of $16.0 million.  We may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis.  As of December 31, 2017, we had a total accumulated deficit of approximately $158.7 million.. We may not be able to realize our net operating loss carryforwards.. We have deferred tax assets that include net operating loss carryforwards that can be used to offset taxable income in future periods and reduce income taxes payable in those future periods.  The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences are deductible.  The timing and manner in which we can utilize our net operating loss carryforward and future income tax deductions in any year may be limited by provisions of the Internal Revenue Code (\"IRC\") regarding the change in ownership of corporations.  Such limitation may have an impact on the ultimate realization of our carryforwards and future tax deductions.  Section 382 of the IRC (\"Section 382\") imposes limitations on a corporation's ability to utilize net operating losses if it experiences an \"ownership change.\"  In general terms, an ownership change may result from transactions increasing the ownership of certain stockholders in the stock of a corporation by more than 50 percentage points over a three-year period.  Any unused annual limitation may be carried over to later years, and the amount of the limitation may under certain circumstances be increased by the built-in gains in assets held by us at the time of the change that are recognized in the five-year period after the change.  Currently, a portion of our loss carryforwards is limited under Section 382.. 30. Table of Contents. Resolution of income tax matters may impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are subject to income taxes in many U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, which requires significant judgment in determining our effective income tax rate and in evaluating tax positions, particularly those related to uncertain tax positions.  We have provided for uncertain tax positions when such tax positions do not meet the recognition thresholds or measurement standards prescribed by the accounting standard for uncertain tax positions.  Changes in uncertain tax positions or other adjustments resulting from tax audits and settlements with taxing authorities, including related interest and penalties, impact our effective tax rate.  When particular tax matters arise, a number of years could elapse before such matters are audited and finally resolved.  We believe our positions are appropriate, however, federal, state, or foreign tax authorities could disagree.  If the settlement of any unrecognized tax reserves is different than accrued, it would impact our effective rate in the year of resolution.  Any resolution of a tax matter may require the adjustment of tax assets or tax liabilities and/or the use of cash in the year of resolution."
