[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. The following are some of the potential risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. You should carefully consider these factors, as well as the other information contained in this document, when evaluating your investment in our securities. The following list of important factors is not all-inclusive.. We may not generate sufficient funds from operations to pay our indebtedness under the Second Amended Credit Agreement when due, which could require us to undertake significant steps to avoid an event of default with respect to the Second Amended Credit Agreement. Please see Note 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K, which Note 6 is incorporated herein by reference, for a description of and defined terms regarding our Credit Agreement, Amended Credit Agreement, and Second Amended Credit Agreement. We may not generate sufficient cash from operations or from the sale of our Federal Business necessary to repay our indebtedness under the Second Amended Credit Agreement upon maturity, and we may accordingly be required to undertake other significant steps to generate additional liquidity. Such steps could include entering into a transaction, selling assets or businesses, or obtaining alternative financing. Our ability to raise such financing will depend on prevailing market conditions, which we expect may be negatively impacted by a number of factors, including our recent and projected financial results, our current level of indebtedness and debt service costs, our ability to sell our Federal Business and/or doubts regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. As a result of such conditions, the terms of the capital available to us, or the proceeds of the sale of the Company or any of its businesses, if any, may not be favorable or in sufficient amount to repay all of our indebtedness under the Second Amended Credit Agreement or to provide any proceeds to the Company's stockholders in the case of a transaction, a series of related transactions or a restructuring.. A default under the Second Amended Credit Agreement would have a material, adverse effect on our business and could result in bankruptcy. Our failure to make scheduled payments or our breach of the covenants or restrictions under the Second Amended Credit Agreement could result in an event of default. A default would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and could cause us to become bankrupt or otherwise insolvent because, among other things, our lenders:. • may declare any outstanding principal and the interest accrued thereon under the Second Amended Credit Agreement to be due and payable, and we may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness;. • may foreclose against the assets securing our borrowings; and. • will be under no obligation to extend further credit to us.. Our independent registered public accounting firm included an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern on our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, which may have a material adverse effect on our business operations and affect our ability to generate liquidity. As of June 29, 2018, the Company had approximately $24.0 million of cash and $155.7 million of borrowings outstanding under the Second Amended Credit Agreement. Although we are taking actions to prevent any future default of the covenants in our Second Amended Credit Agreement, including entering into a transaction, selling assets or businesses or obtaining alternative financing, we currently do not have definitive plans that ensure that we will remain in compliance with the covenants under the Second Amended Credit Agreement beyond December 2018. As a result, our independent registered public accounting firm therefore has included an explanatory paragraph regarding our ability to continue as a going concern in its report on our consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2018.. Our financial statements have been prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern, which contemplates that we will realize our assets and satisfy our liabilities and commitments in the ordinary course of business. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on raising additional capital to repay our indebtedness when due and to fund our operations and ultimately on generating future profitable operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise sufficient additional capital, refinance our indebtedness or generate sufficient positive cash flow from operations to address all of our cash flow needs. If we are not able to find alternative sources of cash, consummate the sale of our Federal Business at all or on terms that are attractive to us, or generate positive cash flow from operations, our business may be materially and adversely affected and our stockholders may lose their entire investment.. These uncertainties may have a material adverse effect on our business and operations.. The Company may not generate sufficient cash in the next twelve months necessary to fund continued operations. Our ability to make cash payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund future operations will depend on our ability to generate significant operating cash flow in the future and from the proceeds of certain sale transactions, including the sale of our Federal Business. This ability is, to a significant extent, subject to general economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations in amounts sufficient to enable. 5. Table of Contents. us to fund our liquidity needs. As a result, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, on or before its maturity, obtain additional equity or debt financing, sell existing assets or enter into strategic alliances with other parties. We cannot assure you that we will be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or on terms that would be advantageous to our stockholders. Any inability to generate sufficient cash flow, complete sale transactions, refinance our indebtedness, or incur additional indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms could adversely affect our financial condition and could cause us to be unable to service our existing debt. If we are unable to obtain a waiver, we would be in default under our existing indebtedness, the holders of such indebtedness could exercise their rights as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.. The unwillingness of our vendors and subcontractors to do business with us or to provide adequate payment terms could negatively impact our liquidity and/or impact our ability to secure new projects, primarily in our Commercial Services business.  We depend on our vendors and our subcontractors to provide materials and services on standard payment terms.  If our vendors or subcontractors seek to further limit the availability of credit to us or modify terms under which they sell to us, or both, it could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and/or prevent us from procuring new projects.  If subcontractors are unwilling to work for us, it could have an adverse impact on our ability to perform services for our clients.  To date, our service to our clients has not been adversely impacted to any material extent.  In addition, certain of our projects require performance bonds and there can be no assurance that we will be able to secure such bonds.  There can be no assurance that these matters will not have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, results of operations, financial condition or our business.. Changes in the information technology industry may result in reduced demand for our solutions.  The information technology industry is characterized by rapid technological change and the frequent introduction of new products and solutions and new distribution methods or channels, each of which can decrease demand for current solutions or render them obsolete. In addition, the manner in which clients consume technology is shifting from a capital model to an operating expense model.  Changes in the information technology industry and clients desired manner of procuring those solutions may negatively impact the demand for our solutions, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We face intense competition. We operate in a highly competitive industry. Our competitors, which include our technology suppliers, certain clients and certain subcontractors, may be able to deliver products and services at better prices or more quickly due to factors beyond our control. New competitors may also emerge in the future, which may threaten our ability to sustain or grow our market share. We cannot guarantee that we can continue to compete effectively in the future and still be able to sustain our current levels of profit margin.. Our investments in new solutions may not be successful. We have recently begun and expect to continue to invest in new solutions including managed services, Internet of Things and others. The complexity of developing, marketing, selling and supporting these solutions and competition in the markets for these solutions could make it difficult for us to successfully offer them. Additionally, there is a risk that our clients may not adopt these solutions widely, which would prevent us from realizing expected returns on these investments. If we are unable to market, sell and/or deploy these solutions successfully or profitably, it could adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our revenue is dependent upon repeat client business and generally is not subject to long-term contracts. A majority of our revenue is generated through individual sales of products and services and less than twenty (20%) of our revenue is generated from long-term maintenance contracts. We depend on repeat client business as well as our ability to develop new client business to sustain and grow our revenue. Although our focus on delivering high-quality sales and service has proven to be successful in the past, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to grow or even sustain our current level of revenue in the future.. We are implementing a new enterprise resource planning (\"ERP\") system for our Services' business which could result in significant disruptions to our business. In support of our strategic initiatives to optimize our business, during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2017, we began the design and implementation of a new enterprise resource planning (ERP) system for our Services business. This new system replaces multiple accounting and financial reporting systems. Implementation of the new ERP solution will have a significant impact on Services' business processes, information systems and internal controls. The implementation will require a significant financial investment, meaningful allocation of personnel resources and the coordination of numerous software and system providers, our consultants and our internal teams.. Any failure in the implementation of this new ERP system could adversely affect our ability to timely and accurately report financial information, including the filing of our quarterly or annual reports with the SEC. Such failure could also impact our ability to timely or accurately make payments to our vendors and employees and could also inhibit our ability to invoice and collect from our clients. Data integrity problems or other issues may be discovered which, if not corrected, could impact our business or financial results. In addition, we may experience periodic or prolonged disruption of our financial functions arising out of this implementation. If we encounter unforeseen problems with our financial system or related systems, our business, operations and financial systems. 6. Table of Contents. (including our internal controls) could be adversely affected. In addition, any delay in completing the implementation would result in a delay in realizing the benefits of the new system and result in increased costs. There can be no assurance that the implementation of our new ERP will be successful, or that such implementation or transition will not present unforeseen costs or demands on our management.. As a result of the Company's current liquidity concerns and as part of our review of strategic alternatives, we have temporarily halted the implementation of this ERP system.. Our business operations could be disrupted if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately. The efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology systems. We rely on our information technology systems to effectively manage our business data, communications, order entry and fulfillment and other business processes. The failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies and the loss of sales and customers, causing our business and results of operations to suffer. In addition, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including fire, natural disasters, power outages, systems failures, security breaches and viruses. Any such damage or interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Disruption or breaches of security to our information technology systems and the misappropriation of our clients' data could adversely impact our business. Our information technology systems are vulnerable to disruption by forces outside our control. We have taken steps to protect our information technology systems from a variety of internal and external threats, including computer viruses, malware, phishing, social engineering, unauthorized access and other malicious attacks, but there can be no guarantee that these steps will be effective. Any disruption to or infiltration of our information technology systems could adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, in order to ensure customer confidence in our solutions and services, we may choose to remediate actual or perceived security concerns by implementing further security measures which could require us to expend significant resources. Further, our business may involve the storage and transmission of proprietary, sensitive or confidential information. We have privacy and data security policies in place that are designed to prevent security breaches and confidentiality and data security provisions are standard in our client contracts. However, as newer technologies evolve, our security practices and products may be sabotaged or circumvented by third parties, such as hackers, which could result in disruptions to our clients' businesses, unauthorized procurement and the disclosure of sensitive corporate information or private personal information. Such breaches in security could damage our reputation and our business; they could also expose us to legal claims, proceedings and liability and to regulatory penalties under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We rely on third-party companies to perform certain of our obligations to clients, which could impact our business if not performed. We design, install, monitor and maintain systems and network solutions for our clients. We provide certain of those services to our clients through third-party providers who are engaged to perform these services on our behalf. If our third-party services providers fail to provide high-quality services to our clients, or if such services result in a disruption of our clients' businesses, we could be subject to legal claims, proceedings and liability.. We are dependent upon certain key supply chain and distribution agreements. We have significant arrangements with a small number of technology suppliers. If we experience disruptions in our supply chain with these manufacturers for any reason or lose our distribution rights, we may not be able to fulfill client commitments with an acceptable alternative or we may not be able to obtain alternative solutions at similar costs.. Our engagements with our clients are based on estimated pricing terms. If our pricing estimates are incorrect, these engagements could become unprofitable. Most of our client contracts are fixed-price to which we commit before we provide products and/or services to these clients. In pricing such fixed-price client contracts, we are required to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts that could differ from actual results. As a result, the profit that is anticipated at a contract's inception may not be guaranteed. Our estimates reflect our best judgments about the nature of the engagement and our expected costs in providing the contracted services. However, any increased or unexpected costs, or any unanticipated delays in connection with our performance of these engagements-including delays caused by our third-party providers or by factors outside our control-could make these contracts less profitable or unprofitable and could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. A significant part of our business involves public sector clients which provides unique risks. Approximately 20% of our revenues is derived from sales to agencies and departments of federal, state and local governments. Legislatures typically appropriate funds for a given program annually. These appropriations may be influenced by, among other things, the state of the economy, competing priorities for appropriation, changes in administration or control of legislatures, the timing and amount of tax receipts and the. 7. Table of Contents. overall level of government expenditures. A decrease in appropriations for certain programs could have a material adverse effect on our business.. In addition, our revenues from sales to these public sector clients are made through various direct contracts, through reseller agreements with government contractors and through open market sales. Government contracting is a highly-regulated area. Failure to comply with regulations or contracts could subject us to fines, penalties, suspension or debarment from doing business with such clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our future results will depend on our ability to manage costs effectively. We are continually implementing productivity measures and focusing on improving cost efficiency. We may be unable to realize all expected cost savings in connection with these efforts, and we may incur additional and/or unexpected costs to realize them. Further, we may not be able to sustain any achieved savings in the future. Future results will depend on the success of these efforts.. We are dependent upon the retention of our key personnel. The success of our business depends on our ability to attract and retain quality employees, executives and directors. We offer comprehensive salary and benefit packages including long-term incentives as a means of attracting and retaining personnel. We face pressure to maintain our profit margins and remain competitive in our industry while we compete for personnel in our local markets with a variety of different businesses that may be able to offer more attractive incentives due to their individual financial situations. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to attract and retain personnel with our current incentives and at costs that are consistent with our desired profit margins.. We are dependent upon future mergers and acquisitions, including successful integration, for a portion of our future growth. A key component of our long-term growth strategy is through strategic mergers and acquisitions and our future financial results are dependent upon the successful acquisition and integration of those acquisitions. We may not be successful in our search for potential acquisition candidates that are acceptable for our business model, or we may not be successful in our attempts to acquire new businesses that we have identified as attractive acquisition candidates. We cannot guarantee that we will meet our projected growth targets in the future if we are unsuccessful in our efforts to acquire additional businesses.. Our financial results are dependent on our economic environments. We, our clients or our vendors may experience economic hardships due to inflation or recession, weak economic conditions, uncertainty in global economic conditions, changes in laws and regulations, business disruptions due to natural disasters, acts of terrorism or war or other factors that are beyond our control. These conditions could cause our clients to postpone or reduce spending on technology products and solutions and that could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition or our ability to meet our future financial goals.. We may not get an adequate return on investment and may be unable to maintain cost savings from our reset initiatives. Company management has undertaken measures to reset the business model and align costs with revenue to improve profitability. The Company believes there is a significant cost savings from such restructuring initiatives and that they will provide a return on investment in a relatively short period of time. However, there can be no assurance that we would realize adequate returns on this investment nor that we would be able to maintain such cost savings in the future.. If we infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, we may be subject to costly disputes or indemnification obligations that could adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. We cannot assure you that our activities will not infringe on patents, trademarks or other intellectual property rights owned by others. If we are required to defend ourselves against intellectual property rights claims, we may spend significant time and effort and incur significant litigation costs, regardless of whether such claims have merit. If we are found to have infringed on the patents, trademarks or other intellectual property rights of others, we may also be subject to substantial claims for damages or a requirement to cease the use of such disputed intellectual property, which could have an adverse effect on our operations. Such litigation or claims and the consequences that could follow could distract our management from the ordinary operation of our business and could increase our costs of doing business, resulting in a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Furthermore, third parties may assert infringement claims against our clients for infringement by our products on the intellectual property rights of such third parties. These claims may require us to initiate or defend protracted and costly litigation on behalf of our clients, regardless of the merits of these claims. We also generally extend the indemnification granted by our OEMs to our clients for any such infringement. If any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages on behalf of our clients or may be required to obtain licenses for the products they use, even though our OEMs may in turn be liable for any such damages. Any infringement on the intellectual property rights of third parties could adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 8. Table of Contents. We are subject to the risks of international operations. We operate in countries outside of the United States. Our operations or our financial condition may be negatively affected by events surrounding our international operations such as changes in laws and regulations, political or economic instability, currency fluctuations, supply chain disruptions, acts of terrorism, natural disasters or other political, economic or environmental factors. We cannot rely on the past results of our international operations as an indicator of future results or assure you that we will not be adversely affected by those factors inherent with international operations.. Our stock price fluctuates. Our stock price is affected by a number of factors, including quarterly variations in our financial results. As a result, our stock price is subject to volatility.. We are exposed to risks from legal proceedings and audits. We are party to various legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business, which include commercial, employment, tort and other litigation. We are also subject to intellectual property infringement claims in the ordinary course of our business, which come in the form of cease-and-desist letters, licensing inquiries, lawsuits and other demands. These claims may arise either from the products and services we sell or the business systems and products we use to sell the products and services. In our industry, such claims have become more frequent with the increasing complexity of technological products. In fact, many of these assertions are brought by Non-Practicing entities, whose principal business model is to secure patent licensing revenue. Because of our significant sales to public sector clients, we are also subject to audits by federal, state and local authorities. From time to time, we receive subpoenas and other requests for information from various government authorities. We may also be subject to audits by various vendor partners and large clients, including government agencies, pursuant to certain purchase and sale agreements. Further, we may be required to indemnify our vendor partners and our clients from claims brought by third parties under certain agreements.  Current and future litigation, infringement claims, governmental proceedings, audits or indemnification claims may result in substantial costs and expenses and regardless of the outcome, significantly divert the attention of our management, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Changes in accounting rules could adversely affect our future financial results. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with GAAP. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and various other bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. Products and services and the manner in which they are bundled (including the payment terms for such bundled products and services) are technologically complex and the characterization of these products and services require judgment to apply revenue recognition policies. Any mischaracterization of these products and services could result in misapplication of revenue recognition policies. Future periodic assessments required by current or new accounting standards may result in noncash changes and/or changes in presentation or disclosure. In addition, any change in accounting standards may influence our clients' decision to purchase from us or to finance transactions with us, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Increased costs of labor and employee health and welfare benefits may adversely impact our results of operations. Given our large number of team members, labor-related costs represent a significant portion of our expenses. An increase in labor costs (for example, as a result of increased competition for skilled labor) or employee benefit costs (such as health care costs or otherwise) could adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations."
