[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk.  You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before making a decision to invest in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face.  Additional risk and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occurs, our business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows, and prospects could be materially and adversely affected.  In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. If we are unable to attract new customers and expand sales to existing customers, our business growth could be slower than we expect and our business may be harmed.. Our future growth depends in part upon increasing our customer base. Our ability to achieve significant growth in revenues in the future will depend, in large part, upon the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts, both domestically and internationally. We may have difficulty attracting a potential client that has already invested substantial personnel and financial resources to integrate on-premise software into its business, as such organizations may be reluctant or unwilling to invest in a new product. If we fail to attract new customers or maintain and expand those customer relationships, our revenues will grow more slowly than expected and our business will be harmed.. Our future growth also depends upon our ability to add users and sell additional products to our existing customers. It is important for the future growth of our business that our existing customers make additional significant purchases of our products and add additional users to our platform. Our business also depends on retaining existing customers. If we do not retain customers, our customers do not purchase additional products or we do not add additional users to our platform, our revenues may grow more slowly than expected, may not grow at all or may decline. Additionally, increasing incremental sales to our current customer base may require additional sales efforts that are targeted at senior. 15. management. There can be no assurance that our efforts would result in increased sales to existing customers or additional revenues.. Our business and growth depend substantially on customers renewing their subscription agreements with us and any decline in our customer renewals could adversely affect our future operating results.. Our initial subscription period for the majority of our customers is one to three years. In order for us to continue to increase our revenue, it is important that our existing customers renew their subscription agreements when the initial contract term expires. Although our agreements typically include automatic renewal language, our customers may cancel their agreements at the expiration of the initial term. In addition, our customers may renew for fewer users, renew for shorter contract lengths or renew for fewer products or solutions. Our customers' renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, including their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our software or professional services, our pricing or pricing structure, the pricing or capabilities of products or services offered by our competitors, the effects of economic conditions or reductions in our customers' spending levels. As the markets for our existing solutions mature, or as current and future competitors introduce new products or services that compete with ours, we may experience pricing pressure and be unable to renew our agreements with existing customers or attract new customers at prices that are profitable to us. If this were to occur, it is possible that we would have to change our pricing model, offer price incentives or reduce our prices. If our customers do not renew their agreements with us or renew on terms less favorable to us, our revenues may decline.. We have a history of losses and we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to achieve or sustain profitability.. We have incurred net losses in recent periods, including $38.1 million, $39.2 million, and $24.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. We had an accumulated deficit of $125.5 million at December 31, 2017. We may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to achieve and sustain profitability. We also expect our costs to increase in future periods as we continue to expend substantial financial and other resources on:. •  development of our cloud-based platform, including investments in research and development, product innovation to expand the features and functionality of our software solutions and improvements to the scalability and security of our platform;. •  sales and marketing, including expansion of our direct sales force and our relationships with technology vendors, professional services firms, business process outsourcers and resellers;. •  additional international expansion in an effort to increase our customer base and sales; and. •  general administration, including legal, accounting and other expenses related to being a public company.. These investments may not result in increased revenue or growth of our business or any growth in revenue and may not be sufficient to offset the expense and may harm our profitability. If we fail to continue to grow our revenue, we may not achieve or sustain profitability.. We have experienced rapid growth and organizational change in recent periods and if we fail to manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan.. We increased our number of full-time employees from 183 at December 31, 2013 to 740 at December 31, 2017 as we have experienced growth in number of customers and expanded our operations. Our growth has placed, and may continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial, administrative, operational, financial and other resources. We intend to further expand our headcount and operations both domestically and internationally, with no assurance that our business or revenue will continue to grow. Continuing to create a global organization and managing a geographically dispersed workforce will require substantial management effort, the allocation of valuable management resources and significant additional investment in our infrastructure. We will be required to continually improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting procedures and we may not be able to do so effectively, which could negatively affect our results of operations and overall business. In addition, we may be unable to manage our expenses effectively in the future, which may negatively impact our gross margins or operating expenses in any particular quarter. Moreover, if we fail to manage our anticipated growth and change in a manner that preserves the key aspects of our corporate culture, the quality of our software solutions may suffer, which could negatively affect our brand and reputation and harm our ability to retain and attract customers.. 16. Our quarterly results may fluctuate, and if we fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, our stock price and the value of your investment could decline substantially.. Our quarterly financial results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our quarterly financial results fall below the expectations of investors or any securities analysts who may follow our stock, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Some of the important factors that may cause our revenue, operating results and cash flows to fluctuate from quarter to quarter include:. •  our ability to attract new customers and retain and increase sales to existing customers;. •  the number of new employees added;. •  the rate of expansion and productivity of our sales force;. •  long sales cycles and the timing of large contracts;. •  changes in our or our competitors' pricing policies;. •  the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the operations and expansion of our business;. •  new products, features or functionalities introduced by us and our competitors;. •  significant security breaches, technical difficulties or interruptions to our platform;. •  the timing of customer payments and payment defaults by customers;. •  general economic conditions that may adversely affect either our customers' ability or willingness to purchase additional products or services, delay a prospective customer's purchasing decision or affect customer retention;. •  changes in foreign currency exchange rates;. •  the impact of new accounting pronouncements;. •  the impact and timing of taxes or changes in tax law;. •  the timing and the amount of grants or vesting of equity awards to employees;. •  seasonality of our business; and. •  changes in customer buying patterns.. Many of these factors are outside of our control, and the occurrence of one or more of them might cause our revenue, operating results, and cash flows to vary widely. As such, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue, operating results and cash flows may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance.. If we are not able to provide successful enhancements, new features or modifications to our software solutions, our business could be adversely affected.. If we are unable to provide enhancements and new features for our existing solutions or new solutions that achieve market acceptance or that keep pace with rapid technological developments, our business could be adversely affected. The success of enhancements, new products and solutions depends on several factors, including timely completion, introduction and market acceptance. We must continue to meet changing expectations and requirements of our customers and, because our platform is designed to operate on a variety of systems, we will need to continuously modify and enhance our solutions to keep pace with changes in internet-related hardware and other software, communication, browser and database technologies. Our platform is also designed to integrate with existing enterprise resource planning (\"ERP\") systems such as NetSuite, Oracle, SAP and Workday, and will require modifications and enhancements as these systems change over time. Any failure of our solutions to operate effectively with future platforms and technologies could reduce the demand for our solutions or result in customer dissatisfaction. Furthermore, uncertainties about the timing and nature of new solutions or technologies, or modifications to existing solutions or technologies, could increase our research and development expenses. If we are not successful in developing modifications and enhancements to our solutions or if we fail to bring them to market in a timely fashion, our solutions may become less marketable, less competitive or obsolete, our revenue growth may be significantly impaired and our business could be adversely affected.. 17. We derive substantially all of our revenues from a limited number of software solutions, and our future growth is dependent on their success.. We currently derive and expect to continue to derive substantially all of our revenues from our Close Process Management solution. As such, the continued growth in market demand for this solution is critical to our continued success. We have recently introduced two new software solutions, Intercompany Hub and Smart Close, and one new software product, Insights, but cannot be certain that they will generate significant revenues. Accordingly, our business and financial results will be substantially dependent on a limited number of solutions.. If our relationships with technology vendors and business process outsourcers are not successful, our business and growth will be harmed.. We depend on, and anticipate that we will continue to depend on, various strategic relationships in order to sustain and grow our business. We have established strong relationships with technology vendors such as SAP and NetSuite to market our solutions to users of their ERP solutions, and professional services firms such as Deloitte, Ernst & Young, and KPMG, and business process outsourcers such as Cognizant, Genpact and IBM to supplement delivery and implementation of our applications. We believe these relationships enable us to effectively market our solutions by offering a complementary suite of services. In particular, we have a strategic relationship with SAP to market our solution to users of SAP's ERP solutions. Our solution is an SAP-endorsed business solution that integrates with SAP's ERP solutions. Under our agreement with SAP, which we entered into in 2013, we pay SAP a fee based on a percentage of revenues from our new customers that use an SAP ERP system. We continue to pay SAP a fee for these customers over the term of their subscription agreements. Revenues from our customers that use an SAP ERP solution accounted for $33.3 million, or 19%, of our total revenues, $20.7 million, or 17%, of our total revenues, and $9.4 million, or 11%, of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. If we are unsuccessful in maintaining our relationship with SAP, or if we are unsuccessful in supporting or expanding our relationships with other companies, our business would be adversely affected.. Identifying, negotiating and documenting relationships with other companies require significant time and resources. Our agreements with technology vendors are typically limited in duration, non-exclusive, cancellable upon notice and do not prohibit the counterparties from working with our competitors or from offering competing services. For example, our agreement with SAP can be terminated by either party upon six months' notice and there is no assurance that our relationship with SAP will continue. If we are no longer an SAP-endorsed business solution, our business could be adversely affected. Our competitors may be effective in providing incentives to third parties to favor their products or services or to prevent or reduce subscriptions to our platform. If we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining our relationships, our ability to compete in the marketplace or to grow our revenue could be impaired and our operating results would suffer. Even if we are successful, we cannot assure you that these relationships will result in improved operating results.. If our security controls are breached or unauthorized, or inadvertent access to customer, employee or other confidential data is otherwise obtained, our software solutions may be perceived as insecure, we may lose existing customers or fail to attract new customers, our business may be harmed and we may incur significant liabilities.. Use of our platform involves the storage, transmission and processing of our customers' proprietary data, including highly confidential financial information regarding their business and personal or identifying information regarding their customers or employees. Our platform is at risk for breaches as a result of third-party action, employee, vendor or contractor error, malfeasance or other factors. If any unauthorized or inadvertent access to or a security breach of our platform occurs, or is believed to occur, such an event could result in the loss of data, loss of business, severe reputational damage adversely affecting customer or investor confidence, regulatory investigations and orders, litigation, indemnity obligations, damages for contract breach or penalties for violation of applicable laws or regulations. We may also suffer breaches of our internal systems. Security breaches of our platform or our internal systems could also result in significant costs for remediation that may include liability for stolen assets or information and repair of system damage that may have been caused, incentives offered to customers or other business partners in an effort to maintain business relationships after a breach, and other liabilities.. Additionally, many jurisdictions have enacted laws requiring companies to notify individuals of data security breaches involving certain types of personal data. These mandatory disclosures regarding a security breach could result in negative publicity to us, which may cause our customers to lose confidence in the effectiveness of our data security measures which could impact our operating results.. 18. We incur significant expenses to prevent security breaches, including deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, training employees, and engaging third-party experts and contractors. If a high profile security breach occurs with respect to another Software as a Service (\"SaaS\") provider, our clients and potential clients may lose trust in the security of our platform or in the SaaS business model generally, which could adversely impact our ability to retain existing clients or attract new ones. Even in the absence of any security breach, customer concerns about security, privacy, or data protection may deter them from using our platform for activities that involve personal or other sensitive information. Our errors and omissions insurance policies covering certain security and privacy damages and claim expenses may not be sufficient to compensate for all potential liability. Although we maintain cyber liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all.. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. We may also experience security breaches that may remain undetected for an extended period.  From time to time, we experience cyber security events including directed \"phishing\" attacks against our employees, web attacks and other information technology incidents that are typical for a SaaS company of our size. These threats continue to evolve and are difficult to predict due to advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography and new and sophisticated methods used by criminals including phishing, social engineering or other illicit acts. There can be no assurances that our defensive measures will prevent cyber-attacks and any incidents could damage our brand and reputation and negatively impact our business.. Because data security is a critical competitive factor in our industry, we make numerous statements in our privacy policy and customer agreements, through our certifications to privacy standards and in our marketing materials, providing assurances about the security of our platform including detailed descriptions of security measures we employ. Should any of these statements be untrue or become untrue, even through circumstances beyond our reasonable control, we may face claims of misrepresentation or deceptiveness by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, state and foreign regulators and private litigants. Our errors and omissions insurance coverage covering security and privacy damages and claim expenses may not be sufficient to compensate for all liabilities.. Interruptions or performance problems associated with our software solutions, platform and technology may adversely affect our business and operating results.. Our continued growth depends in part on the ability of our existing and potential customers to access our platform at any time. Our platform is proprietary, and we rely on the expertise of members of our engineering, operations and software development teams for its continued performance. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, disruptions, outages and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, introductions of new functionality, human or software errors, capacity constraints due to an overwhelming number of users accessing our platform simultaneously, denial of service attacks or other security related incidents. In some instances, we may not be able to identify the cause or causes of these performance problems within an acceptable period of time. Because of the seasonal nature of financial close activities, increasing complexity of our platform and expanding user population, it may become difficult to accurately predict and timely address performance and capacity needs during peak load times. If our platform is unavailable or if our users are unable to access it within a reasonable amount of time or at all, our business would be harmed. In addition, our infrastructure does not currently include the real-time mirroring of data. Therefore, in the event of any of the factors described above, or other failures of our infrastructure, customer data may be permanently lost. Our customer agreements typically include performance guarantees and service level standards that obligate us to provide credits in the event of a significant disruption in our platform. To the extent that we do not effectively address capacity constraints, upgrade our systems and continually develop our technology and network architecture to accommodate actual and anticipated changes in technology, our business and operating results may be adversely affected.. If our software contains serious errors or defects, we may lose revenue and market acceptance and may incur costs to defend or settle product liability claims.. Complex software such as ours often contains errors or defects, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Despite internal and third-party testing and testing by our customers, our current and future software may contain serious defects, which could result in lost revenue or a delay in market acceptance.. Since our customers use our platform for critical business functions such as assisting in the financial close or account reconciliation process, errors, defects or other performance problems could result in damage to our customers.. 19. They could seek significant compensation from us for the losses they suffer. Although our customer agreements typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to product liability claims, existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions could negate these limitations. Even if not successful, a product liability claim brought against us would likely be time-consuming and costly and could seriously damage our reputation in the marketplace, making it harder for us to sell our products.. We depend on our executive officers and other key employees and the loss of one or more of these employees or an inability to attract and retain highly-skilled employees could adversely affect our business.. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key employees. We rely on our leadership team in the areas of research and development, operations, security, marketing, sales and general and administrative functions. In particular, our founder and Chief Executive Officer provides our strategic direction and has built and maintained what we believe is an attractive workplace culture. Any failure to preserve our culture could negatively affect our ability to recruit and retain personnel. From time to time, there may be changes in our executive management team resulting from the hiring or departure of executives, which could disrupt our business. Key members of our current management and finance teams have only been working together for a relatively short period of time. If we are not successful in integrating these key employees into our organization, such failure could disrupt our business operations. We do not have employment agreements with our executive officers or other key personnel that require them to continue to work for us for any specified period and, therefore, they could terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, especially our founder and Chief Executive Officer, could have an adverse effect on our business.. In addition, to execute our growth plan, we must attract and retain highly-qualified personnel. Competition for personnel is intense, especially for engineers experienced in designing and developing software applications and experienced sales professionals. We have, from time to time experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining employees with appropriate qualifications. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have. If we hire employees from competitors or other companies, their former employers may attempt to assert that these employees or we have breached their legal obligations, resulting in a diversion of our time and resources. Likewise, if competitors hire our employees, we may divert time and resources to deterring any breach by our former employees or their new employers of their legal obligations. Given the competitive nature of our industry, we have both received and asserted such claims in the past. In addition, job candidates and existing employees often consider the value of the equity awards they receive in connection with their employment. If the perceived value of our equity awards declines, it may adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain highly-skilled employees. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be adversely affected.. If our industry does not continue to develop as we anticipate or if potential customers do not continue to adopt our platform, our sales would not grow as quickly as expected, or at all, and our business and operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected.. We operate in a rapidly evolving industry focused on modernizing financial and accounting operations. Our solutions are relatively new and have been developed to respond to an increasingly global and complex business environment with more rigorous regulatory standards. If organizations do not increasingly allocate their budgets to financial automation software as we expect or if we do not succeed in convincing potential customers that our platform should be an integral part of their overall approach to their accounting processes, our sales may not grow as quickly as anticipated, or at all. Our business is substantially dependent on enterprises recognizing that accounting errors and inefficiencies are pervasive and are not effectively addressed by legacy solutions. Future deterioration in general economic conditions may also cause our customers to cut their overall information technology spending, and such cuts may disproportionately affect software solutions like ours to the extent customers view our solutions as discretionary. If our revenue does not increase for any of these reasons, or any other reason, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected.. The market in which we participate is intensely competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our operating results could be harmed.. The market for accounting and financial software and services is highly competitive and rapidly evolving. Our competitors vary in size and in the breadth and scope of the products and services they offer. We often compete with other vendors of financial automation software such as Trintech. We also compete with large, well-established, enterprise application software vendors, such as Oracle, whose Hyperion software contains components that compete with our platform. In the future, a competitor offering ERP software could include a free service similar to ours as part of its standard. 20. offerings or may offer a free standalone version of a service similar to ours. Further, other established software vendors not currently focused on accounting and finance software and services may expand their services to compete with us.. Our competitors may have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, more established customer and marketing relationships, larger marketing budgets and significantly greater resources than we do. They may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, or customer requirements. In addition, some of our competitors have partnered with, or have acquired, and may in the future partner with or acquire, other competitors to offer services, leveraging their collective competitive positions, which makes, or would make, it more difficult to compete with them.. With the introduction of new technologies, the evolution of our platform and new market entrants, we expect competition to intensify in the future. Increased competition generally could result in reduced sales, reduced margins, losses or the failure of our platform to achieve or maintain more widespread market acceptance, any of which could harm our business.. Our financial results may fluctuate due to our long and increasingly variable sales cycle.. Our sales cycle generally varies in duration between four to nine months and, in some cases, even longer depending on the size of the potential customer, the size of the potential contract and the type of solution or product being purchased. The sales cycle for our global enterprise customers is generally longer than that of our mid-market customers. In addition, the length of the sales cycle tends to increase for larger contracts and for more complex, strategic products like Intercompany Hub.  As we continue to focus on increasing our average contract size and selling more strategic products, we expect our sales cycle to lengthen and become less predictable.  This could cause variability in our operating results for any particular period.. A number of other factors that may influence the length and variability of our sales cycle include:. •  the need to educate potential customers about the uses and benefits of our software solutions;. •  the need to educate potential customers on the differences between traditional, on-premise software and SaaS solutions;. •  the relatively long duration of the commitment customers make in their agreements with us;. •  the discretionary nature and timing of potential customers' purchasing and budget cycles and decisions;. •  the competitive nature of potential customers' evaluation and purchasing processes;. •  announcements or planned introductions of new products by us or our competitors; and. •  lengthy purchasing approval processes of potential customers.. We may incur higher costs and longer sales cycles as a result of large enterprises representing an increased portion of our revenue. In this market, the decision to subscribe to our solutions may require the approval of more technical and information security personnel and management levels within a potential customer's organization, and if so, these types of sales require us to invest more time educating these potential customers. In addition, larger organizations may demand more features and integration services and have increased purchasing power and leverage in negotiating contractual arrangements with us, which may contain restrictive terms favorable to the larger organization. As a result of these factors, these sales opportunities may require us to devote greater research and development, sales, product support and professional services resources to individual customers, resulting in increased costs and reduced profitability, and would likely lengthen our typical sales cycle, which could strain our resources.. 21. In addition, more sales are closed in the last month of a quarter than other times. If we are unable to close sufficient transactions in a particular period, or if a significant amount of transactions are delayed until a subsequent period, our operating results for that period, and for any future periods in which revenue from such transaction would otherwise have been recognized, may be adversely affected.. Failure to effectively organize or expand our sales capabilities could harm our ability to increase our customer base.. Increasing our customer base and sales will depend, to a significant extent, on our ability to effectively organize and expand our sales and marketing operations and activities. From January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2017, our sales and marketing teams increased from 68 to 372 employees. As we've grown and scaled our operations, we have aligned our sales team to help streamline the customer experience.  We rely on our direct sales force to obtain new customers and on our enterprise field sales team and account management team to maximize the lifetime value of our customer relationships through retention and upsell efforts.  Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to support new and existing customer growth and maintain customer satisfaction.  If we cannot provide the tools and training to our teams to efficiently do their jobs and satisfy customer demands, we may not be able to achieve anticipated revenue growth as quickly as expected.. In addition, we plan to continue to expand our direct sales force both domestically and internationally. We believe that there is significant competition for experienced sales professionals with the sales skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth in the future will depend, in part, on our success in recruiting, training, and retaining a sufficient number of experienced sales professionals. New hires require significant training and time before they achieve full productivity, particularly in new sales segments and territories. Our recent hires and planned hires may not become as productive as quickly as we expect, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the future in the markets where we do business. Our business will be harmed if our sales expansion efforts do not generate a significant increase in revenue.. We recognize subscription revenue over the term of our customer contracts and, consequently, downturns or upturns in new sales may not be immediately reflected in our operating results and may be difficult to discern.. We recognize subscription revenue from our platform ratably over the terms of our customers' agreements, most of which have one-year terms but an increasing number of which have up to three-year terms. As a result, most of the revenue we report in each quarter is derived from the recognition of deferred revenue relating to subscriptions entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any single quarter may have a small impact on our revenue results for that quarter. However, such a decline will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our platform, and potential changes in our pricing policies or rate of expansion or retention, may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. We may also be unable to reduce our cost structure in line with a significant deterioration in sales. In addition, a significant majority of our costs are expensed as incurred, while revenue is recognized over the life of the agreement with our customer. As a result, increased growth in the number of our customers could continue to result in our recognition of more costs than revenue in the earlier periods of the terms of our agreements. Our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term.. We previously identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting.  Although we believe these material weaknesses have since been remediated, we may identify material weaknesses in the future or otherwise fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting in the future and may not be able to accurately or timely report our financial condition or results of operations, which may adversely affect investor confidence in us and the price of our common stock.. As a public company, we are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in such internal controls. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the \"Sarbanes-Oxley Act\"), requires that we evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and, beginning with this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, provide a management report on internal control over financial reporting. During 2015, we identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Although we remediated these material weaknesses as of December 31, 2016, we cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future.. 22. The process of designing and implementing internal control over financial reporting required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act has been and will continue to be time consuming, costly and complicated. If, during the evaluation and testing process, we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, our management will be unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. Even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may conclude that there are material weaknesses with respect to our internal controls or the level at which our internal controls are documented, designed, implemented, or reviewed. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or when required in the future, if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected, and we could become subject to stockholder lawsuits, litigation or investigations by the stock exchange on which our securities are listed, the SEC, or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources, and cause investor perceptions to be adversely affected and potentially resulting in restatement of our financial statements for prior periods and a decline in the market price of our stock.. We rely on a limited number of data centers to deliver our cloud-based software solutions and any disruption of service at these centers could harm our business.. We manage our software solutions and serve most of our customers using a cloud-based infrastructure that is operated by a limited number of third-party data center facilities in North America and Europe. We do not control the operation of these facilities. Any changes in third-party service levels at our data centers or any disruptions or delays from errors, defects, hacking incidents, security breaches, computer viruses, bad acts or performance problems could harm our reputation, damage our customers' businesses, and adversely affect our business and operating results. Our data centers are also vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, war, terrorist attacks, power losses, hardware failures, systems failures, telecommunications failures and similar events. If our data centers were compromised or unavailable or our users were unable to access our solutions for any reason, our business and operations would be materially and adversely affected.. Our customers have experienced minor disruptions and outages in accessing our solutions in the past, and may in the future experience, disruptions, outages and other performance problems. Although we expend considerable effort to ensure that our platform performance is capable of handling existing and increased traffic levels, the ability of our cloud-based solutions to effectively manage any increased capacity requirements depends on our third-party providers. Our third-party data center providers may not be able to meet such performance requirements, especially to cover peak levels or spikes in traffic, and as a result, our customers may experience delays in accessing our solutions or encounter slower performance in our solutions, which could significantly harm the operations of these facilities. Interruptions in our services might reduce our revenue, cause us to issue credits to customers, subject us to potential liability, and cause customers to terminate their subscriptions or harm our renewal rates.. If we do not accurately predict our infrastructure capacity requirements, our customers could experience service shortfalls. The provisioning of additional cloud hosting capacity and data center infrastructure requires lead time. As we continue to add data centers, restructure our data management plans, and increase capacity in existing and future data centers, we have and expect to in the future move or transfer our data and our customers' data. Despite precautions taken during such processes and procedures, any unsuccessful data transfers may impair the delivery of our service, and we may experience costs or downtime in connection with the transfer of data to other facilities which may lead to, among other things, customer dissatisfaction and non-renewals. The owners of our data center facilities have no obligation to renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to renew these agreements on commercially reasonable terms, we may be required to transfer to new data center facilities, and we may incur significant costs and possible service interruption in connection with doing so.. If we are unable to develop and maintain successful relationships with resellers, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected.. We believe that continued growth in our business is dependent upon identifying, developing, and maintaining strategic relationships with companies that resell our solutions. We plan to expand our small but growing network of resellers and to add new resellers, in particular to help grow our mid-market business globally. Our agreements with our existing resellers are non-exclusive, meaning resellers may offer customers the products of several different companies, including products that compete with ours. They may also cease marketing our solutions with limited or no notice and with little or no penalty. We expect that any additional resellers we identify and develop will be similarly non-exclusive and not bound by any requirement to continue to market our solutions. If we fail to identify additional resellers, in a timely and. 23. cost-effective manner, or at all, or are unable to assist our current and future resellers in independently selling our solutions, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. If resellers do not effectively market and sell our solutions, or fail to meet the needs of our customers, our reputation and ability to grow our business may also be adversely affected.. If we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected.. We believe that maintaining and enhancing our reputation for accounting and finance software is critical to our relationships with our existing customers and to our ability to attract new customers. The successful promotion of our brand attributes will depend on a number of factors, including our marketing efforts, our ability to continue to develop high-quality software, and our ability to successfully differentiate our platform from competitive products and services. Our brand promotion activities may not ultimately be successful or yield increased revenue. In addition, independent industry analysts provide reviews of our platform, as well as products and services offered by our competitors, and perception of our platform in the marketplace may be significantly influenced by these reviews. If these reviews are negative, or less positive as compared to those of our competitors' products and services, our brand may be adversely affected.. The promotion of our brand requires us to make substantial expenditures, and we anticipate that the expenditures will increase as our market becomes more competitive, as we expand into new markets and as more sales are generated. To the extent that these activities yield increased revenue, this revenue may not offset the increased expenses we incur. If we do not successfully maintain and enhance our brand, our business may not grow, we may have reduced pricing power relative to competitors, and we could lose customers or fail to attract potential customers, all of which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our long-term success depends, in part, on our ability to expand the sales of our solutions to customers located outside of the United States, and thus our business is susceptible to risks associated with international sales and operations.. We currently maintain offices and/or have sales personnel in Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Malaysia, Netherlands, Poland, Singapore, South Africa, and the United Kingdom, and we intend to build out our international operations. As part of our ongoing international expansion strategy, in August 2016, we acquired Runbook, a Netherlands-based provider of financial close automation software solutions to SAP customers. We derived approximately 20%,16%, and 14% of our revenues from sales outside the United States for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. Any international expansion efforts that we may undertake, including our Runbook Acquisition, may not be successful. In addition, conducting international operations in new markets subjects us to new risks that we have not generally faced in the United States. These risks include:. •  localization of our solutions, including translation into foreign languages and adaptation for local practices and regulatory requirements;. •  lack of familiarity and burdens of complying with foreign laws, legal standards, regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers;. •  unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, taxes, trade laws, tariffs, export quotas, custom duties or other trade restrictions;. •  differing technology standards;. •  longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable;. •  difficulties in managing and staffing international operations and differing employer/employee relationships;. •  fluctuations in exchange rates that may increase the volatility of our foreign-based revenue;. •  potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value-added tax (or other tax) systems and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings;. •  uncertain political and economic climates, including the significant volatility in the global financial markets; and. •  reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries.. 24. These factors may cause our international costs of doing business to exceed our comparable domestic costs. Operating in international markets also requires significant management attention and financial resources. Any negative impact from our international business efforts could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition as a whole.. We may be unable to integrate acquired businesses and technologies successfully or achieve the expected benefits of such transactions.. We regularly evaluate and consider potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses, technologies, services, products, and other assets. For example, in 2016, we completed the Runbook Acquisition. We also may enter into relationships with other businesses to expand our products and services, which could involve preferred or exclusive licenses, additional channels of distributions or discount pricing.. Any future acquisition, investment or business relationship may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. In particular, we may encounter difficulties assimilating or integrating the businesses, technologies, products, personnel or operations of the acquired companies, particularly if the key personnel of the acquired company choose not to work for us, their software is not easily adapted to work with our platform, or we have difficulty retaining the customers of any acquired business due to changes in ownership, management or otherwise. In addition, Runbook offers an on-premise solution to its customers. If we are unable to migrate those customers to our cloud solution or if we are unable to integrate Runbook's on-premise software with our platform, our business may be adversely affected. Acquisitions may also disrupt our business, divert our resources, and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for development of our existing business. Moreover, the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, investment, or business relationship may not be realized or we may be exposed to unknown risks or liabilities.. Negotiating these transactions can be time-consuming, difficult, and expensive, and our ability to complete these transactions may often be subject to approvals that are beyond our control. Consequently, these transactions, even if announced, may not be completed. For one or more of those transactions, we may:. •  issue additional equity securities that would dilute our existing stockholders;. •  use cash that we may need in the future to operate our business;. •  incur large charges or substantial liabilities;. •  incur debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay;. •  encounter difficulties retaining key employees of the acquired company or integrating diverse software codes or business cultures; and. •  become subject to adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation, and amortization, or deferred compensation charges.. We use third-party contractors outside of the United States to supplement our research and development capabilities, which may expose us to risks, including risks inherent in foreign operations.. We use third-party contractors outside of the United States to supplement our research and development capabilities. We currently use third-party contractors located in Romania and China. Managing operations that are remote from our U.S. headquarters is difficult and we may not be able to manage these third-party contractors successfully. If we fail to maintain productive relationships with these contractors generally, we may be required to develop our solutions in a less efficient and cost-effective manner and our product release schedules may be delayed while we hire software developers or find alternative contract development resources. Additionally, while we take precautions to ensure that software components developed by our third-party contractors are reviewed and that our source code is protected, misconduct by our third-party contractors could result in infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property. Furthermore, any acts of espionage, malware attacks, theft of confidential information or other malicious cyber incidents attributed to our third-party contractors may compromise our system infrastructure, expose us to litigation and lead to reputational harm that could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.. 25. Any failure to protect our intellectual property rights could impair our ability to protect our proprietary technology and our brand.. Our success and ability to compete depend, in part, upon our intellectual property. We currently have one patent application, which may not result in an issued patent. We primarily rely on copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, trade secret protection, and confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights. However, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property rights may be inadequate.. In order to protect our intellectual property rights, we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect these rights. In the past, we have utilized demand letters as a means to assert and resolve claims regarding potential misuse of our proprietary or trade secret information. Litigation brought to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly, time-consuming, and distracting to management, and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. Our failure to secure, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our brand and adversely impact our business.. Lawsuits or other claims by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights could cause us to incur significant expenses or liabilities.. There is considerable patent and other intellectual property development activity in our industry. Our future success depends, in part, on not infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. From time to time, our competitors or other third parties may claim that our solutions and underlying technology infringe or violate their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing upon such rights. We may be unaware of the intellectual property rights of others that may cover some or all of our technology. Any claims or litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, could require that we pay substantial damages or ongoing royalty payments, prevent us from offering our solutions or require that we comply with other unfavorable terms. We may also be obligated to indemnify our customers or other companies in connection with any such litigation and to obtain licenses, modify our solutions, or refund subscription fees, which could further exhaust our resources. In addition, we may incur substantial costs to resolve claims or litigation, whether or not successfully asserted against us, which could include payment of significant settlement, royalty or license fees, modification of our solutions, or refunds to customers of subscription fees. Even if we were to prevail in the event of claims or litigation against us, any claim or litigation regarding our intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and divert the attention of our management and other employees from our business operations. Such disputes could also disrupt our solutions, adversely impacting our customer satisfaction and ability to attract customers.. We use open source software in our products, which could subject us to litigation or other actions.. We use open source software in our products and may use more open source software in the future. From time to time, there have been claims challenging the use of open source software against companies that incorporate open source software into their products. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming misuse of, or a right to compensation for, what we believe to be open source software. Litigation could be costly for us to defend, have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition or require us to devote additional research and development resources to change our products. In addition, if we were to combine our proprietary software products with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain of the open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software products. If we inappropriately use open source software, we may be required to re-engineer our products, discontinue the sale of our products or take other remedial actions.. Privacy and data security concerns, and data collection and transfer restrictions and related domestic or foreign regulations may limit the use and adoption of our solutions and adversely affect our business.. Personal privacy, information security, and data protection are significant issues in the United States, Europe and many other jurisdictions where we offer our platform. The regulatory framework governing the collection, processing, storage and use of business information, particularly information that affects financial statements, and personal data, is rapidly evolving and any failure or perceived failure to comply with applicable privacy, security, or data protection laws or regulations may adversely affect our business.. The U.S. federal and various state and foreign governments have adopted or proposed requirements regarding the collection, distribution, use, security and storage of personally identifiable information and other data relating to individuals, and federal and state consumer protection laws are being applied to enforce regulations related to the online. 26. collection, use and dissemination of data. Some of these requirements include obligations on companies to notify individuals of security breaches involving particular personal information, which could result from breaches experienced by us or by organizations with which we have formed strategic relationships. Even though we may have contractual protections with such organizations, notifications related to a security breach could impact our reputation, harm customer confidence, hurt our expansion into new markets or cause us to lose existing customers.. Further, many foreign countries and governmental bodies, including the European Union (the \"EU\"), where we conduct business and have offices, have laws and regulations concerning the collection and use of personal data obtained from their residents or by businesses operating within their jurisdiction. These laws and regulations often are more restrictive than those in the United States. Laws and regulations in these jurisdictions apply broadly to the collection, use, storage, disclosure and security of data that identifies or may be used to identify or locate an individual, such as names, email addresses and, in some jurisdictions, Internet Protocol, or IP, addresses. With regard to data transfers of personal data from our European employees and customers to the United States, we historically relied on the U.S. Department of Commerce's Safe Harbor Privacy Principles and compliance with the U.S.-EU and U.S.-Swiss Safe Harbor Frameworks as agreed to and set forth by the U.S. Department of Commerce, and the European Union and Switzerland, which established means for legitimizing the transfer of personal data by companies doing business in Europe from the EU to the United States. As a result of the October 6, 2015 European Court of Justice opinion in Case C-362/14 (Schrems v. Data Protection Commissioner) (the \"ECJ Ruling\"), the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor Framework was deemed an invalid method of compliance with EU restrictions on data transfers. We have taken certain measures to legitimize our transfers of personal data, both internally and on behalf of our customers, from the EU to the United States in the wake of the ECJ Ruling.  Additionally, EU and U.S. political authorities adopted the U.S. EU Privacy Shield on July 12, 2016, which may provide a new mechanism for companies to transfer EU personal data to the United States. While we now have Privacy Shield certification in place that we believe allow for the lawful transfer of personal data from the EU to the United States, it is possible that these mechanisms may be challenged or evolve to include new legal requirements that could have an impact on data transfers. It is unclear at this time whether the U.S. EU Privacy Shield will serve as an appropriate means for us to transfer EU personal data from the EU to the United States.  Our means for transferring personal data from the EU may not be adopted by all of our customers and may be subject to legal challenge by data protection authorities, and we may experience reluctance or refusal by European customers to use our solutions due to potential risk exposure as a result of the ECJ Ruling. We and our customers face a risk of enforcement actions taken by EU data protection authorities regarding data transfers from the EU to the United States.. We also expect that there will continue to be new proposed laws, regulations and industry standards concerning privacy, data protection and information security in the United States, the EU, and other jurisdictions. For example, the European Commission recently adopted a General Data Protection Regulation (the \"GDPR\"), effective on May 25, 2018, that will supersede current EU data protection legislation, the GDPR became directly applicable to EU member states, imposed more stringent EU data protection requirements for processors and controllers of personal data, and for companies established in the EU and those outside the EU if they collect and use personal data of EU subjects, and provides for greater penalties for noncompliance.  As the GDPR is a regulation rather than a directive, it applies throughout all EU member states, but permits member states to enact supplemental requirements if they so choose. Noncompliance with the GDPR can trigger fines up to \20020 million or 4% of global annual revenues, whichever is higher. We cannot yet determine the impact such future laws, regulations and standards may have on our business. Such laws and regulations are often subject to differing interpretations and may be inconsistent among jurisdictions. These and other requirements could reduce demand for our service, increase our costs, impair our ability to grow our business, or restrict our ability to store and process data or, in some cases, impact our ability to offer our service in some locations and may subject us to liability. Further, in view of new or modified federal, state or foreign laws and regulations, industry standards, contractual obligations and other legal obligations, or any changes in their interpretation, we may find it necessary or desirable to fundamentally change our business activities and practices or to expend significant resources to modify our software or platform and otherwise adapt to these changes. We may be unable to make such changes and modifications in a commercially reasonable manner or at all, and our ability to develop new products and features could be limited.. Further, following a referendum in June 2016 in which voters in the United Kingdom approved an exit from the EU, the United Kingdom government initiated a process to leave the EU in March 2017 and began negotiations to leave the EU in June 2017 (often referred to as \"Brexit\"), which is expected to be completed within the next two years. The Brexit has created uncertainty with regard to the regulation of data protection in the United Kingdom.  In particular, it is unclear whether the United Kingdom will enact data protection laws or regulations designed to be consistent with the pending EU GDPR and how data transfers to and from the United Kingdom will be regulated. In the immediate term, the United Kingdom will remain bound by the EU GDPR following its exit from the EU since the U.K. government has announced its intention to enact a 'Great Repeal Bill' which enshrines all EU law into domestic U.K. legislation. While the U.K. Information Commissioner's Office has announced that there are no plans to dilute U.K. data protection laws, it is less. 27. certain how data protection laws or regulations will develop in the medium to longer term, and how data transfers to and from the U.K. will be regulated.. Our customers also expect that we comply with regulatory standards that may place additional burdens on us. Our customers expect us to meet voluntary certifications or adhere to standards established by third parties, such as the SSAE 18, SOC1 and SOC2 audit processes, and may demand that they be provided a report from our auditors that we are in compliance. If we are unable to maintain these certifications or meet these standards, it could adversely affect our customers' demand for our service and could harm our business.. The costs of compliance with and other burdens imposed by laws, regulations and standards may limit the use and adoption of our service and reduce overall demand for it, or lead to significant fines, penalties or liabilities for any noncompliance. Privacy, information security, and data protection concerns, whether valid or not valid, may inhibit market adoption of our platform, particularly in certain industries and foreign countries.. We depend and rely upon SaaS applications from third parties to operate our business and interruptions or performance problems with these technologies may adversely affect our business and operating results.. We rely heavily on SaaS applications from third parties in order to operate critical functions of our business, including billing and order management, enterprise resource planning, and financial accounting services. If these services become unavailable due to extended outages, interruptions, or because they are no longer available on commercially reasonable terms, our expenses could increase, our ability to manage finances could be interrupted and our processes for managing sales of our solutions and supporting our customers could be impaired until equivalent services, if available, are identified, obtained, and implemented, all of which could adversely affect our business.. We rely on third-party computer hardware and software that may be difficult to replace or which could cause errors or failures of our software solutions.. We rely on computer hardware purchased or leased and software licensed from third parties in order to deliver our software solutions. This hardware and software may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Any loss of the right to use any of this hardware or software could result in delaying or preventing our ability to provide our software solutions until equivalent technology is either developed by us or, if available, identified, obtained and integrated. In addition, errors or defects in third-party hardware or software used in our software solutions could result in errors or a failure, which could damage our reputation, impede our ability to provide our platform or process information, and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We face exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations that could harm our results of operations.. We conduct transactions, particularly intercompany transactions, in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, primarily the British pound and the Euro. As we grow our international operations, we expect the amount of our revenues that are denominated in foreign currencies to increase in the future. Accordingly, changes in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could affect our revenue and operating results due to transactional and translational remeasurements that are reflected in our results of operations. As a result of such foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, it could be more difficult to detect underlying trends in our business and results of operations. In addition, to the extent that fluctuations in currency exchange rates cause our results of operations to differ from our expectations or the expectations of our investors, the trading price of our common stock could be adversely affected.. Additionally, as a result of Brexit, global markets and foreign currencies were adversely impacted.  In particular, the value of the British pound declined as compared to the U.S. dollar and other currencies.  This volatility in foreign currencies is expected to continue as the U.K. negotiates and executes its exit from the EU, but it is uncertain over what time period this will occur.  A significantly weaker British pound compared to the U.S. dollar could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We do not currently maintain a program to hedge transactional exposures in foreign currencies. However, in the future, we may use derivative instruments, such as foreign currency forward and option contracts, to hedge exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The use of such hedging activities may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place. Moreover, the use of hedging instruments may introduce additional risks if we are unable to structure effective hedges with such instruments.. 28. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could impair our ability to compete in international markets due to licensing requirements and subject us to liability if we are not in full compliance with applicable laws.. Our solutions are subject to export controls, including the Commerce Department's Export Administration Regulations and various economic and trade sanctions regulations established by the Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Controls. Obtaining the necessary authorizations, including any required license, for a particular export or sale may be time-consuming, is not guaranteed and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. The U.S. export control laws and economic sanctions laws prohibit the export, re-export or transfer of specific products and services to U.S. embargoed or sanctioned countries, governments and persons. Even though we take precautions to prevent our solutions from being provided to U.S. sanctions targets, our solutions could be sold by resellers or could be used by persons in sanctioned countries despite such precautions. Failure to comply with the U.S. export control, sanctions and import laws could have negative consequences, including government investigations, penalties and reputational harm. We and our employees could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, including the possible loss of export or import privileges, fines, and, in extreme cases, the incarceration of responsible employees or managers. In addition, if our resellers fail to obtain appropriate import, export or re-export licenses or authorizations, we may also be adversely affected through reputational harm and penalties.. In addition, various countries regulate the import of encryption technology, including through import permitting/licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our solutions or could limit our customers' ability to implement or access our solutions in those countries. Changes in our solutions or changes in export, sanctions and import regulations may create delays in the introduction and sale of our solutions in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from accessing our solutions or, in some cases, preventing the export or import of our solutions to some countries, governments or persons altogether. Any change in export or import regulations, economic sanctions or related laws, shift in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our solutions, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our solutions to existing or potential customers with international operations. Any decreased use of our solutions or limitation on our ability to export or sell our solutions would likely adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 29. The nature of our business requires the application of complex revenue and expense recognition rules and the current legislative and regulatory environment affecting generally accepted accounting principles is uncertain. Significant changes in current principles could affect our financial statements going forward and changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse, unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and harm our operating results.. The accounting rules and regulations that we must comply with are complex and subject to interpretation by the FASB, the SEC and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. Recent actions and public comments from the FASB and the SEC have focused on the integrity of financial reporting and internal controls. In addition, many companies' accounting policies are being subject to heightened scrutiny by regulators and the public. Further, the accounting rules and regulations are continually changing in ways that could materially impact our financial statements. For example, in May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update, or ASU, No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), as amended, which will supersede nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance. Although the new standard permits early adoption as early as January 1, 2017, the effective date of the new revenue standard was January 1, 2018. The new standard permitted adoption either by using (i) a full retrospective approach for all periods presented in the period of adoption or (ii) a modified retrospective approach with the cumulative effect of initially applying the new standard recognized at the date of initial application and providing certain additional disclosures. We will adopt the new revenue guidance in the first quarter of 2018 using the full retrospective method to restate each prior reporting period presented. We are currently assessing the impact of the new revenue guidance on our arrangements; we anticipate this standard will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. We currently believe that the new guidance will impact the amount and timing of incremental costs of obtaining a contract, such as sales commissions. We generally do not pay sales commissions upon contract renewal. Accordingly, under the new revenue guidance, the sales commissions will be recognized over an estimated period of benefit rather than over the non-cancelable term under current guidance. The new guidance is also expected to impact our on-premise solutions subject to current software revenue recognition guidance, as we may be required to recognize as revenue a significant portion of the contract consideration upon delivery of the software compared to the current practice of recognizing the contract consideration ratably over time for certain arrangements. The new guidance will also require incremental disclosures of our revenue arrangements. We are in process of quantifying the impact of these changes. Adoption of this standard will also require changes to our business processes, systems and controls to support the new revenue recognition guidance. We are in the process of identifying and implementing such changes.. We cannot predict the impact of future changes to accounting principles or our accounting policies on our financial statements going forward, which could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of the change. In addition, if we were to change our critical accounting estimates, including those related to the recognition of license revenue and other revenue sources, our operating results could be significantly affected.. Incorrect or improper implementation or use of our solutions could result in customer dissatisfaction and negatively affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and growth prospects.. Our platform is deployed in a wide variety of technology environments and into a broad range of complex workflows. Our platform has been integrated into large-scale, enterprise-wide technology environments, and specialized use cases, and our success depends on our ability to implement our platform successfully in these environments. We often assist our customers in implementing our platform, but many customers attempt to implement even complex deployments themselves or use a third-party service firm. If we or our customers are unable to implement our platform successfully, or are unable to do so in a timely manner, customer perceptions of our platform and company may be impaired, our reputation and brand may suffer, and customers may choose not to renew or expand the use of our platform.. Our customers and third-party resellers may need training in the proper use of our platform to maximize its potential. If our platform is not implemented or used correctly or as intended, including if customers input incorrect or incomplete financial data into our platform, inadequate performance may result. Because our customers rely on our platform to manage their financial close and other financial tasks, the incorrect or improper implementation or use of our platform, our failure to train customers on how to efficiently and effectively use our platform, or our failure to provide adequate product support to our customers, may result in negative publicity or legal claims against us. Also, as we continue to expand our customer base, any failure by us to properly provide these services will likely result in lost opportunities for additional subscriptions to our platform.. 30. Any failure to offer high-quality product support may adversely affect our relationships with our customers and our financial results.. In deploying and using our solutions, our customers depend on our support services team to resolve complex technical and operational issues. We may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for product support. We also may be unable to modify the nature, scope and delivery of our product support to compete with changes in product support services provided by our competitors. Increased customer demand for product support, without corresponding revenue, could increase costs and adversely affect our operating results. Our sales are highly dependent on our business reputation and on positive recommendations from our existing customers. Any failure to maintain high-quality product support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality product support, could adversely affect our reputation, our ability to sell our solutions to existing and prospective customers, our business, operating results, and financial position.. If the market for SaaS solutions develops more slowly than we expect or declines, our business would be adversely affected.. The market for SaaS solutions is less mature than the market for on-premise software applications, and the adoption rate of SaaS solutions may be slower at companies in industries with heightened data security interests or business practices requiring highly customizable application software. Many organizations have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to integrate traditional on-premise solutions into their businesses, and therefore may be reluctant or unwilling to purchase SaaS solutions. In addition, some organizations have been reluctant to use cloud-based solutions because they have concerns regarding the risks associated with the reliability or security of the technology delivery model associated with these solutions. Because our solutions involve the aggregation, storage and use of confidential information and related data, including highly confidential financial data, some customers may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate to our cloud-based solutions.. It is difficult to predict customer adoption rates and demand for our software solutions, the future growth rate and size of the market or the entry of competitive products or services. The expansion of the SaaS solutions market depends on a number of factors, including the cost, performance and perceived value associated with SaaS, as well as the ability of SaaS providers to address data security and privacy concerns. Government agencies have adopted, or may adopt, laws and regulations regarding the collection and use of personal information obtained from consumers and other individuals, or may seek to access information on our platform, either of which may reduce the overall demand for our platform. If we or other SaaS providers experience data security incidents, loss of customer data, disruptions in delivery, or other problems, the market for SaaS solutions, including our platform, may be negatively affected. If SaaS solutions do not continue to achieve market acceptance, or there is a reduction in demand for SaaS solutions caused by a lack of customer acceptance, technological challenges, data security or privacy concerns, governmental regulation, competing technologies and products, or decreases in information technology spending, it would result in decreased revenue and our business would be adversely affected.. Unfavorable conditions in our industry or the global economy could limit our ability to grow our business and negatively affect our operating results.. Our operating results may vary based on the impact of changes in our industry or the global economy on us or our customers. The revenue growth and potential profitability of our business depend on demand for business software applications and services generally and for accounting and finance systems in particular. Weak economic conditions affect the rate of accounting and finance and information technology spending and could adversely affect our customers' or potential customers' ability or willingness to purchase our cloud platform, delay purchasing decisions, reduce the value or duration of their subscription contracts, or affect attrition rates, all of which could adversely affect our operating results. If economic conditions deteriorate, our customers and prospective customers may elect to decrease their accounting and finance and information technology budgets, which would limit our ability to grow our business and negatively affect our operating results.. Changes in laws and regulations related to the internet and cloud computing or changes to internet infrastructure may diminish the demand for our solutions, and could have a negative impact on our business.. The future success of our business depends upon the continued use of the internet as a primary medium for commerce, communication, and business applications. Federal, state, or foreign government bodies or agencies have in the past adopted, and may in the future adopt, laws or regulations affecting the use of the internet as a commercial medium. Regulators in some industries have also adopted, and may in the future adopt regulations or interpretive positions regarding the use of SaaS and cloud computing solutions. For example, some financial services regulators have. 31. imposed guidelines for the use of cloud computing services that mandate specific controls or require financial services enterprises to obtain regulatory approval prior to utilizing such software. Changes in these laws or regulations could require us to modify our solutions in order to comply with these changes. In addition, government agencies or private organizations have imposed and may impose additional taxes, fees, or other charges for accessing the internet or commerce conducted via the internet. These laws or charges could limit the growth of internet-related commerce or communications generally, or result in reductions in the demand for internet-based solutions and services such as ours. In addition, the use of the internet as a business tool could be adversely affected due to delays in the development or adoption of new standards and protocols to handle increased demands of internet activity, security, reliability, cost, ease-of-use, accessibility, and quality of service. The performance of the internet and its acceptance as a business tool has been adversely affected by \"viruses,\" \"worms,\" and similar malicious programs and the internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of damage to portions of its infrastructure. If the use of the internet is adversely affected by these issues, demand for our solutions could decline.. The adoption of any laws or regulations adversely affecting the growth, popularity or use of the Internet, including laws impacting Internet neutrality, could decrease the demand for our products and increase our operating costs. The current legislative and regulatory landscape regarding the regulation of the Internet and, in particular, Internet neutrality, in the United States is subject to uncertainty. The Federal Communications Commission passed Open Internet rules in February 2015, effective in June 2015, generally providing for Internet neutrality with respect to fixed and mobile broadband Internet service. On December 14, 2017, the Federal Communications Commission voted to repeal Open Internet rules generally providing for Internet neutrality with respect to fixed and mobile broadband Internet service regulations and return to a \"light-touch\" regulatory framework. However, the repeal has not yet taken effect and a number of parties have already stated their intent to appeal this order, thus, the future impact of such repeal and any challenge thereto remains uncertain. Any changes in the legislative and regulatory landscape regarding Internet neutrality, or otherwise regarding the regulation of the Internet, could harm our business.. We provide service level commitments under our customer contracts, and if we fail to meet these contractual commitments, our revenues could be adversely affected.. Our customer agreements typically provide service level commitments. If we are unable to meet the stated service level commitments or suffer extended periods of unavailability for our applications, we may be contractually obligated to provide these customers with service credits, refunds for prepaid amounts related to unused subscription services, or we could face contract terminations. Our revenues could be significantly affected if we suffer unscheduled downtime that exceeds the allowed downtimes under our agreements with our customers. Any extended service outages could adversely affect our reputation, revenues and operating results.. Seasonality could cause our operating results and financial metrics to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and make them more difficult to predict.. We typically add fewer customers in the first quarter of the year than other quarters. We also experience a higher volume of sales at the end of each quarter and year, which is often the result of buying decisions by our customers. Seasonality may be reflected to a much lesser extent, and sometimes may not be immediately apparent, in our revenue, due to the fact that we recognize subscription revenue over the term of our agreements. We may also increase expenses in a period in anticipation of future revenues. Changes in the number of customers and users in different periods will cause fluctuations in our financial metrics and, to a lesser extent, revenues. Those changes and fluctuations in our expenses will affect our results on a quarterly basis, and will make forecasting our future operating results and financial metrics difficult.. Our international operations subject us to potentially adverse tax consequences.. We report our taxable income in various jurisdictions worldwide based upon our business operations in those jurisdictions. Our intercompany relationships are subject to complex transfer pricing regulations administered by taxing authorities in various jurisdictions. The relevant taxing authorities may disagree with our determinations as to the value of assets sold or acquired or income and expenses attributable to specific jurisdictions. If such a disagreement were to occur, and our position were not sustained, we could be required to pay additional taxes, interest and penalties, which could result in one-time tax charges, higher effective tax rates, reduced cash flows, and lower overall profitability of our operations. We believe that our financial statements reflect adequate reserves to cover such a contingency, but there can be no assurances in that regard.. 32. The enactment of legislation implementing changes in the U.S. taxation of international business activities or the adoption of other tax reform policies could materially impact our financial position and results of operations.. Recent changes to U.S. tax laws, including limitations on the ability of taxpayers to claim and utilize foreign tax credits, as well as changes to U.S. tax laws that may be enacted in the future, could impact the tax treatment of our foreign earnings. Due to expansion of our international business activities, any changes in the U.S. taxation of such activities may increase our worldwide effective tax rate and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.. In December 2017, the U.S. Congress passed and the President signed legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"the Tax Act\"), which contains many significant changes to the U.S. tax laws. The consequences of these changes, including whether and how state, local and foreign jurisdictions will react to such changes, have not yet been determined. Changes in corporate tax rates, the realizability of the net deferred tax assets relating to our U.S. operations, the taxation of foreign earnings, and the deductibility of expenses contained in the Tax Act or other tax reform legislation could have a material impact on the value of our deferred tax assets, could result in significant one-time charges in the current or future taxable years, and could increase our future U.S. tax expense.  Furthermore, changes to the taxation of undistributed foreign earnings could change our future intentions regarding reinvestment of such earnings.  The foregoing items could have an adverse effect on our operating results, cash flow, or financial condition. Our ability to use our net operating losses to offset future taxable income may be subject to limitations.. At December 31, 2017, we had federal and state net operating loss carryforwards (\"NOLs\"), of $122.3 million and $60.3 million, respectively. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\") a corporation that undergoes an \"ownership change\" is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its NOLs to offset future taxable income. Our existing NOLs may be subject to limitations arising from previous ownership changes, and if we undergo an ownership change, our ability to utilize NOLs could be further limited by Section 382 of the Code. Future changes in our stock ownership, some of which are outside of our control, could result in an ownership change under Section 382 of the Code. Furthermore, our ability to utilize NOLs of companies that we may acquire in the future may be subject to limitations. There is also a risk that due to regulatory changes, such as suspensions on the use of NOLs, or other unforeseen reasons, our existing NOLs could expire or otherwise be unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities. For these reasons, we may not be able to realize a tax benefit from the use of our NOLs, whether or not we attain profitability. The Tax Act includes changes to the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate, and our NOLs and other deferred tax assets have been revalued at the newly enacted rate.  The revaluation did not have a material impact on our consolidated balance sheet and consolidated statement of operations because we currently maintain a full valuation allowance on our U.S. deferred tax assets.. Taxing authorities may successfully assert that we should have collected, or in the future should collect, sales and use, value-added or similar taxes, and we could be subject to liability with respect to past or future sales, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. Sales and use, value-added and similar tax laws and rates vary greatly by jurisdiction and are subject to change from time to time. Some jurisdictions in which we do not collect such taxes may assert that such taxes are applicable, which could result in tax assessments, penalties and interest, and we may be required to collect such taxes in the future. Such tax assessments, penalties and interest or future requirements may adversely affect our results of operations.. We might require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all.. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new features or enhance our existing solutions, improve our operating infrastructure or acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing secured by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly impaired.. 33. Natural disasters and other events beyond our control could harm our business.. Natural disasters or other catastrophic events may cause damage or disruption to our operations, international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have a strong negative effect on us. Our business operations are subject to interruption by natural disasters, fire, power shortages, pandemics and other events beyond our control. Although we maintain crisis management and disaster response plans, such events could make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver our solutions to our customers, and could decrease demand for our solutions. The majority of our research and development activities, corporate headquarters, information technology systems and other critical business operations are located in California, which has experienced major earthquakes in the past. Significant recovery time could be required to resume operations and our financial condition and operating results could be harmed in the event of a major earthquake or catastrophic event.. If our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings.. We review our goodwill and intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. At December 31, 2017, we had goodwill and intangible assets with a net book value of $225.9 million related to the 2013 Acquisition and the Runbook Acquisition. An adverse change in market conditions, particularly if such change has the effect of changing one of our critical assumptions or estimates, could result in a change to the estimation of fair value that could result in an impairment charge to our goodwill or intangible assets. Any such charges may have a material negative impact on our operating results.. Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock. The market price of our common stock may be volatile, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. The market price of our common stock since our initial public offering has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance.  Factors that could cause fluctuations in the market price of our common stock include the following:. •  actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results;. •  the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet these projections;. •  failure of securities analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of our company, changes in financial estimates by any securities analysts who follow our company or our failure to meet these estimates or the expectations of investors;. •  ratings changes by any securities analysts who follow our company;. •  announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures, or capital commitments;. •  changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those in our industry in particular;. •  price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time, including as a result of trends in the economy as a whole;. •  changes in accounting standards, policies, guidelines, interpretations or principles;. •  actual or anticipated developments in our business or our competitors' businesses or the competitive landscape generally;. •  developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property, or our products or third-party proprietary rights;. •  announced or completed acquisitions of businesses or technologies by us or our competitors;. •  new laws or regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business;. •  any major change in our board of directors or management;. •  sales of shares of our common stock by us or our stockholders;. 34. •  lawsuits threatened or filed against us; and. •  other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism, or responses to these events.. In addition, the stock markets, and in particular the market on which our common stock is listed, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies. Stock prices of many technology companies have fluctuated in a manner unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. In the past, stockholders have instituted securities class action litigation following periods of market volatility. If we were to become involved in securities litigation, it could subject us to substantial costs, divert resources and the attention of management from operating our business, and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. The Company is controlled by certain of our Principal Stockholders, whose interests may differ from those of other stockholders.. At December 31, 2017, our Principal Stockholders beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 54% of our outstanding common stock and directors affiliated with our Principal Stockholders comprise a majority of our board of directors. Further, we entered into a Stockholders' Agreement with the Principal Stockholders which provides that the Principal Stockholders are entitled to designate members of our board of directors.  We anticipate that the parties to the Stockholders' Agreement will agree to vote for these nominees as well as other directors recommended by our nominating and corporate governance committee.. Under the Stockholders' Agreement and subject to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and applicable law, for so long as the Principal Stockholders collectively own or hold of record, directly or indirectly, in the aggregate at least 40% of their collective \"Post-IPO Shares\" (as defined in the Stockholders' Agreement), as adjusted for any reorganization, recapitalization, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split or similar changes in our capitalization, the following actions will require the approval of our board of directors, including the affirmative vote of at least two directors designated by Silver Lake Sumeru:. •  any voluntary liquidation, winding up or dissolution or any action relating to a voluntary bankruptcy, reorganization or recapitalization of the company or its subsidiaries;. •  certain dispositions of assets in excess of $50 million or entry into joint ventures requiring a capital contribution in excess of $50 million, in each case, by the company or its subsidiaries;. •  fundamental changes in the nature of the company's or its subsidiaries' existing lines of business or the entry into a new significant line of business;. •  any amendments to the company's amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws;. •  incurrence of indebtedness in excess of $150 million;. •  appointment or termination of the Chief Executive Officer; and. •  change of control transactions.. At December 31, 2017, the Principal Stockholders have sufficient voting power to determine the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval, including mergers and other material transactions, and are able to cause or prevent a change in the composition of our board of directors or a change in control of our company that could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock.. Further, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the doctrine of \"corporate opportunity\" will not apply to Silver Lake Sumeru, Iconiq, their respective affiliates or the directors they designate, pursuant to their rights under the Stockholders' Agreement in a manner that would prohibit them from investing in competing businesses or doing business with our partners or customers. Accordingly, these directors will have the rights to pursue business opportunities that may be of interest to the company and which they would otherwise need to provide to the company.. 35. Although we do not expect to rely on the \"controlled company\" exemption, we are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the stock exchange rules and we qualify for exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements.. Because our Principal Stockholders collectively own a majority of our outstanding common stock, we are considered a \"controlled company\" as that term is set forth in the stock exchange rules. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by another person or group of persons acting together is a \"controlled company\" and may elect not to comply with certain stock exchange rules regarding corporate governance, including:. •  the requirement that a majority of its board of directors consist of independent directors;. •  the requirement that its nominating and corporate governance committee be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities; and. •  the requirement that its compensation committee be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities.. These requirements will not apply to us as long as we remain a \"controlled company.\" Although we qualify as a \"controlled company,\" we do not expect to rely on this exemption and intend to fully comply with all corporate governance requirements under the stock exchange rules. However, if we were to utilize some or all of these exemptions, you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the stock exchange rules regarding corporate governance.. Substantial future sales of shares of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of substantial sales of our common stock, particularly sales by our directors, executive officers and significant stockholders, a large number of shares of our common stock becoming available for sale or the perception in the market that holders of a large number of shares intend to sell their shares.. Under the Stockholders' Agreement, each of Iconiq, Ms. Tucker and Mr. Spanicciati have agreed, subject to certain limited exceptions, not to transfer, sell, exchange, assign, pledge, hypothecate, convey or otherwise dispose of or encumber any shares of our common stock without the consent of Silver Lake Sumeru until the earlier of (i) two years following the completion of our initial public offering, or November 2, 2018, and (ii) Silver Lake Sumeru's reduction of its holdings of common stock following our initial public offering by 50%; provided, however, that each of Ms. Tucker and Mr. Spanicciati has the right to sell a number of shares equal to up to 1% of the total outstanding shares of our common stock annually pursuant to Rule 144 of the Securities Act. In November 2017, we filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 that registered the sale of 33,738,329 shares of our common stock then held by our Principal Stockholders, from time to time, in secondary offerings. In December 2017, certain of our Principal Stockholders sold an aggregate of 4,500,000 shares under the registration statement and the remaining 29,238,329 shares registered under the registration statement may be offered and sold without restriction under the Securities Act. Such shares may be offered from time to time in the open market, in block trades, in underwritten offerings or in any other transaction described in the related prospectus. All shares covered by the registration statement are immediately tradeable unless transferred to an affiliate of the Company. Sales of our common stock by our current stockholders may make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. These sales also could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and make it more difficult for you to sell shares of our common stock.. 36. Provisions of our corporate governance documents could make an acquisition of the company more difficult and may impede attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management, even if beneficial to our stockholders.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and the Delaware General Corporation Law (the \"DGCL\") contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders. Among other things:. •  we have authorized but unissued shares of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and the shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may include supermajority voting, special approval, dividend, or other rights or preferences superior to the rights of stockholders;. •  we have a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms;. •  stockholder action by written consent will be prohibited from and after the date on which the Principal Stockholders beneficially own, in the aggregate, less than 35% in voting power of our stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors;. •  for as long as the Principal Stockholders beneficially own, in the aggregate, at least 40% in voting power of our stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, any amendment, alteration, rescission or repeal of our amended and restated bylaws or our amended and restated certificate of incorporation by our stockholders will require the affirmative vote of 60% of the voting power of our stock entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class and at any time when the Principal Stockholders beneficially own, in the aggregate, less than 40% in voting power of our stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, any amendment, alteration, rescission or repeal of our amended and restated bylaws or of certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation by our stockholders will require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of the voting power of our stock entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class outstanding; and. •  stockholders are required to comply with advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; provided, however, that such advance notice procedures will not apply to the Principal Stockholders at any time such person or entity owns in the aggregate at least 10% of the voting power of our stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors.. Further, as a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, which may impair a takeover attempt that our stockholders may find beneficial. These anti-takeover provisions and other provisions under Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of the company, including actions that our stockholders may deem advantageous, or negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions you desire.. We are an \"emerging growth company\" and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the federal securities laws, and we have taken advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not \"emerging growth companies\" including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we have relied on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. We will remain an \"emerging growth company\" until the last day of the fiscal year following the five-year anniversary of the completion of our initial public offering, although if the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the end of the second quarter of a fiscal year prior to the five-year anniversary, we would cease to be an \"emerging growth company\" as of the following December 31.. 37. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management's attention, and affect our ability to attract and retain executive management and qualified board members.. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the \"Exchange Act\") the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, the listing requirements of the exchanges and other markets upon which our common stock is listed, and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Compliance with these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming, or costly, and increase demand on our systems and resources, particularly after we are no longer an \"emerging growth company.\" The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and operating results. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. In order to maintain and, if required, improve our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting to meet this standard, significant resources and management oversight may be required. We are required to disclose changes made in our internal control and procedures on a quarterly basis and are required to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017. However, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 until the date we are no longer an \"emerging growth company.\" As a result of the complexity involved in complying with the rules and regulations applicable to public companies, our management's attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Although we have already hired additional employees to assist us in complying with these requirements, we may need to hire more employees in the future or engage outside consultants, which will increase our operating expenses.. In addition, changing laws, regulations, and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs, and making some activities more time-consuming. These laws, regulations, and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We intend to invest substantial resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations, and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management's time and attention from business operations to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to their application and practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be adversely affected. As a result of increased disclosure of information in the filings required in a public company, our business and financial condition has become more visible, which we believe may result in threatened or actual litigation, including by competitors and other third parties. If such claims are successful, our business and operating results could be adversely affected, and even if the claims do not result in litigation or are resolved in our favor, these claims, and the time and resources necessary to resolve them, could divert the resources of our management and adversely affect our business and operating results.. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock so any returns will be limited to changes in the value of our common stock.. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings for the development, operation, and expansion of our business, and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future.  Any return to stockholders will therefore be limited to the increase, if any, of our stock price, which may never occur.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If few securities analysts commence coverage of us, or if industry analysts cease coverage of us, the trading price for our common stock would be negatively affected. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our common stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our common stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our common stock could decrease, which might cause our common stock price and trading volume to decline.. 38. Our amended and restated bylaws designate a state or federal court located within the State of Delaware as the exclusive forum for certain litigation that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us.. Pursuant to our amended and restated bylaws, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the sole and exclusive forum for (1) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (2) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders, (3) any action asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL, or (4) any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine shall be a state or federal court located within the State of Delaware, in all cases subject to the court's having personal jurisdiction over indispensable parties named as defendants. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock shall be deemed to have notice of and consented to this provision. The forum selection clause in our amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of discouraging lawsuits against us or our directors and officers and may limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us."
