[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The nature of our business subjects us to a number of uncertainties and risks.  The following risk factors and other risk factors that we discuss in our periodic reports filed with the SEC should be considered for a better understanding of our Company.  These important factors and other matters discussed herein could cause our future actual results or outcomes to differ materially.. OPERATING RISKS. Our financial performance depends on the successful operation of our facilities.  If the risks involved in our operations are not appropriately managed or mitigated, our operations may not be successful and this could adversely affect our results of operations.. Operating electric generating facilities, the coal mine and electric and natural gas distribution systems involves risks, including:. • Disrupted transmission and distribution.  We depend on transmission and distribution facilities, including those operated by unaffiliated parties, to deliver the electricity and gas that we sell to our retail and wholesale customers.  If transmission is interrupted, our ability to sell or deliver product and satisfy our contractual obligations may be hindered;. • Interruptions to supply of fuel and other commodities used in generation and distribution.  Our utilities purchase fuel from a number of suppliers.  Our results of operations could be negatively impacted by disruptions in the delivery of fuel due to various factors, including but not limited to, transportation delays, labor relations, weather and environmental regulations, which could limit our utilities' ability to operate their facilities;. • Electricity is dangerous for employees and the general public should they come in contact with power lines or electrical service facilities and equipment.  Natural conditions and other disasters such as wind, lightning and winter storms can cause wildfires, pole failures and associated property damage and outages;. • Operating hazards such as leaks, mechanical problems and accidents, including explosions, affecting our natural gas distribution system which could impact public safety, reliability and customer confidence;. • Operational limitations imposed by environmental and other regulatory requirements;. • Breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, including those operated by PacifiCorp at the Wyodak Plant;. • Labor relations.  Approximately 27% of our employees are represented by a total of eight collective bargaining agreements;. • Our ability to transition and replace our retirement-eligible utility employees.  At December 31, 2017, approximately 24% of our Electric Utilities and Gas Utilities employees were eligible for regular or early retirement;. • Inability to recruit and retain skilled technical labor; and. • Disruption in the functioning of our information technology and network infrastructure which are vulnerable to disability, failures and unauthorized access.  If our information technology systems were to fail and we were unable to recover in a timely manner, we would be unable to fulfill critical business functions.. Changes in the interpretation of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"TCJA\") could adversely affect us.. On December 22, 2017, the TCJA was signed into law, significantly reforming the U.S. Internal Revenue Code.  The TCJA, among other things, includes a decrease in the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, imposes significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest, allows for the expensing of capital expenditures, and modifies or repeals many business deductions and credits.  The new tax law contains several provisions that impacted our 2017 financial results and will impact the Company into the future.  As allowed under SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (SAB 118), the Company has recorded provisional income tax amounts as of December 31, 2017 for changes pursuant to the TCJA related to depreciation, for which the impacts could not be finalized upon issuance of the Company's financial statements but reasonable estimates could be determined.. 32. In accordance with ASC 740, the enactment of the law on December 22, 2017 required revaluation of federal deferred tax assets and liabilities using the new lower corporate statutory tax rate of 21%.  As a result of the revaluation, deferred tax assets and liabilities were reduced by approximately $309 million.  Of the $309 million, approximately $301 million is related to our regulated utilities and is reclassified to a regulatory liability. This regulatory liability will generally be amortized over the remaining life of the related assets using the normalization principles as specifically prescribed in the TCJA.  On a consolidated financial statement basis, the revaluation of deferred tax assets and liabilities to the 21% federal corporate tax rate that are not subject to the regulatory construct resulted in a one-time, non-cash, income tax benefit of approximately $8 million in 2017.. The TCJA includes provisions limiting interest deductibility in certain circumstances.  While we expect to maintain deductibility of interest expense, the lower tax rate reduces the tax benefits associated with interest deductibility on holding company debt that is not recovered in the regulatory construct.. We are working with utility regulators in each of the states we serve to provide benefits of tax reform to our customers.  We expect an increase in working capital requirements as a result of complying with the TCJA and the impact of providing TCJA benefits to customers.  The lower tax rate effective January 1, 2018, will negatively impact the Company's cash flows by approximately $35 million to $45 million annually for the next several years.. If we are unable to obtain reasonable outcomes with our utility regulators in passing benefits of the TCJA back to customers, or if our interpretations on the provisions of depreciation or interest deductibility in the TCJA change, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially impacted.. Construction, expansion, refurbishment and operation of power generating and transmission and resource extraction facilities involve significant risks which could reduce profitability.. The construction, expansion, refurbishment and operation of power generating and transmission and resource extraction facilities involve many risks, including:. • The inability to obtain required governmental permits and approvals along with the cost of complying with or satisfying conditions imposed upon such approvals;. • Contractual restrictions upon the timing of scheduled outages;. • The cost of supplying or securing replacement power during scheduled and unscheduled outages;. • The unavailability or increased cost of equipment;. • The cost of recruiting and retaining or the unavailability of skilled labor;. • Supply interruptions, work stoppages and labor disputes;. • Increased capital and operating costs to comply with increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations;. • Opposition by members of public or special-interest groups;. • Weather interferences;. • Availability and cost of fuel supplies;. • Unexpected engineering, environmental and geological problems; and. • Unanticipated cost overruns.. The ongoing operation of our facilities involves many of the risks described above, in addition to risks relating to the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes and performance below expected levels of output or efficiency.  New plants may employ recently developed and technologically complex equipment, including newer environmental emission control technology.  Any of these risks could cause us to operate below expected capacity levels, which in turn could reduce revenues, increase expenses or cause us to incur higher operating and maintenance costs and penalties.  While we maintain insurance, obtain warranties from vendors and obligate contractors to meet certain performance levels, the proceeds of such insurance and. 33. our rights under warranties or performance guarantees may not be timely or adequate to cover lost revenues, increased expenses, liability or liquidated damage payments.. Operating results can be adversely affected by variations from normal weather conditions.. Our utility businesses are seasonal businesses and weather patterns can have a material impact on our operating performance.  Demand for electricity is typically greater in the summer and winter months associated with cooling and heating.  Demand for natural gas depends heavily upon winter-weather patterns throughout our service territory and a significant amount of natural gas revenues are recognized in the first and fourth quarters related to the heating season.  Accordingly, our utility operations have historically generated lower revenues and income when weather conditions are cooler than normal in the summer and warmer than normal in the winter. Demand for natural gas is also impacted by summer weather patterns that are cooler than normal and provide higher than normal precipitation; both of which can reduce natural gas demand for irrigation.  Unusually mild summers and winters therefore could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. Our businesses are located in areas that could be subject to seasonal natural disasters such as severe snow and ice storms, flooding and wildfires.  These events could result in interruption of our business, damage to our property such as power lines and substations, and repair and clean-up costs.  We may not be able to recover the costs incurred in restoring transmission and distribution property following these natural disasters through a change in our regulated rates thereby resulting in a negative impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. Our Mining operations are subject to operating risks that are beyond our control which could affect our profitability and production levels.  Our surface mining operations could be disrupted or materially affected due to adverse weather or natural disasters such as heavy snow, strong winds, rain or flooding.. Prices for some of our products and services as well as a portion of our operating costs are volatile and may cause our revenues and expenses to fluctuate significantly.. A portion of our net income is attributable to sales of contract and off-system wholesale electricity and natural gas.  Energy prices are influenced by many factors outside our control, including, among other things, fuel prices, transmission constraints, supply and demand, weather, general economic conditions, and the rules, regulations and actions of system operators in those markets.  Moreover, unlike most other commodities, electricity cannot be stored and therefore must be produced concurrently with its use.  As a result, wholesale power markets may be subject to significant, unpredictable price fluctuations over relatively short periods of time.. Our Mining operations require reliable supplies of replacement parts, explosives, fuel, tires and steel-related products.  If the cost of these increase significantly, or if sources of supplies and mining equipment become unavailable to meet our replacement demands, our productivity and profitability could be lower than our current expectations.. Our revenues, results of operations and financial condition are impacted by customer growth and usage in our service territories and may fluctuate with current economic conditions, emerging technologies or responses to price increases.. Our revenues, results of operations and financial condition are impacted by demand in our service territories.  Customer growth and usage may be impacted by a number of factors, including the voluntary reduction of consumption of electricity and natural gas by our customers in response to increases in prices and demand-side management programs, economic conditions impacting decreases in customers' disposable income and the use of distributed generation resources or other emerging technologies.  Continued technological improvements may make customer and third-party distributed generation and energy storage systems, including fuel cells, micro-turbines, wind turbines, solar cells and batteries, more cost effective and feasible for our customers.  If more customers utilize their own generation, demand for energy from us would decline.  Such developments could affect the price of energy and delivery of energy, require further improvements to our distribution systems to address changing load demands and could make portions of our electric system power supply and transmission and/or distribution facilities obsolete prior to the end of their useful lives.  Each of these factors could materially affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. Our operations rely on storage and transportation assets owned by third parties to satisfy our obligations.. Our Electric Utilities, Gas Utilities and Power Generation segments rely on pipeline companies and other owners of gas storage facilities to deliver natural gas to customers, to supply our natural gas-fired power plants and to hedge commodity costs.  If storage capacity is inadequate or transportation is disrupted, our ability to satisfy our obligations may be hindered.  As a result,. 34. we may be responsible for damages incurred by our counterparties, such as the additional cost of acquiring alternative supply at then-current market rates, or for penalties imposed by state regulatory authorities.. Our utilities are subject to pipeline safety and system integrity laws and regulations that may require significant capital expenditures or significant increases in operating costs.. Compliance with pipeline safety and system integrity laws and regulations, or future changes in these laws and regulations, may result in increased capital, operating and other costs which may not be recoverable in a timely manner from customers in rates.  Failure to comply may result in fines, penalties, or injunctive measures that would not be recoverable from customers in rates and could result in a material impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. Our energy production, transmission and distribution activities, and our storage facilities for our natural gas involve numerous risks that may result in accidents and other catastrophic events that could give rise to additional costs and cause a substantial loss to us.. Inherent in our natural gas and electricity transmission and distribution activities, as well as in our transportation and storage of natural gas and our Mining operations, are a variety of hazards and operating risks, such as leaks, blowouts, fires, releases of hazardous materials, explosions and operational problems.  These events could impact the safety of employees or others and result in injury or loss of human life, and cause significant damage to property or natural resources (including public lands), environmental pollution, impairment of our operations and substantial financial losses to us.  Particularly for our transmission and distribution lines located near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering areas, the damages resulting from any such events could be substantial.  While we maintain liability and property insurance coverage, such policies are subject to certain limits and deductibles.  The occurrence of any of these events not fully covered by our insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.. Threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism, or individuals and/or groups attempting to disrupt our businesses, or the businesses of third parties, may impact our operations in unpredictable ways.. Terrorist acts or other similar events could harm our businesses by limiting their ability to generate, purchase or transmit power and by delaying their development and construction of new generating facilities and capital improvements to existing facilities.  These events, and governmental actions in response, could result in a material decrease in revenues and significant additional costs to repair and insure our assets and could adversely affect our operations by contributing to disruption of supplies and markets for natural gas, oil and other fuels.  They could also impair our ability to raise capital by contributing to financial instability and lower economic activity.. The implementation of security guidelines and measures and maintenance of insurance, to the extent available, addressing such activities could increase costs.  These types of events could materially adversely affect our financial results.  In addition, these types of events could require significant management attention and resources and could adversely affect our reputation among customers and the public.. A cyber attack may disrupt our operations, or lead to a loss or misuse of confidential and proprietary information and create a potential liability.. We use and operate sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure.  In addition, in the ordinary course of business, we collect and retain sensitive information including personal information about our customers and employees.  Cyber attacks targeting our electronic control systems used at our generating facilities and for electric and gas distribution systems, could result in a full or partial disruption of our electric and/or gas operations.  Cyber attacks targeting other key information technology systems could further add to a full or partial disruption of our operations.  Any disruption of these operations could result in a loss of service to customers and a significant decrease in revenues, as well as significant expense to repair system damage and remedy security breaches.  Any theft, loss and/or fraudulent use of customer, shareowner, employee or proprietary data as a result of a cyber attack could subject us to significant litigation, liability and costs, as well as adversely impact our reputation with customers and regulators, among others.. We have instituted security measures and safeguards to protect our operational systems and information technology assets, including certain safeguards required by FERC.  The security measures and safeguards we have implemented may not always be effective due to the evolving nature and sophistication of cyber attacks.  Despite our implementation of security measures and safeguards, all of our information technology systems are vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access, including cyber attacks.  If our information technology systems were to fail or be breached by a cyber attack or a computer. 35. virus and be unable to recover in a timely way, we would be unable to fulfill critical business functions and sensitive confidential and other data could be compromised which could have a material adverse effect not only on our financial results, but on our public reputation as well.. Increased risks of regulatory penalties could negatively impact our results of operations, financial position or liquidity.. Business activities in the energy sector are heavily regulated, primarily by agencies of the federal government.  Agencies that historically sought voluntary compliance, or issued non-monetary sanctions, now employ mandatory civil penalty structures for regulatory violations.  The FERC, NERC, CFTC, EPA, OSHA, SEC and MSHA may impose significant civil and criminal penalties to enforce compliance requirements relative to our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and/or our financial results.. Certain Federal laws, including the Migratory Bird Act and the Endangered Species Act, provide special protection to certain designated species.  These laws and any state equivalents provide for significant civil and criminal penalties for non-permitted activities that result in harm to or harassment of certain protected animals, including damage to their habitats.  If such species are located in an area in which we conduct operations, or if additional species in those areas become subject to protection, our operations and development projects, particularly transmission, generation, wind and pipeline projects, could be restricted or delayed, or we could be required to implement expensive mitigation measures.. Our current or future development and expansion activities may not be successful, which could impair our ability to execute our growth strategy.. Execution of our growth plan is dependent on successful ongoing and future development and expansion activities.  We can provide no assurance that we will be able to complete development projects or expansion activities we undertake or continue to develop attractive opportunities for growth.  Factors that could cause our development and expansion activities to be unsuccessful include:. • Our inability to obtain required governmental permits;. • Our inability to secure adequate utility rates through regulatory proceedings;. • Our inability to obtain financing on acceptable terms, or at all;. • The possibility that one or more credit rating agencies would downgrade our issuer credit rating to below investment grade, thus increasing our cost of doing business;. • Our inability to attract and retain management or other key personnel;. • Our inability to negotiate acceptable construction, fuel supply, power sales or other material agreements;. • Reduced growth in the demand for utility services in the markets we serve;. • Changes in federal, state, local or tribal laws and regulations, particularly those which would make it more difficult or costly to fully develop our coal reserves or our power generation capacity;. • Fuel prices or fuel supply constraints;. • Pipeline capacity and transmission constraints;. • Competition within our industry and with producers of competing energy sources; and. • Changes in tax rates and policies.. 36. Utilities. Regulatory commissions may refuse to approve some or all of the utility rate increases we have requested or may request in the future, or may determine that amounts passed through to customers were not prudently incurred and therefore are not recoverable.. Our regulated Electric Utilities and Gas Utilities are subject to cost-of-service regulation and earnings oversight from federal and state utility commissions.  This regulatory treatment does not provide any assurance as to achievement of desired earnings levels.  Our retail electric and gas utility rates are regulated on a state-by-state basis by the relevant state regulatory authorities based on an analysis of our costs, as reviewed and approved in a regulatory proceeding.  The rates that we are allowed to charge may or may not match our related costs and allowed return on invested capital at any given time.  While rate regulation is premised on the full recovery of prudently incurred costs and a reasonable rate of return on invested capital, there can be no assurance that the state public utility commissions will judge all of our costs, including our direct and allocated borrowing and debt service costs, to have been prudently incurred or that the regulatory process in which rates are determined will always result in rates that produce a full recovery of our costs and the return on invested capital allowed by the applicable state public utility commission.. To some degree, each of our Electric and Gas Utilities are permitted to recover certain costs (such as increased fuel and purchased power costs) without having to file a rate case.  To the extent we are able to pass through such costs to our customers and a state public utility commission subsequently determines that such costs should not have been paid by the customers; we may be required to refund such costs.  Any such costs not recovered through rates, or any such refund, could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.. If market or other conditions adversely affect operations or require us to make changes to our business strategy in any of our utility businesses, we may be forced to record a non-cash goodwill impairment charge.  Any significant impairment of our goodwill related to these utilities would cause a decrease in our assets and a reduction in our net income and shareholders' equity.. We had approximately $1.3 billion of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2017.  A substantial portion of the goodwill is related to the SourceGas Acquisition and the Aquila Transaction.  If we make changes in our business strategy or if market or other conditions adversely affect operations in any of our businesses, we may be forced to record a non-cash impairment charge, which would reduce our reported assets, net income and shareholders' equity.  Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred.  If the testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, we are required to record an impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value of the goodwill and the implied fair value of the goodwill in the period the determination is made.  The testing of goodwill for impairment requires us to make significant estimates about our future performance and cash flows, as well as other assumptions.  These estimates can be affected by numerous factors, including:  future business operating performance, changes in economic conditions and interest rates, regulatory, industry or market conditions, changes in business operations, changes in competition or changes in technologies.  Any changes in key assumptions, or actual performance compared with key assumptions, about our business and its future prospects could affect the fair value of one or more business segments, which may result in an impairment charge.. Municipal governments may seek to limit or deny franchise privileges which could inhibit our ability to secure adequate recovery of our investment in assets subject to condemnation.. Municipal governments within our utility service territories possess the power of condemnation and could establish a municipal utility within a portion of our current service territories by limiting or denying franchise privileges for our operations and exercising powers of condemnation over all or part of our utility assets within municipal boundaries.  Although condemnation is a process that is subject to constitutional protections requiring just and fair compensation, as with any judicial procedure, the outcome is uncertain.  If a municipality sought to pursue this course of action, we cannot assure that we would secure adequate recovery of our investment in assets subject to condemnation.. 37. Mining. If the assumptions underlying our reclamation and mine closure obligations are materially inaccurate, our costs could be significantly greater than anticipated or be incurred sooner than anticipated.. We conduct surface mining operations that are subject to operations, reclamation and closure standards.  We estimate our total reclamation liabilities based on permit requirements, engineering studies and our engineering expertise related to these requirements.  The estimate of ultimate reclamation liability is reviewed periodically by our management and engineers and by government regulators.  The estimated liability can change significantly if actual costs vary from our original assumptions or if government regulations change significantly.  GAAP requires that asset retirement obligations be recorded as a liability based on fair value, which reflects the present value of the estimated future cash flows.  In estimating future cash flows, we consider the estimated current cost of reclamation and apply inflation rates.  The resulting estimated reclamation obligations could change significantly if actual amounts or the timing of these expenses change significantly from our assumptions, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.. Estimates of the quality and quantity of our coal reserves may change materially due to numerous uncertainties inherent in three-dimensional structural modeling, and any inaccuracies in interpretation or modeling could materially affect the estimated quantity and quality of our reserves.. The process of estimating coal reserves is uncertain and requires interpretations and modeling.  Significant inaccuracies in interpretation or modeling could materially affect the quantity and quality of our reserve estimates.  The accuracy of reserve estimates is a function of engineering and geological interpretation, conditions encountered during actual reserve recovery and undetected deposit anomalies.  Variance from the assumptions used and drill hole modeling density could result in additions or deletions from our volume estimates.  In addition, future environmental, economic or geologic changes may occur or become known that require reserve revisions either upward or downward from prior reserve estimates.. FINANCING RISKS. Our credit ratings could be lowered below investment grade in the future.  If this were to occur, it could impact our access to capital, cost of capital and other operating costs.. Our issuer credit rating is Baa2 (Stable outlook) by Moody's; BBB (Stable outlook) by S&P; and BBB+ (Stable outlook) by Fitch.  Reduction of our credit ratings could impair our ability to refinance or repay our existing debt and to complete new financings on reasonable terms, or at all.  A credit rating downgrade, particularly to a sub-investment grade, could also result in counterparties requiring us to post additional collateral under existing or new contracts or trades.  In addition, a ratings downgrade would increase our interest expense under some of our existing debt obligations, including borrowings under our credit facilities.. Derivatives regulations could impede our ability to manage business and financial risks by restricting our use of derivative instruments as hedges against fluctuating commodity prices and interest rates.. Dodd-Frank contains significant derivatives regulations, including a requirement that certain transactions be cleared resulting in a requirement to post cash collateral (commonly referred to as \"margin\") for such transactions.  Dodd-Frank provides for a potential exception from these clearing and cash collateral requirements for commercial end-users such as utilities and it includes a number of defined terms that will be used in determining how this exception applies to particular derivative transactions and the parties to those transactions.. We use natural gas derivative instruments for our hedging activities for our Gas and Electric Utilities' operations.  We may also use interest rate derivative instruments to minimize the impact of interest rate fluctuations.  As a result of Dodd-Frank regulations promulgated by the CFTC, we may be required to post collateral to clearing entities for certain swap transactions we enter into.  In addition our exchange-traded futures contracts are subject to futures margin posting requirements, which could have a significant impact on our business by reducing our ability to execute derivative transactions to reduce commodity price and interest rate uncertainty and to protect cash flows.  Requirements to post collateral may cause significant liquidity issues by reducing our ability to use cash for investment or other corporate purposes, or may require us to increase our level of debt.  In addition, a requirement for our counterparties to post collateral could result in additional costs being passed on to us, thereby decreasing our profitability.. 38. Our hedging activities that are designed to protect against commodity price and financial market risks may cause fluctuations in reported financial results due to accounting requirements associated with such activities.. We use various financial contracts and derivatives, including futures, forwards, options and swaps to manage commodity price and financial market risks.  The timing of the recognition of gains or losses on these economic hedges in accordance with GAAP does not always match up with the gains or losses on the commodities or assets being hedged.  The difference in accounting can result in volatility in reported results, even though the expected profit margin may be essentially unchanged from the dates the transactions were consummated.. Our use of derivative financial instruments could result in material financial losses.. From time to time, we have sought to limit a portion of the potential adverse effects resulting from changes in commodity prices and interest rates by using derivative financial instruments and other hedging mechanisms.  To the extent that we hedge our commodity price and interest rate exposures, we forgo the benefits we would otherwise experience if commodity prices or interest rates were to change in our favor.  In addition, even though they are closely monitored by management, our hedging activities can result in losses.  Such losses could occur under various circumstances, including if a counterparty does not perform its obligations under the hedge arrangement, the hedge is economically imperfect, commodity prices or interest rates move unfavorably related to our physical or financial positions, or hedging policies and procedures are not followed.. Market performance or changes in other assumptions could require us to make significant unplanned contributions to our pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans.  Increasing costs associated with our defined benefit retirement plans may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or liquidity.. As discussed in Note 18 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have one defined benefit pension plan (the pension plan is closed to new employees and frozen for certain employees who did not meet age and service based criteria) and several defined post-retirement healthcare plans and non-qualified retirement plans that cover certain eligible employees.  Assumptions related to future costs, return on investments, interest rates and other actuarial assumptions have a significant impact on our funding requirements and the expense recognized related to these plans.  These estimates and assumptions may change based on actual return on plan assets, changes in interest rates and any changes in governmental regulations.. We have a holding company corporate structure with multiple subsidiaries.  Corporate dividends and debt payments are dependent upon cash distributions to the holding company from the subsidiaries.. As a holding company, our investments in our subsidiaries are our primary assets.  Our operating cash flow and ability to service our indebtedness depend on the operating cash flow of our subsidiaries and the payment of funds by them to us in the form of dividends or advances.  Our subsidiaries are separate legal entities that have no obligation to make any funds available for that purpose, whether by dividends or otherwise.  In addition, each subsidiary's ability to pay dividends to us depends on any applicable contractual or regulatory restrictions that may include requirements to maintain minimum levels of cash, working capital, equity or debt service funds.. There is no assurance as to the amount, if any, of future dividends because they depend on our future earnings, capital requirements and financial condition and are subject to declaration by the Board of Directors.  Our operating subsidiaries have certain restrictions on their ability to transfer funds in the form of dividends or loans to us.  See \"Liquidity and Capital Resources\" within Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding these restrictions and their impact on our liquidity.. We may be unable to obtain financing on reasonable terms needed to refinance debt, fund planned capital expenditures or otherwise execute our operating strategy.. Our ability to execute our operating strategy is highly dependent upon our access to capital.  Historically, we have addressed our liquidity needs (including funds required to make scheduled principal and interest payments, refinance debt and fund working capital and planned capital expenditures) with operating cash flow, borrowings under credit facilities, proceeds of debt and equity offerings, and proceeds from asset sales.  Our ability to access the capital markets and the costs and terms of available financing depend on many factors, including changes in our credit ratings, changes in the federal or state regulatory environment affecting energy companies, volatility in commodity or electricity prices, and general economic and market conditions.. 39. In addition, because we are a holding company and our utility assets are owned by our subsidiaries, if we are unable to adequately access the credit markets, we could be required to take additional measures designed to ensure that our utility subsidiaries are adequately capitalized to provide safe and reliable service.  Possible additional measures would be evaluated in the context of then-prevailing market conditions, prudent financial management and any applicable regulatory requirements.. National and regional economic conditions may cause increased counterparty credit risk, late payments and uncollectible accounts, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and liquidity.. A future recession may lead to an increase in late payments from retail, commercial and industrial utility customers, as well as from our non-utility customers.  If late payments and uncollectible accounts increase, earnings and cash flows from our continuing operations may be reduced.. Our ability to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, as well as the financial condition of insurers.  Our insurance coverage may not provide protection against all significant losses.. Our ability to obtain insurance, as well as the cost of such insurance, could be impacted by developments affecting insurance businesses, international, national, state or local events, as well as the financial condition of insurers.  Insurance coverage may not continue to be available at all, or at rates or on terms similar to those presently available to us.  A loss for which we are not fully insured could materially and adversely affect our financial results.  Our insurance may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which the Company may be subject, including but not limited to environmental hazards, fire-related liability from natural events or inadequate facility maintenance, distribution property losses, cyber-security risks and dangers that exist in the gathering and transportation of gas in pipelines.. Increasing costs associated with our health care plans and other benefits may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or liquidity.. The costs of providing health care benefits to our employees and retirees have increased substantially in recent years.  We believe that our employee benefit costs, including costs related to health care plans for our employees and former employees, will continue to rise.  Significant regulatory developments have, and likely will continue to, require changes to our current employee benefit plans and in our administrative and accounting processes, as well as changes to the cost of our plans, and the  increasing costs and funding requirements associated with our health care plans may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or liquidity.. Our electric and gas utility rates are regulated on a state-by-state basis by the relevant state regulatory authorities based on an analysis of our costs, as reviewed and approved in a regulatory proceeding.  Within our utility rates we have generally recovered the cost of providing employee benefits.  As benefit costs continue to rise, there can be no assurance that the state public utility commissions will allow recovery.. An effective system of internal control may not be maintained, leading to material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management to make an assessment of the design and effectiveness of internal controls.  Our independent registered public accounting firm is required to attest to the effectiveness of these controls.  During their assessment of these controls, management or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify areas of weakness in control design or effectiveness, which may lead to the conclusion that a material weakness in internal control exists.  Any control deficiencies we identify in the future could adversely affect our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis, which could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports or have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business or access sources of liquidity.. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. If we are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, market perception of our business, operating results and stock price could be adversely affected.. 40. ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS. Federal and state laws concerning GHG regulations and air emissions may materially increase our generation and production costs and could render some of our generating units uneconomical to operate and maintain.. We own and operate regulated and non-regulated fossil-fuel generating plants in South Dakota, Wyoming and Colorado.  Developments under federal and state laws and regulations governing air emissions from fossil-fuel generating plants may result in more stringent emission limitations, which could have a material impact on our costs of operations.  Various pending or final state and EPA regulations that will impact our facilities are also discussed in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the section \"Environmental Matters.\". Due to uncertainty as to the final outcome of federal climate change legislation, legal challenges, state clean power plan developments or regulatory changes under the Clean Air Act, we cannot definitively estimate the effect of GHG legislation or regulation on our results of operations, cash flows or financial position.. New or more stringent regulations or other energy efficiency requirements could require us to incur significant additional costs relating to, among other things, the installation of additional emission control equipment, the acceleration of capital expenditures, the purchase of additional emissions allowances or offsets, the acquisition or development of additional energy supply from renewable resources, the closure or reduction of load of coal-fired power generation facilities and potential increased load of our combined cycle natural gas-fired generation units.  To the extent our regulated fossil-fuel generating plants are included in rate base we will attempt to recover costs associated with complying with emission standards or other requirements.  We will also attempt to recover the emission compliance costs of our non-regulated fossil-fuel generating plants from utility and other purchasers of the power generated by those non-regulated power plants.  Any unrecovered costs could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition.  In addition, future changes in environmental regulations governing air emissions could render some of our power generating units more expensive or uneconomical to operate and maintain.. The costs to achieve or maintain compliance with existing or future governmental laws, regulations or requirements, and any failure to do so, could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or liquidity.. Our business segments are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid waste and hazardous waste.  These laws and regulations may result in increased capital, operating and other costs.  These laws and regulations generally require the business segments to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals.  Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may require significant expenditures, including expenditures for cleanup costs and damages arising from contaminated properties.  Failure to comply with environmental regulations may result in the imposition of fines, penalties and injunctive measures affecting operating assets.. The business segments may not be successful in recovering capital and operating costs incurred to comply with new environmental regulations through existing regulatory rate structures and contracts with customers.  More stringent environmental laws or regulations could result in additional costs of operation for existing facilities or impede the development of new facilities.  Although it is not expected that the costs to comply with current environmental regulations will have a material adverse effect on the business segments' financial position, results of operations or cash flows, future environmental compliance costs could have a significant negative impact... The characteristics of coal may make it difficult for coal users to comply with various environmental standards related to coal combustion or utilization and the use of alternative energy sources for power generation as mandated by states could reduce coal consumption.. Future regulations may require further reductions in emissions of mercury, hazardous pollutants, SO2, NOx, volatile organic compounds, particulate matter and GHG, which are released into the air when coal is burned.  These requirements could require the installation of costly emission control technology or the implementation of other measures.  Reductions in mercury emissions required by EPA's MATS rule, will likely require some power plants to install new equipment, at substantial cost, or discourage the use of certain coals containing higher levels of mercury.. Coal competes with other energy sources, such as natural gas, wind, solar and hydropower.  The EPA was directed to repeal, revise and replace the CPP rule.  At this time, it is not known what effect this will have on coal as a domestic energy source, and could have a significant impact on our mining operations.. 41. Existing or proposed legislation focusing on emissions enacted by the United States or individual states could make coal a less attractive fuel alternative for our customers and could impose a tax or fee on the producer of the coal.  If our customers decrease the volume of coal they purchase from us or switch to alternative fuels as a result of existing or future environmental regulations aimed at reducing emissions, our operations and financial results could be adversely impacted.. Oil and Gas (Discontinued Operations). If the risks involved in our Oil and Gas operations are not appropriately managed or mitigated through final sale dates, or if the divestiture of this business segment does not occur as currently anticipated, we could incur costs and/or additional write-downs of the carrying value of our natural gas and oil properties.. As of February 23, 2018, we have either closed transactions or signed contracts to sell more than 90 percent of our oil and gas properties.  We expect to conclude the sale of all of our remaining oil and gas assets by mid-year 2018.  Until the sale transactions are final, we continue to own and operate these assets and are exposed to the risks associated with those operations.  In addition, while we have signed agreements for the significant majority of the properties, until the sales are closed, there is a risk that the transactions do not occur as planned.  Additional operating costs, additional write-down of carrying value or the non-closure of sale agreements as currently signed could result in an adverse impact to our financial results."
