[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. An investment in our securities involves certain risks relating to our structure and investment objectives. The risks set forth below are not the only risks we face, and we face other risks which we have not yet identified, which we do not currently deem material or which are not yet predictable. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, our net asset value and the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.. Certain risks in the current environment. Capital markets may experience periods of disruption and instability. Such market conditions may materially and adversely affect debt and equity capital markets in the United States and abroad, which may have a negative impact on our business and operations.. From time to time, capital markets may experience periods of disruption and instability, which may be evidenced by a lack of liquidity in debt capital markets, write-offs in the financial services sector, re-pricing of credit risk and failure of certain major financial institutions. An example of such disruption and instability occurred between 2008 and 2009. During that period, despite actions of the U.S. federal government and foreign governments, such disruption and instability contributed to worsening general economic conditions that materially and adversely impacted the broader financial and credit markets and reduced the availability of debt and equity capital for the market as a whole and financial services firms in particular. While capital markets have improved in recent years, these conditions could deteriorate again and global financial markets could experience significant volatility. During such market disruptions, we may have difficulty raising debt or equity capital especially as a result of regulatory constraints. There can be no assurance that adverse market conditions will not repeat themselves or worsen in the future. Equity capital may be difficult to raise because, subject to some limited exceptions, as a BDC, we are generally not able to issue additional shares of common stock at a price less than net asset value without first obtaining approval for such issuance from our stockholders and our independent directors. At our annual meeting of stockholders held on May 25, 2017, subject to the condition that the maximum number of shares salable below net asset value pursuant to this authority in any particular offering that could result in such dilution is limited to 25% of our then outstanding common stock immediately prior to each such offering, our stockholders approved our ability to sell or otherwise issue shares of our common stock at a price below its then current net asset value per share for a twelve month period expiring on the anniversary of the date of stockholder approval. It should be noted that, theoretically, we may offer up to 25% of our then outstanding common stock each day. In addition, our ability to. 22. incur indebtedness (including by issuing preferred stock) is limited by applicable regulations such that our asset coverage, as calculated in accordance with the 1940 Act, must equal at least 200% immediately after each time we incur indebtedness. The debt capital that will be available to us in the future, if at all, may be at a higher cost and on less favorable terms and conditions than our current leverage. Any inability to raise capital could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Market conditions may in the future make it difficult to extend the maturity of or refinance our existing indebtedness and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business. The re-appearance of market conditions similar to those experienced from 2008 through 2009 for any substantial length of time could make it difficult to extend the maturity of or refinance our existing indebtedness or obtain new indebtedness with similar terms and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business. The debt capital that will be available to us in the future, if at all, may be at a higher cost and on less favorable terms and conditions than what we currently experience. Further, if we are unable to raise or refinance debt, then our equity investors may not benefit from the potential for increased returns on equity resulting from leverage and we may be limited in our ability to make new commitments or to fund existing commitments to our portfolio companies.. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if required. As a result, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have recorded our investments. In addition, significant changes in the capital markets, including the disruption and volatility, have had, and may in the future have, a negative effect on the valuations of our investments and on the potential for liquidity events involving our investments. An inability to raise capital, and any required sale of our investments for liquidity purposes, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Price declines and illiquidity in the corporate debt markets have adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect, the fair value of our portfolio investments, reducing our net asset value through increased net unrealized depreciation.. As a BDC, we are required to carry our investments at market value or, if no market value is ascertainable, at fair value as determined in good faith by or under the direction of our board of directors. Decreases in the market values or fair values of our investments are recorded as unrealized depreciation, which reduces our net asset value. Depending on market conditions, we could incur substantial realized losses and may suffer additional unrealized losses in future periods, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The downgrade of the U.S. credit rating, the economic crisis in Europe, turbulence in Chinese markets and global commodity markets or other macro-economic events could negatively impact our business, financial condition and earnings.. Although U.S. lawmakers passed legislation to raise the federal debt ceiling and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services affirmed its 'AA+' long-term sovereign credit rating on the United States and revised the outlook on the long-term rating from negative to stable in June of 2013, U.S. debt ceiling and budget deficit concerns together with signs of deteriorating sovereign debt conditions in Europe continue to present the possibility of a credit-rating downgrade, economic slowdowns, or a recession for the United States. The impact of any further downgrades to the U.S. government's sovereign credit rating or downgraded sovereign credit ratings of European countries or the Russian Federation, or their perceived creditworthiness could adversely affect the U.S. and global financial markets and economic conditions. These developments, along with any further European sovereign debt issues, could cause interest rates and borrowing costs to rise, which may negatively impact our ability to access the debt markets on favorable terms. Continued adverse economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In 2010, a financial crisis emerged in Europe, triggered by high budget deficits and rising direct and contingent sovereign debt in Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, which created concerns about the ability of these nations to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations. While the financial stability of many of such countries has improved significantly, risks resulting from any future debt crisis in Europe or any similar crisis could have a detrimental impact on the global economic recovery, sovereign and non-sovereign debt in these countries and the financial condition of European financial institutions. In July and August 2015, Greece reached agreements with. 23. its international creditors for bailouts that provide aid in exchange for austerity terms that had previously been rejected by Greek voters. Market and economic disruptions have affected, and may in the future affect, consumer confidence levels and spending, personal bankruptcy rates, levels of incurrence and default on consumer debt and home prices, among other factors. We cannot assure you that market disruptions in Europe, including the increased cost of funding for certain governments and financial institutions, will not impact the global economy, and we cannot assure you that assistance packages will be available, or if available, be sufficient to stabilize countries and markets in Europe or elsewhere affected by a financial crisis. To the extent uncertainty regarding any economic recovery in Europe negatively impacts consumer confidence and consumer credit factors, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected.. In addition, stock prices in China experienced a significant decline in the second quarter of 2015, resulting primarily from continued sell-off of shares trading in Chinese markets. In August 2015, Chinese authorities sharply devalued China's currency. Chinese market volatility has been followed by volatility in stock markets around the world, including in the United States, and increased volatility in commodity markets, such as reductions in prices of crude oil. Continued volatility in Chinese markets may have a contagion effect across the financial markets. These market and economic disruptions affected, and may in the future affect, the U.S. capital markets, which could adversely affect our business.. Additionally, Russian intervention in Ukraine beginning in 2014 significantly increased regional geopolitical tensions. The situation remains fluid with potential for further escalation of geopolitical tensions, increased severity of sanctions against Russian interests, and possible Russian countermeasures. Further economic sanctions could destabilize the economic environment and result in increased volatility. Should the economic recovery in the United States be adversely impacted by increased volatility in the global financial markets caused by developments as a result of the Russian sanctions, further turbulence in Chinese markets and global commodity markets or for any other reason, loan and asset growth and liquidity conditions at U.S. financial institutions, including us, may deteriorate.. In October 2014, the Federal Reserve announced that it was concluding its bond-buying program, or quantitative easing, which was designed to stimulate the economy and expand the Federal Reserve's holdings of long-term securities, suggesting that key economic indicators, such as the unemployment rate, had showed signs of improvement since the inception of the program. In December 2016, the Federal Reserve raised the target range for the federal funds rate, which was only the second such interest rate hike in nearly a decade, and during 2017, the Federal Reserve raised the federal funds rate three more times, and may continue to raise the Federal Funds Rate over time. To the extent the Federal Reserve continues to raise rates, and without quantitative easing by the Federal Reserve, there is a risk that the debt markets may experience increased volatility and that the liquidity of certain of our investments may be reduced. These developments, along with the United States government's credit and deficit concerns, the European sovereign debt crisis and the economic slowdown in China could cause interest rates to be volatile, which may negatively impact our ability to access the debt markets on favorable terms.. As of December 31, 2017, the Trump administration has called for significant changes to U.S. trade, healthcare, immigration, foreign and government regulatory policy.  In this regard, there is significant uncertainty with respect to legislation, regulation and government policy at the federal level, as well as the state and local levels.  Recent events have created a climate of heightened uncertainty and introduced new and difficult-to-quantify macroeconomic and political risks with potentially far-reaching implications.  There has been a corresponding meaningful increase in the uncertainty surrounding interest rates, inflation, foreign exchange rates, trade volumes and fiscal monetary policy.  To the extent the U.S. Congress or Trump administration implements changes to U.S. policy, those changes may impact, among other things, the U.S. and global economy, international trade and relations, unemployment, immigration, corporate taxes, healthcare, the U.S. regulatory environment, inflation and other areas.  Some particular areas identified as subject to potential change, amendment or repeal include the Dodd-Frank Wall street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\"), including the Volcker Rule and various swaps and derivatives regulations, credit risk retention requirements and the authorities of the Federal Reserve, the Financial Stability Oversight Council and the SEC.  Although we cannot predict the impact, if any, of these changes to our business, they could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.  Until we know what policy changes are made and how those changes impact our business and the. 24. business of our competitors over the long term, we will not know if, overall, we will benefit from them or be negatively affected by them.. On February 3, 2017, President Trump signed Executive Order 13772 announcing the new Administration's policy to regulate the U.S. financial system in a manner consistent with certain \"Core Principles,\" including regulation that is efficient, effective and appropriately tailored.  The Executive Order directed the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the head of the member agencies of the Financial Stability Oversight Council, to report to the President on the extent to which existing laws, regulations and other government policies promote the Core Principles and to identify government policies that inhibit financial regulation consistent with them.  On June 12, 2017, the U.S. Department of the Treasury published the first of four reports in response to the Executive Order on the depository system covering banks and other savings institutions.  Subsequent reports are expected to address: capital markets; the asset management and insurance industries, and retail and institutional investment products and vehicles; and non-bank financial institutions, financial technology and financial innovation.  The report included recommendations to reduce fragmentation, overlap, and duplication in the U.S. regulatory structure; to decrease the burden of statutory stress testing and ease liquidity and leverage standards for domestic banks; to restructure the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau; to reduce compliance burdens under the Volcker Rule; to reconsider the implications of implementing the revised standards for credit risk under Basel III; and to require uniform, consistent rigorous methods to analyze costs and benefits, increase transparency and make available for public comment cost-benefit analyses for all \"economically significant\" proposed regulations.. On June 8, 2017, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Financial Choice Act, which includes legislation intended to repeal or replace substantial portions of the Dodd-Frank Act.  Among other things, the proposed law would repeal the Volcker Rule limiting certain proprietary investment and trading activities by banks, eliminate the authority of regulators to designate asset managers and other large non-bank institutions as \"systematically important financial institutions,\" and repeal the Department of Labor (DOL) \"fiduciary rule\" governing standards for dealing with retirement plans until the SEC issues standards for similar dealings by broker-dealers and limiting the substance of any subsequent DOL rule to the SEC standards.  The bill must be approved by the Senate, where we believe it is unlikely to pass in its current form.  At this time it is unclear what impact the Administration's policies in response to the Executive Order, the Financial Choice Act or other pending legislation and developments will have on regulations that affect our and our competitors' and our portfolio companies' businesses.. Congress has recently enacted a tax reform bill that, among other things, significantly changes the taxation of business entities, the deductibility of certain items of loss and expense (including limits on the deductibility of interest expense), and the timing in which certain income items are recognized.  We cannot predict the impact, if any, of these changes to our business or the business of the portfolio companies in which we invest.  Until we can evaluate how these changes impact our business and the business of our portfolio companies over the long term, we will not know if, overall, we will benefit from them or be negatively impacted by them.. Uncertainty regarding the United Kingdom's departure from the European Union could negatively impact our business, financial condition and earnings.. As a consequence of the United Kingdom's vote to withdraw from the European Union (the \"EU\"), the government of the United Kingdom gave notice of its withdrawal from the EU (\"Brexit\").  As a result of this decision, the financial markets experienced high levels of volatility and it is likely that, in the near term, Brexit will continue to bring about higher levels of uncertainty and volatility.  During this period of uncertainty, the negative impact on not only the United Kingdom and European economies, but the broader global economy, could be significant, potentially resulting in increased market and currency volatility (including volatility of the value of the British pound sterling relative to the United States dollar and other currencies and volatility in global currency markets generally), and illiquidity and lower economic growth for companies that rely significantly on Europe for their business activities and revenues.  It is possible that certain economic activity will be curtailed until some signs of clarity begin to emerge, including negotiations around the terms for the United Kingdom's exit out of the EU.  Additional risks associated with the outcome of Brexit include macroeconomic risk to the United Kingdom and European economies, impetus for further disintegration of the EU and related political stresses (including those related to sentiment against cross border capital movements and activities of investors like us), prejudice to financial. 25. services businesses that are conducting business in the EU and which are based in the United Kingdom, legal uncertainty regarding achievement of compliance with applicable financial and commercial laws and regulations in view of the expected steps to be taken pursuant to or in contemplation of Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union and negotiations undertaken under Article 218 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and the unavailability of timely information as to expected legal, tax and other regimes.  Any further exits from the EU, or the possibility of such exits, would likely cause additional market disruption globally and introduce new legal and regulatory uncertainties.. Rising interest rates may adversely affect the value of our portfolio investments which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our debt investments may be based on floating rates, such as London Interbank Offer Rate (\"LIBOR\"), EURIBOR, the Federal Funds Rate or the Prime Rate. General interest rate fluctuations may have a substantial negative impact on our investments, the value of our common stock and our rate of return on invested capital. A reduction in the interest rates on new investments relative to interest rates on current investments could also have an adverse impact on our net interest income. An increase in interest rates could decrease the value of any investments we hold which earn fixed interest rates, including subordinated loans, senior and junior secured and unsecured debt securities and loans and high yield bonds, and also could increase our interest expense, thereby decreasing our net income. Also, an increase in interest rates available to investors could make investment in our common stock less attractive if we are not able to increase our dividend rate, which could reduce the value of our common stock.. Because we have borrowed money, and may issue preferred stock to finance investments, our net investment income depends, in part, upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds or pay distributions on preferred stock and the rate that our investments yield. As a result, we can offer no assurance that a significant change in market interest rates will not have a material adverse effect on our net investment income. In periods of rising interest rates, our cost of funds would increase except to the extent we have issued fixed rate debt or preferred stock, which could reduce our net investment income.. You should also be aware that a change in the general level of interest rates can be expected to lead to a change in the interest rate we receive on many of our debt investments. Accordingly, a change in the interest rate could make it easier for us to meet or exceed the performance threshold and may result in a substantial increase in the amount of incentive compensation payable to our Advisor with respect to the portion of the incentive compensation based on income.. Changes relating to the LIBOR calculation process and the phase-out of LIBOR may adversely affect the value of the LIBOR-indexed, floating-rate debt securities in our portfolio.. In July 2017, the head of the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority announced the desire to phase out the use of LIBOR by the end of 2021.  There is currently no definitive information regarding the future utilization of LIBOR or of any particular replacement rate.  As such, the potential effect on any such event on our cost of capital and net investment income cannot yet be determined.. Actions by the British Bankers' Association (\"BBA\"), regulators or law enforcement agencies as a result of these or future events, may result in changes to the manner in which LIBOR is determined. Potential changes, uncertainty related to such potential changes and the phase-out of LIBOR may adversely affect the market for LIBOR-based securities, including our portfolio of LIBOR-indexed, floating-rate debt securities. In addition, any further changes or reforms to the determination or supervision of LIBOR may result in a sudden or prolonged increase or decrease in reported LIBOR, which could have an adverse impact on the market for LIBOR-based securities or the value of our portfolio of LIBOR-indexed, floating-rate debt securities.. Risks related to our business. We may not replicate the Company's historical performance or the historical performance of other entities managed or supported by the Advisor.. We may not be able to replicate the Company's historical performance or the historical performance of the Advisor's investments, and our investment returns may be substantially lower than the returns achieved by the. 26. Company in the past. We can offer no assurance that the Advisor will be able to continue to implement our investment objective with the same degree of success as it has had in the past.. Our business model depends upon the development and maintenance of strong referral relationships with other asset managers and investment banking firms.. We are substantially dependent on our informal relationships, which we use to help identify and gain access to investment opportunities. If we fail to maintain our relationships with key firms, or if we fail to establish strong referral relationships with other firms or other sources of investment opportunities, we will not be able to grow our portfolio of equity investments and achieve our investment objective. In addition, persons with whom we have informal relationships are not obligated to inform us of investment opportunities, and therefore such relationships may not lead to the origination of equity or other investments. Any loss or diminishment of such relationships could effectively reduce our ability to identify attractive portfolio companies that meet our investment criteria, either for direct equity investments or for investments through private secondary market transactions or other secondary transactions.. The Advisor's liability is limited under the investment management agreement, and we are required to indemnify the Advisor against certain liabilities, which may lead the Advisor to act in a riskier manner on our behalf than it would when acting for its own account.. The Advisor has not assumed any responsibility to us other than to render the services described in the investment management agreement, and it will not be responsible for any action of our board of directors in declining to follow the Advisor's advice or recommendations. Pursuant to the investment management agreement, the Advisor and its members and their respective officers, managers, partners, agents, employees, controlling persons and members and any other person or entity affiliated with it will not be liable to us for their acts under the investment management agreement, absent willful misfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence or reckless disregard in the performance of their duties. We have agreed to indemnify, defend and protect the Advisor and its members and their respective officers, managers, partners, agents, employees, controlling persons and members and any other person or entity affiliated with it with respect to all damages, liabilities, costs and expenses resulting from acts of the Advisor not arising out of willful misfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence or reckless disregard in the performance of their duties under the investment and management agreement. These protections may lead the Advisor to act in a riskier manner when acting on our behalf than it would when acting for its own account.. We may suffer credit losses.. Investment in middle-market companies is highly speculative and involves a high degree of risk of credit loss, and therefore our securities may not be suitable for someone with a low tolerance for risk. These risks are likely to increase during an economic recession.. Our use of borrowed funds, including under the Leverage Program, to make investments exposes us to risks typically associated with leverage.. The Operating Company borrows money, both directly and indirectly through TCPC Funding and the SBIC. As a result:. • our common stock is exposed to incremental risk of loss and a decrease in the value of our investments would have a greater negative impact on the value of our common stock than if we did not use leverage;. • adverse changes in interest rates could reduce or eliminate the incremental income we make with the proceeds of leverage;. • we, and indirectly our common stockholders, bear the entire cost of issuing and paying interest or dividends on any borrowed funds issued by us or the Operating Company;. • our ability to pay dividends on our common stock will be restricted if our asset coverage ratio is not at least 200% and any amounts used to service indebtedness would not be available for such dividends; and. 27. • our ability to amend the Operating Company organizational documents or investment management agreements may be restricted if such amendment could have a material adverse impact on lenders under our Leverage Program.. The use of leverage creates increased risk of loss and is considered a speculative investment technique. The use of leverage magnifies the potential gains and losses from an investment and increases the risk of loss of capital. To the extent that income derived by us from investments purchased with borrowed funds is greater than the cost of borrowing, our net income will be greater than if borrowing had not been used. Conversely, if the income from investments purchased from these sources is not sufficient to cover the cost of the leverage, our net investment income will be less than if leverage had not been used, and the amount available for ultimate distribution to the holders of common stock will be reduced. The extent to which the gains and losses associated with leveraged investing are increased will generally depend on the degree of leverage employed. We may, under some circumstances, be required to dispose of investments under unfavorable market conditions in order to maintain our leverage, thus causing us to recognize a loss that might not otherwise have occurred. In the event of a sale of investments upon default under our borrowing arrangements, secured creditors will be contractually entitled to direct such sales and may be expected to do so in their interest, rather than in the interests of the holders of common stock. Holders of common stock will incur losses if the proceeds from a sale in any of the foregoing circumstances are insufficient, after payment in full of amounts due and payable on leverage, including administrative expenses, to repay such holders investments in our common stock. As a result, you could experience a total loss of your investment. Any decrease in our revenue would cause our net income to decline more than it would have had we not borrowed funds and could negatively affect our ability to make distributions on our common stock. The ability to service any debt that we have or may have outstanding depends largely on our financial performance and is subject to prevailing economic conditions and competitive pressures. There is no limitation on the percentage of portfolio investments that can be pledged to secure borrowings. The amount of leverage that we employ at any particular time will depend on our Advisor's and our board of director's assessments of market and other factors at the time of any proposed borrowing.. In addition to regulatory restrictions that restrict our ability to raise capital, the Leverage Program contains various covenants which, if not complied with, could accelerate repayment under the SVCP Revolver and TCPC Funding Facility, thereby materially and adversely affecting our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. Under the Leverage Program, we must comply with certain financial and operational covenants. These covenants include:. • restrictions on the level of indebtedness that we are permitted to incur in relation to the value of our assets;. • restrictions on our ability to make distributions and other restricted payments under certain circumstances;. • restrictions on extraordinary events, such as mergers, consolidation and sales of assets;. • restrictions on our ability to incur liens and incur indebtedness; and. • maintenance of a minimum level of stockholders' equity.. In addition, by limiting the circumstances in which borrowings may occur under the SVCP Revolver and TCPC Funding Facility, the credit agreements related to such facilities (the \"Credit Agreements\") in effect provide for various asset coverage, credit quality and diversification limitations on our investments. Such limitations may cause us to be unable to make or retain certain potentially attractive investments or to be forced to sell investments at an inappropriate time and consequently impair our profitability or increase losses or result in adverse tax consequences. As of February 26, 2018, we were in compliance with these covenants. However our continued compliance with these covenants depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control.. Accordingly, there are no assurances that we will continue to comply with the covenants in the Credit Agreements. Failure to comply with these covenants would result in a default under the Credit Agreements which, if we were unable to obtain a waiver from the respective lenders thereunder, could result in an acceleration of repayments under the Credit Agreements.. 28. The SVCP Revolver also has certain \"key man\" provisions. For example, it is an event of default if either Howard M. Levkowitz or Rajneesh Vig cease to be actively involved in the management of the Advisor and is not replaced with someone with comparable skills within 180 days. Further, if any two of the individuals cease to be actively involved in management of the Advisor, the administrative agent under the Operating Company's Credit Agreement may veto a proposed replacement for one of such individuals and may veto any of the Operating Company's portfolio transactions that are in excess of 15% of its total assets until a replacement has been appointed to fill one of such positions.. Additionally, if signed into law, the Financial Choice Act would decrease the asset coverage requirement for BDCs to 150 percent from 200 percent under certain circumstances.  Different BDCs may be positioned differently with respect to such changes and/or pursue different strategies should these regulations become effective.. The SVCP Revolver matures in July 2018 and the TCPC Funding Facility matures in April 2021, subject to extension by the lenders at our request. Any inability to renew, extend or replace the SVCP Revolver and/or TCPC Funding Facility could adversely impact our liquidity and ability to find new investments or maintain distributions to our stockholders.. The SVCP Revolver matures July 31, 2018, subject to extension by the lenders at our request. Advances under the SVCP Revolver generally bear interest at LIBOR plus 2.50% per annum, subject to certain limitations. The TCPC Funding Facility matures on April 26, 2021, subject to an extension by the lender at our request. Advances under the TCPC Funding Facility generally bear interest based on LIBOR plus either 2.25% or 2.50% per annum, subject to certain limitations. We do not currently know whether we will renew, extend or replace the SVCP Revolver and TCPC Funding Facility upon their maturities or whether we will be able to do so on terms that are as favorable as the SVCP Revolver and TCPC Funding Facility. In addition, we will be required to liquidate assets to repay amounts due under the SVCP Revolver and TCPC Funding Facility if we do not renew, extend or replace the SVCP Revolver and TCPC Funding Facility prior to their respective maturities.. Upon the termination of the SVCP Revolver and TCPC Funding Facility, there can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into a replacement facility on terms that are as favorable to us, if at all. Our ability to replace the SVCP Revolver and TCPC Funding Facility may be constrained by then-current economic conditions affecting the credit markets. In the event that we are not able to replace the SVCP Revolver and TCPC Funding Facility at the time of their maturity, this could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and ability to fund new investments, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and our ability to qualify as a RIC.. The creditors under the SVCP Revolver and TCPC Funding Facility have a first claim on all of the Company's assets included in the collateral for the respective facilities.. Lenders have fixed dollar claims on our assets that are superior to the claims of our common stockholders. Substantially all of our current assets have been pledged as collateral under the SVCP Revolver and TCPC Funding Facility. If an event of default occurs under either of the SVCP Revolver and TCPC Funding Facility, the respective lenders would be permitted to accelerate amounts due under the respective facilities and liquidate our assets to pay off amounts owed under the respective facilities and limitations would be imposed on us with respect to the purchase or sale of investments. Such limitations may cause us to be unable to make or retain certain potentially attractive investments or to be forced to sell investments at an inappropriate time and consequently impair our profitability or increase our losses or result in adverse tax consequences.. In the event of the dissolution of the Operating Company or otherwise, if the proceeds of the Operating Company's assets (after payment in full of obligations to any such debtors) are insufficient to repay capital invested in us by the holders of the common stock, no other assets will be available for the payment of any deficiency. None of our board of directors, the Advisor, the General Partner or any of their respective affiliates, have any liability for the repayment of capital contributions made to the Company by the holders of common stock. Holders of common stock could experience a total loss of their investment in the Company.. Lenders under the SVCP Revolver may have a veto power over the Company's investment policies.. 29. If a default has occurred under the SVCP Revolver, the lenders under the SVCP Revolver may veto changes in investment policies. The SVCP Revolver also has certain limitations on unusual types of investments such as commodities, real estate and speculative derivatives, which are not part of the Company's investment strategy or policies in any event.. The SBIC may be unable to make distributions to us that will enable us to meet or maintain RIC status, which could result in the imposition of an entity-level tax.. In order for us to continue to qualify for RIC tax treatment and to minimize corporate-level taxes, we will be required to distribute substantially all of our net ordinary income and net capital gain income, including income from certain of our subsidiaries, which includes the income from the SBIC. We will be partially dependent on the SBIC for cash distributions to enable us to meet the RIC distribution requirements. The SBIC may be limited by the Small Business Investment Act of 1958, and SBA regulations governing SBICs, from making certain distributions to us that may be necessary to enable us to maintain our status as a RIC. We may have to request a waiver of the SBA's restrictions for the SBIC to make certain distributions to maintain our eligibility for RIC status. We cannot assure you that the SBA will grant such a waiver and if the SBIC is unable to obtain a waiver, compliance with the SBA regulations may result in loss of RIC tax treatment and a consequent imposition of an entity-level tax on us.. The SBIC is subject to SBA regulations, and any failure to comply with SBA regulations could have an adverse effect on our operations.. On April 22, 2014, the SBIC received an SBIC license from the SBA. The SBIC license allows the SBIC to obtain leverage by issuing SBA-guaranteed debentures, subject to the issuance of a capital commitment by the SBA and other customary procedures. SBA-guaranteed debentures are non-recourse, interest only debentures with interest payable semi-annually and have a ten year maturity. The principal amount of SBA-guaranteed debentures is not required to be paid prior to maturity but may be prepaid at any time without penalty. The interest rate of SBA-guaranteed debentures is fixed on a semi-annual basis at a market-driven spread over U.S. Treasury Notes with 10-year maturities. The SBA, as a creditor, will have a superior claim to the SBIC's assets over our stockholders in the event we liquidate the SBIC or the SBA exercises its remedies under the SBA-guaranteed debentures issued by the SBIC upon an event of default.. Under current SBA regulations, a licensed SBIC can provide capital to those entities that have a tangible net worth not exceeding $19.5 million and an average annual net income after Federal income taxes not exceeding $6.5 million for the two most recent fiscal years. In addition, a licensed SBIC must devote 25% of its investment activity to those entities that have a tangible net worth not exceeding $6.0 million and an average annual net income after Federal income taxes not exceeding $2.0 million for the two most recent fiscal years. The SBA regulations also provide alternative size standard criteria to determine eligibility, which depend on the industry in which the business is engaged and are based on factors such as the number of employees and gross sales. The SBA regulations permit licensed SBICs to make long term loans to small businesses, invest in the equity securities of such businesses and provide them with consulting and advisory services. The SBA also places certain limitations on the financing terms of investments by SBICs in portfolio companies and prohibits SBICs from providing funds for certain purposes or to businesses in a few prohibited industries. Compliance with SBA requirements may cause the SBIC to forego attractive investment opportunities that are not permitted under SBA regulations.. Further, the SBA regulations require that a licensed SBIC be periodically examined and audited by the SBA to determine its compliance with the relevant SBA regulations. The SBA prohibits, without prior SBA approval, a \"change of control\" of an SBIC or any transfers of the capital stock of a licensed SBIC. If the SBIC fails to comply with applicable SBA regulations, the SBA could, depending on the severity of the violation, limit or prohibit its use of debentures, declare outstanding debentures immediately due and payable, and/or limit it from making new investments. In addition, the SBA can revoke or suspend a license for willful or repeated violation of, or willful or repeated failure to observe, any provision of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 or any rule or regulation promulgated thereunder. The Advisor, as the SBIC's investment adviser, does not have any previous experience managing an SBIC. Its limited experience in complying with SBA regulations may hinder its ability to take advantage of the SBIC's access to SBA-guaranteed debentures. Any failure to comply with SBA regulations could have an adverse effect on our operations.. 30. SBA regulations limit the outstanding dollar amount of SBA-guaranteed debentures that may be issued by an SBIC or group of SBICs under common control.. The SBA regulations currently limit the dollar amount of SBA-guaranteed debentures that can be issued by any one SBIC to $150.0 million or to a group of SBICs under common control to $350.0 million.. An SBIC may not borrow an amount in excess of two times (and in certain cases, up to three times) its regulatory capital. As of December 31, 2017, the SBIC had $83.0 million in SBA-guaranteed debentures outstanding. If we reach the maximum dollar amount of SBA-guaranteed debentures permitted, and if we require additional capital, our cost of capital may increase, and there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms.. Moreover, the current status of the SBIC as an SBIC does not automatically assure that the SBIC will continue to receive SBA-guaranteed debenture funding. Receipt of SBA leverage funding is dependent upon the SBIC continuing to be in compliance with SBA regulations and policies and available SBA funding. The amount of SBA leverage funding available to SBICs is dependent upon annual Congressional authorizations and in the future may be subject to annual Congressional appropriations. There can be no assurance that there will be sufficient debenture funding available at the times desired by the SBIC.. The debentures guaranteed by the SBA have a maturity of ten years and require semi-annual payments of interest. The SBIC will need to generate sufficient cash flow to make required interest payments on the debentures. If the SBIC is unable to meet their financial obligations under the debentures, the SBA, as a creditor, will have a superior claim to the SBIC's assets over our stockholders in the event we liquidate the SBIC or the SBA exercises its remedies under such debentures as the result of a default by us.. If we incur additional leverage, it will increase the risk of investing in shares of our common stock.. The Company has indebtedness pursuant to the Leverage Program and expects, in the future, to borrow additional amounts under the SVCP Revolver and TCPC Funding Facility and may increase the size of the SVCP Revolver and TCPC Funding Facility or enter into other borrowing arrangements.. Illustration. The following table illustrates the effect of leverage on returns from an investment in our common stock assuming various annual returns, net of expenses. The calculations in the table below are hypothetical and actual returns may be higher or lower than those appearing below. The calculation is based on our level of leverage at December 31, 2017, which represented borrowings equal to 45.0% of our total assets. On such date, we also had $1,629.4 million in total assets; $1,514.5 million in total investments; an average cost of funds of 4.13%; $733.8 million aggregate principal amount of debt outstanding; and $870.7 million of total net assets. In order to compute the \"Corresponding Return to Common Stockholders,\" the \"Assumed Return on Portfolio (Net of Expenses Other than Interest)\" is multiplied by the total value of our investment portfolio at December 31, 2017 to obtain an assumed return to us. From this amount, interest expense multiplied the combined rate of interest of 4.13% by the $733.8 million of debt is subtracted to determine the return available to stockholders. The return available to stockholders is then divided by the total value of our net assets at December 31, 2017 to determine the \"Corresponding Return to Common Stockholders.\" Actual interest payments may vary.. Assumed Return on Portfolio (Net of Expenses Other than Interest) -10 %   -5 %   0 %   5 %   10 % Corresponding Return to Common Stockholders -21 %   -12 %   -3 %   5 %   14 %. The assumed portfolio return in the table is based on SEC regulations and is not a prediction of, and does not represent, our projected or actual performance. The table also assumes that we will maintain a constant level of leverage. The amount of leverage that we use will vary from time to time.. The lack of liquidity in substantially all of our investments may adversely affect our business.. Our investments generally are made and will continue to be made in private companies. Substantially all of these securities will be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will be otherwise less liquid than publicly. 31. traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we had previously recorded our investments. Further, we may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a portfolio company to the extent that we or an affiliated manager has material non-public information regarding such portfolio company.. A substantial portion of our portfolio investments may be recorded at fair value as determined using a consistently applied valuation process in accordance with our documented valuation policy that has been reviewed and approved by our board of directors, who also approve in good faith the valuation of such securities and, as a result, there may be uncertainty regarding the value of our portfolio investments.. The debt and equity investments that we make for which market quotations are not readily available will be valued at fair value as determined using a consistently applied valuation process in accordance with our documented valuation policy that has been reviewed and approved by our board of directors, who also approve in good faith the valuation of such securities. Due to the inherent uncertainty of determining the fair value of investments that do not have a readily available market value, the fair value of our investments may differ significantly from the values that would have been used had a readily available market value existed for such investments, and the differences could be material. Our net asset value could be adversely affected if determinations regarding the fair value of these investments were materially higher than the values ultimately realized upon the disposal of such investments.. We are exposed to risks associated with changes in interest rates.. General interest rate fluctuations may have a substantial negative impact on our investments, the value of our common stock and our rate of return on invested capital. A reduction in the interest rates on new investments relative to interest rates on current investments could also have an adverse impact on our net investment income. An increase in interest rates could decrease the value of any investments we hold that earn fixed interest rates, including subordinated loans, senior and junior secured and unsecured debt securities and loans and high-yield bonds, and also could increase our interest expense, thereby decreasing our net income. Also, an increase in interest rates available to investors could make investment in our common stock less attractive if we are not able to increase our dividend rate, which could reduce the value of our common stock.. The Advisor may face conflicts in allocating investment opportunities between us and certain other entities that could adversely impact our investment returns.. The Advisor and its affiliates, employees and associates currently do and in the future may manage other funds and accounts, including for other funds and accounts in which certain holders of our common stock have investments, which we refer to as Other Advisor Accounts. Other Advisor Accounts invest in assets that are also eligible for purchase by us. Our investment policies, fee arrangements and other circumstances may vary from those of Other Advisor Accounts. Accordingly, conflicts may arise regarding the allocation of investments or opportunities among us and Other Advisor Accounts. In general, the Advisor and its affiliates will allocate investment opportunities pro rata among us and Other Advisor Accounts (assuming the investment satisfies the objectives of each) based on the amount of committed capital each then has available. The allocation of certain investment opportunities in private placements is subject to independent director approval pursuant to the terms of the co-investment exemptive order applicable to us and described below. In certain cases, investment opportunities may be made other than on a pro rata basis. For example, we may desire to retain an asset at the same time that one or more Other Advisor Accounts desire to sell it or we may not have additional capital to invest at a time Other Advisor Accounts do. When our investment allocations are made on a basis other than pro rata our investment performance may be less favorable when compared to the investment performance of Other Advisor Accounts with respect to those investments. The Advisor and its affiliates intend to allocate investment opportunities to us and Other Advisor Accounts in a manner that they believe in their judgment and based upon their fiduciary duties to be appropriate given the investment objectives, size of transaction, investable assets, alternative investments potentially available, prior allocations, liquidity, maturity, expected holding period, diversification, lender covenants and other limitations of ours and the Other Advisor Accounts. See \"- Risks related to our operations as a BDC - While our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates is restricted under the 1940 Act, we have received an exemptive order from the SEC permitting certain affiliated investments subject to certain conditions. As a result, the Advisor may face conflicts of interests and investments made pursuant to the exemptive order conditions could in certain. 32. circumstances adversely affect the price paid or received by us or the availability or size of the position purchased or sold by us.\". There may be situations in which Other Advisor Accounts and the Company might invest in different securities issued by the same portfolio company. It is possible that if the portfolio company's financial performance and condition deteriorates such that one or both investments are or could be impaired, the Advisor might face a conflict of interest given the difference in seniority of the respective investments. In such situations, the Advisor would review the conflict on a case-by-case basis and implement procedures consistent with its fiduciary duty to enable it to act fairly to the Other Advisor Accounts and the Company in the circumstances. Any steps by the Advisor will take into consideration the interests of each of the affected clients, the circumstances giving rise to the conflict, the procedural efficacy of various methods of addressing the conflict and applicable legal requirements.. Moreover, the Advisor's investment professionals, its Investment Committee (as defined below), its senior management and employees serve or may serve as officers, directors or principals of entities that operate in the same or a related line of business. Accordingly, these individuals may have obligations to investors in those entities or funds, the fulfillment of which might not be in our best interests or the best interests of our stockholders. In addition, certain of the personnel employed by the Advisor or focused on our business may change in ways that are detrimental to our business.. We have limited operating history as a BDC and, if the Advisor is unable to manage our investments effectively, we may be unable to achieve our investment objective.. Our ability to achieve our investment objective will depend on our ability to manage our business, which will depend, in turn, on the ability of the Advisor to identify, invest in and monitor companies that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing this result will largely be a function of the Advisor's investment process. Although the Advisor has managed closed-end funds with similar restrictions, the 1940 Act imposes numerous constraints on the operations of BDCs. The Advisor's limited experience in operating under these constraints may hinder the Advisor's ability to help us take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and to achieve our investment objectives. For example, BDCs are prohibited from making any nonqualifying investment unless at least 70% of their total assets are primarily in qualifying investments, which are primarily securities of private or thinly-traded U.S. companies (excluding certain financial companies), cash, cash equivalents, U.S. Government securities and other high quality debt investments that mature in one year or less. The Advisor has limited experience investing under these constraints. In addition, the General Partner has limited experience administering a BDC.. The Advisor and its partners, officers, directors, members, managers, employees, affiliates and agents may be subject to certain potential or actual conflicts of interest in connection with the activities of, and investments by, us.. The Advisor and its affiliates may spend substantial time on other business activities, including investment management and advisory activities for entities with the same or overlapping investment objectives, investing for their own account, financial advisory services (including services for entities in which we invest), and acting as directors, officers, creditor committee members or in similar capacities. Subject to the requirements of the 1940 Act and other applicable laws, the Advisor and its affiliates and associates intend to engage in such activities and may receive compensation from third parties for their services. Subject to the same requirements, such compensation may be payable by entities in which we invest in connection with actual or contemplated investments, and the Advisor may receive fees and other compensation in connection with structuring investments which they will share.. The Advisor's management fee is based on a percentage of our total assets (other than cash or cash equivalents) and the Advisor may have conflicts of interest in connection with decisions that could affect our total assets, such as decisions as to whether to incur additional debt to increase management fees paid and to recoup the Advisor's payment of half of the sales load in connection with our initial public offering in April 2012.. Our incentive compensation may induce our Advisor to make certain investments, including speculative investments.. 33. The incentive compensation payable by us to the Advisor may create an incentive for the Advisor to make investments on our behalf that are risky or more speculative than would be the case in the absence of such compensation arrangement. The way in which the incentive compensation is determined may encourage the Advisor to increase the use of leverage or take additional risk to increase the return on our investments. Under certain circumstances, the use of leverage may increase the likelihood of default, which would disfavor the holders of our common stock, or of securities convertible into our common stock or warrants representing rights to purchase our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock. A rise in the general level of interest rates can be expected to lead to higher interest rates applicable to certain of our debt investments and may accordingly result in a substantial increase in the amount of incentive compensation payable to the Advisor with respect to our cumulative investment income. Although the incentive compensation is subject to a total return limitation, the Advisor may have some ability to accelerate the realization of gains to obtain incentive compensation earlier than it otherwise would when it may be in our best interests to not yet realize gains. Our directors monitor our use of leverage and the Advisor's management of our investment program in the best interests of our common stockholders.. We may invest, to the extent permitted by law, in the securities and instruments of other investment companies, including private funds, and, to the extent we so invest, we will bear our ratable share of any such investment company's expenses, including management and performance fees. We will also remain obligated to pay management and incentive compensation to the Advisor with respect to the assets invested in the securities and instruments of other investment companies. With respect to each of these investments, each of our common stockholders will bear his or her share of our management and incentive compensation as well as indirectly bear the management and performance fees and other expenses of any investment companies in which we invest.. We may be obligated to pay the Advisor incentive compensation payments in excess of the amounts we would have paid if such compensation was subject to clawback arrangements.. The Advisor is entitled to incentive compensation for each fiscal quarter after January 1, 2013 in an amount equal to a percentage of our ordinary income (before deducting incentive compensation) since that date and, separately, a percentage of our realized capital gains (net of realized capital losses and unrealized depreciation) since that date, in each case subject to a cumulative total return requirement. If we pay incentive compensation and thereafter experience additional realized capital losses or unrealized capital depreciation such that we would no longer have been required to provide incentive compensation, we will not be able to recover any portion of the incentive compensation previously paid or distributed because our incentive compensation arrangements do not contain any clawback provisions. As a result, the incentive compensation could exceed 20% of our cumulative total return, depending on the timing of unrealized appreciation, net unrealized depreciation and net realized capital losses. For example, part of the incentive compensation payable or distributable by us that relates to our ordinary income is computed on income that may include interest that has been accrued but not yet received in cash. If a portfolio company defaults on a loan, it is possible that accrued interest previously used in the calculation of the incentive compensation will become uncollectible. Similarly, the income component is measured against a total return limitation that includes unrealized gains. Such gains may not be realized or may be realized at a lower amount. Consequently, we may have paid incentive compensation on income in circumstances where we otherwise would not have done so and with respect to which we do not have a clawback right against the Advisor.. The General Partner may have certain interests that conflict with the interests of the board of directors in the governance of the Operating Company.. The General Partner, an affiliate of the Advisor, is responsible for the day-to-day operations of the Operating Company subject to the general supervision of the board of directors including various significant matters such as the issuance of additional classes of securities of the Operating Company and the determination of the timing and amounts of distributions payable by the Operating Company. The decisions of the General Partner with respect to these and other matters may be subject to various conflicts of interest arising out of its relationship with us and its affiliates. The General Partner could be confronted with decisions where it will, directly or indirectly, have an economic incentive to place its interests or the interests of its affiliates above ours.. 34. We are dependent upon senior management personnel of the Advisor for our future success, and if the Advisor is unable to retain qualified personnel or if the Advisor loses any member of its senior management team, our ability to achieve our investment objective could be significantly harmed.. The success of the Company is highly dependent on the financial and managerial expertise of the Advisor. The loss of one or more of the voting members of the Investment Committee could have a material adverse effect on the performance of the Company. Although the Advisor and the voting members of the Investment Committee devote a significant amount of their respective efforts to the Company, they actively manage investments for other clients and are not required to (and will not) devote all of their time to the Company's affairs.. The Advisor or its affiliates may, from time to time, possess material non-public information, limiting our investment discretion.. The Advisor's investment professionals, Investment Committee or their respective affiliates may serve as directors of, or in a similar capacity with, companies in which we invest. In the event that material non-public information is obtained with respect to such companies, or we became subject to trading restrictions under the internal trading policies of those companies or as a result of applicable law or regulations, we could be prohibited for a period of time from purchasing or selling the securities of such companies, and this prohibition may have an adverse effect on us and, consequently, your interests as a stockholder.. The Advisor can resign on 60 days' notice, and we may not be able to find a suitable replacement within that time, resulting in a disruption in our operations that could adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations.. The Advisor has the right, under our investment management agreement, to resign at any time upon not more than 60 days' written notice, whether we have found a replacement or not. If the Advisor resigns, we may not be able to find a new investment advisor or hire internal management with similar expertise and ability to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms within 60 days, or at all. If we are unable to do so quickly, our operations are likely to experience a disruption, our financial condition, business and results of operations as well as our ability to pay distributions are likely to be adversely affected and the market price of our shares may decline. In addition, the coordination of our internal management and investment activities is likely to suffer if we are unable to identify and reach an agreement with a single institution or group of executives having the expertise possessed by the Advisor and its affiliates. Even if we are able to retain comparable management, whether internal or external, the integration of such management and their lack of familiarity with our investment objective may result in additional costs and time delays that may adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations.. We may in the future determine to fund a portion of our investments by issuing preferred stock, which would magnify the potential gains or losses and the risks of investing in us in the same manner as our borrowings.. The issuance of shares of preferred stock with dividend or conversion rights, liquidation preferences or other economic terms favorable to the holders of preferred stock could adversely affect the market price for our common stock by making an investment in the common stock less attractive. In addition, preferred stock, which is another form of leverage, has the same risks to our common stockholders as borrowings because the dividends on any preferred stock we issue must be cumulative. Payment of dividends and repayment of the liquidation preference of preferred stock must take preference over any dividends or other payments to our common stockholders, and holders of preferred stock are not subject to any of our expenses or losses and are not entitled to participate in any income or appreciation in excess of their stated preference (other than convertible preferred stock that converts into common stock). Lastly, under the 1940 Act, preferred stock constitutes a \"senior security\" for purposes of the 200% asset coverage test.. We may experience fluctuations in our periodic operating results.. We could experience fluctuations in our periodic operating results due to a number of factors, including the interest rates payable on the debt securities we acquire, the default rate on such securities, the level of our expenses (including the interest rates payable on our borrowings), the dividend rates payable on preferred stock we issue, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we. 35. encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods.. If we fail to maintain our status as a business development company, our business and operating flexibility could be significantly reduced.. We qualify as business development companies under the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act imposes numerous constraints on the operations of business development companies. For example, BDCs are prohibited from making any unqualifying investments unless at least 70% of their total assets are invested in qualifying investments which are primarily securities of private or thinly-traded U.S. companies, cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and other high quality debt investments that mature in one year or less. Failure to comply with the requirements imposed on business development companies by the 1940 Act could cause the SEC to bring an enforcement action against us and/or expose us to claims of private litigants. In addition, any such failure could cause an event of default under the Leverage Program, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial conditions or results of operations.. Because we intend to distribute substantially all of our income to our stockholders to maintain our status as a RIC, we will continue to need additional capital to finance growth. If additional funds are unavailable or not available on favorable terms, our ability to grow will be impaired.. In order for the Holding Company to qualify for the tax benefits available to RICs and to minimize payment of excise taxes, we intend to distribute to our stockholders substantially all of our annual taxable income, except that we may retain certain net capital gains for reinvestment in common interests of the Operating Company, and treat such amounts as deemed distributions to our stockholders. If we elect to treat any amounts as deemed distributions, we must pay income taxes at the corporate rate on such deemed distributions on behalf of our stockholders and our stockholders will receive a tax credit for such amounts and an increase in basis. A stockholder that is not subject to U.S. federal income tax or otherwise is not required to file a U.S. federal income tax return would be required to file a U.S. federal income tax return on the appropriate form in order to claim a refund for the taxes we paid. As a result of these requirements, we will likely need to raise capital from other sources to grow our business. Unfavorable economic or capital market conditions may increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or could result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. An inability to successfully access the capital markets could limit our ability to grow our business and fully execute our business strategy and could decrease our earnings, if any.. As a BDC, we are not able to incur senior securities unless after giving effect thereto we meet a coverage ratio of total assets, less liabilities and indebtedness not represented by senior securities, to total senior securities, which includes all of our borrowings, of at least 200%. This means that for every $100 of net assets, we may raise $100 from senior securities, such as borrowings or issuing preferred stock. These requirements limit the amount that we may borrow. On July 13, 2015, we obtained exemptive relief from the SEC to permit us to exclude the debt of TCPC SBIC LP guaranteed by the SBA from our 200% asset coverage test under the 1940 Act. The exemptive relief provides us with increased flexibility under the 200% asset coverage test by permitting the SBIC to borrow up to $150.0 million more than it would otherwise be able to absent the receipt of this exemptive relief.. Because we will continue to need capital to grow our investment portfolio, these limitations may prevent us from incurring debt and require us to raise additional equity at a time when it may be disadvantageous to do so. While we expect we will be able to borrow and to issue additional debt securities and expect that we will be able to issue additional equity securities, we cannot assure you that debt and equity financing will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. In addition, as a business development company, we generally will not be permitted to issue equity securities priced below net asset value without stockholder approval. If additional funds are not available to us, we could be forced to curtail or cease new investment activities and our net asset value or common stock price could decline.. The highly competitive market in which we operate may limit our investment opportunities.. A number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we make. We compete with other BDCs, public and private funds, commercial and investment banks, commercial financing companies, and, to the. 36. extent they provide an alternative form of financing, private equity funds. Additionally, because competition for investment opportunities generally has increased among alternative investment vehicles, such as hedge funds, those entities now invest in areas in which they have not traditionally invested, including making investments in middle-market private companies. As a result of these new entrants, competition for investment opportunities intensified over the past several years and may intensify further in the future. Some of our existing and potential competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions and valuation requirements that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a BDC and that the Code imposes on us as a RIC. We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of this existing and potentially increasing competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objective.. We do not seek to compete primarily based on the interest rates we offer, and we believe that some of our competitors make loans with interest rates that are comparable to or lower than the rates we offer.. We may lose investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors' pricing, terms and structure. If we match our competitors' pricing, terms and structure, we may experience decreased net interest income and increased risk of credit loss. As a result of operating in such a competitive environment, we may make investments that are on better terms to our portfolio companies than what we may have originally anticipated, which may impact our return on these investments.. Our board of directors may change our operating policies and strategies without prior notice or stockholder approval.. Our board of directors has the authority to modify or waive our operating policies and strategies without prior notice and without stockholder approval. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies and strategies would have on our business, operating results or value of our stock. Nevertheless, the effects could adversely affect our business and impact our ability to make distributions and cause you to lose all or part of your investment.. Risks related to our investments. Our investments may be risky, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. We invest primarily in middle-market companies primarily through leveraged loans.. Risks Associated with middle-market companies. Investing in private middle-market companies involves a number of significant risks, including:. • these companies may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral;. • they typically have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors' actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns;. • they are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on the portfolio company and, in turn, on us;. • they generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, and may. 37. require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position;. • our executive officers, directors and the Advisor may, in the ordinary course of business, be named as defendants in litigation arising from our investments in the portfolio companies;. • changes in laws and regulations, as well as their interpretations, may adversely affect their respective businesses, financial structures or prospects; and. • they may have difficulty accessing the capital markets to meet future capital needs.. Little public information exists about private middle-market companies, and we expect to rely on the Advisor's investment professionals to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential returns from investing in these companies. These companies and their financial information are not subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other rules that govern disclosures and financial controls of public companies. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investment.. Lower Credit Quality Obligations. Most of our debt investments are likely to be in lower grade obligations. The lower grade investments in which we invest may be rated below investment grade by one or more nationally-recognized statistical rating agencies at the time of investment or may be unrated but determined by the Advisor to be of comparable quality. Debt securities rated below investment grade are commonly referred to as \"junk bonds\" and are considered speculative with respect to the issuer's capacity to pay interest and repay principal. The debt that we invest in typically is not rated prior to our investment by any rating agency, but we believe that if such investments were rated, they would be below investment grade (rated lower than \"Baa3\" by Moody's Investors Service, lower than \"BBB-\" by Fitch Ratings or lower than \"BBB-\" by Standard & Poor's). We may invest without limit in debt of any rating, as well as debt that has not been rated by any nationally recognized statistical rating organization.. Investment in lower grade investments involves a substantial risk of loss. Lower grade securities or comparable unrated securities are considered predominantly speculative with respect to the issuer's ability to pay interest and principal and are susceptible to default or decline in market value due to adverse economic and business developments. The market values for lower grade debt tend to be very volatile and are less liquid than investment grade securities. For these reasons, your investment in our company is subject to the following specific risks:. • increased price sensitivity to a deteriorating economic environment;. • greater risk of loss due to default or declining credit quality;. • adverse company specific events are more likely to render the issuer unable to make interest and/or principal payments; and. • if a negative perception of the lower grade debt market develops, the price and liquidity of lower grade securities may be depressed. This negative perception could last for a significant period of time.. Adverse changes in economic conditions are more likely to lead to a weakened capacity of a lower grade issuer to make principal payments and interest payments than an investment grade issuer. The principal amount of lower grade securities outstanding has proliferated in the past decade as an increasing number of issuers have used lower grade securities for corporate financing. An economic downturn could severely affect the ability of highly leveraged issuers to service their debt obligations or to repay their obligations upon maturity. Similarly, downturns in profitability in specific industries could adversely affect the ability of lower grade issuers in that industry to meet their obligations. The market values of lower grade debt tend to reflect individual developments of the issuer to a greater extent than do higher quality investments, which react primarily to fluctuations in the general level of interest rates. Factors having an adverse impact on the market value of lower grade debt may have an adverse effect on our net asset value and the market value of our common stock. In addition, we may incur additional expenses to the extent we are required to seek recovery upon a default in payment of principal of or interest on our portfolio holdings. In certain circumstances, we may be required to foreclose on an issuer's assets and take possession of its. 38. property or operations. In such circumstances, we would incur additional costs in disposing of such assets and potential liabilities from operating any business acquired.. The secondary market for lower grade debt is unlikely to be as liquid as the secondary market for more highly rated debt, a factor which may have an adverse effect on our ability to dispose of a particular instrument. There are fewer dealers in the market for lower grade securities than investment grade obligations. The prices quoted by different dealers may vary significantly and the spread between the bid and asked price is generally larger than for higher quality instruments. Under adverse market or economic conditions, the secondary market for lower grade debt could contract further, independent of any specific adverse changes in the condition of a particular issuer, and these instruments may become highly illiquid. As a result, we could find it more difficult to sell these instruments or may be able to sell the securities only at prices lower than if such instruments were widely traded. Prices realized upon the sale of such lower rated or unrated securities, under these circumstances, may be less than the prices used in calculating our net asset value.. Since investors generally perceive that there are greater risks associated with lower grade debt of the type in which we may invest a portion of our assets, the yields and prices of such debt may tend to fluctuate more than those for higher rated instruments. In the lower quality segments of the fixed income markets, changes in perceptions of issuers' creditworthiness tend to occur more frequently and in a more pronounced manner than do changes in higher quality segments of the income securities market, resulting in greater yield and price volatility.. Distressed Debt Securities Risk. At times, distressed debt obligations may not produce income and may require us to bear certain extraordinary expenses (including legal, accounting, valuation and transaction expenses) in order to protect and recover our investment. Therefore, our ability to achieve current income for our stockholders may be diminished. We also will be subject to significant uncertainty as to when and in what manner and for what value the distressed debt we invest in will eventually be satisfied (e.g., through a liquidation of the obligor's assets, an exchange offer or plan of reorganization involving the distressed debt securities or a payment of some amount in satisfaction of the obligation). In addition, even if an exchange offer is made or plan of reorganization is adopted with respect to distressed debt we hold, there can be no assurance that the securities or other assets received by us in connection with such exchange offer or plan of reorganization will not have a lower value or income potential than may have been anticipated when the investment was made. Moreover, any securities received by us upon completion of an exchange offer or plan of reorganization may be restricted as to resale. As a result of our participation in negotiations with respect to any exchange offer or plan of reorganization with respect to an issuer of distressed debt, we may be restricted from disposing of such securities.. Payment-in-kind Interest Risk. Our loans may contain a payment-in-kind, or PIK, interest provision. PIK investments carry additional risk as holders of these types of securities receive no cash until the cash payment date unless a portion of such securities is sold. If the issuer defaults the Company may obtain no return on its investment. The PIK interest, computed at the contractual rate specified in each loan agreement, is added to the principal balance of the loan and recorded as interest income. To avoid the imposition of corporate-level tax on us, this non-cash source of income needs to be paid out to stockholders in cash distributions or, in the event that we determine to do so and in certain cases, in shares of our common stock, even though we have not yet collected and may never collect the cash relating to the PIK interest. As a result, we may have to distribute a taxable stock dividend to account for PIK interest even though we have not yet collected the cash.. Preferred Stock Risk. To the extent we invest in preferred securities, there are special risks, including:. Deferral. Preferred securities may include provisions that permit the issuer, at its discretion, to defer distributions for a stated period without any adverse consequences to the issuer. If we own a preferred security that is deferring its distributions, we may be required to report income for tax purposes although we have not yet received such income.. Subordination. Preferred securities are subordinated to bonds and other debt instruments in a company's capital structure in terms of priority to corporate income and liquidation payments, and therefore will be subject to greater credit risk than more senior debt instruments.. 39. Liquidity. Preferred securities may be substantially less liquid than many other securities, such as common stocks or U.S. Government securities.. Limited Voting Rights. Generally, preferred security holders have no voting rights with respect to the issuing company unless preferred dividends have been in arrears for a specified number of periods, at which time the preferred security holders may elect a number of directors to the issuer's board. Generally, once all the arrearages have been paid, the preferred security holders no longer have voting rights.. Equity Security Risk. We may have exposure to equity securities. Although equity securities have historically generated higher average total returns than fixed-income securities over the long term, equity securities also have experienced significantly more volatility in those returns. The equity securities that we acquire may fail to appreciate and may decline in value or become worthless.. Hedging Transactions. We may employ hedging techniques to minimize currency exchange rate risks or interest rate risks, but we can offer no assurance that such strategies will be effective. If we engage in hedging transactions, we may expose ourselves to risks associated with such transactions. Hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. Moreover, it may not be possible to hedge against an exchange rate or interest rate fluctuation that is so generally anticipated that we are not able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price. Additionally, engaging in certain hedging transactions could result in adverse tax consequences, e.g. giving rise to income that does not qualify for the 90% annual gross income requirement applicable to RICs.. Because our investments are generally not in publicly traded securities, there will be uncertainty regarding the value of our investments, which could adversely affect the determination of our net asset value.. Our portfolio investments will generally not be in publicly traded securities. As a result, although we expect that some of our equity investments may trade on private secondary marketplaces, the fair value of our direct investments in portfolio companies will often not be readily determinable. Under the 1940 Act, investments for which there are no readily available market quotations, including securities that while listed on a private securities exchange have not actively traded, will be valued at fair value as determined using a consistently applied valuation process in accordance with our documented valuation policy that has been reviewed and approved by our board of directors, who also approve in good faith the valuation of such securities. In connection with that approval, the board of directors utilizes the services of an independent valuation firm, which prepares valuation reports on a quarterly basis for most of our portfolio investments that are not publicly traded or for which we do not have readily available market quotations, including securities that while listed on a private securities exchange, have not actively traded. However, the board of directors retains ultimate authority as to the appropriate valuation of each such investment. The types of factors that the board of directors takes into account in approving fair value with respect to such non-traded investments includes, as relevant and, to the extent available, the portfolio company's earnings, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparison to valuations of publicly traded companies, comparisons to recent sales of comparable companies, the discounted value of the cash flows of the portfolio company and other relevant factors. This information may not be available because it is difficult to obtain financial and other information with respect to private companies, and even where we are able to obtain such information, there can be no assurance that it is complete or accurate. Because such valuations are inherently uncertain and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would be assessed if a readily available market for these securities existed. Due to this uncertainty, our fair value determinations with respect to any non-traded investments we hold may cause our net asset value on a given date to materially understate or overstate the value that we may ultimately realize on one or more of our investments. As a result, investors purchasing our securities based on an overstated net asset value may pay a higher price than the value of our investments might warrant. Conversely, investors selling securities based on a net asset value that understates the value of our investments may receive a lower price for their securities than the value of our investments might warrant.. Economic recessions or downturns could impair our portfolio companies and harm our operating results.. Many of our portfolio companies may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to repay our loans during these periods. Therefore, our non-performing assets may increase and the value of our. 40. portfolio may decrease during these periods as we are required to record the values of our investments. Adverse economic conditions also may decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans and the value of our equity investments. Economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could prevent us from increasing investments and harm our operating results.. A portfolio company's failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize our portfolio company's ability to meet its obligations under the debt securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms with a defaulting portfolio company. In addition, if one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, even though we or one of our affiliates may have structured our interest in such portfolio company as senior debt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provided managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might re-characterize our debt holding as equity and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to claims of other creditors.. We may not be in a position to exercise control over our portfolio companies or to prevent decisions by management of our portfolio companies that could decrease the value of our investments.. We do not generally intend to take controlling equity positions in our portfolio companies. To the extent that we do not hold a controlling equity interest in a portfolio company, we are subject to the risk that such portfolio company may make business decisions with which we disagree, and the stockholders and management of such portfolio company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that are adverse to our interests. Due to the lack of liquidity for the debt and equity investments that we typically hold in our portfolio companies, we may not be able to dispose of our investments in the event we disagree with the actions of a portfolio company, and may therefore suffer a decrease in the value of our investments.. In addition, we may not be in a position to control any portfolio company by investing in its debt securities. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company in which we invest may make business decisions with which we disagree and the management of such company, as representatives of the holders of their common equity, may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests as debt investors.. Our portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies.. The portfolio companies we invest in usually have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the debt securities in which we invest. By their terms, such debt instruments may provide that the holders are entitled to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments in respect of the debt securities in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying such senior creditors, such portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt securities in which we invest, we would have to share any distributions on an equal and ratable basis with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company.. Additionally, certain loans that we make to portfolio companies may be secured on a second priority basis by the same collateral securing senior secured debt of such companies. The first priority liens on the collateral will secure the portfolio company's obligations under any outstanding senior debt and may secure certain other future debt that may be permitted to be incurred by the portfolio company under the agreements governing the loans. The holders of obligations secured by the first priority liens on the collateral will generally control the liquidation of and be entitled to receive proceeds from any realization of the collateral to repay their obligations in full before us. In addition, the value of the collateral in the event of liquidation will depend on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. There can be no assurance that the proceeds, if any, from the sale or sales of all of the collateral would be sufficient to satisfy the loan obligations secured by the second priority liens after. 41. payment in full of all obligations secured by the first priority liens on the collateral. If such proceeds are not sufficient to repay amounts outstanding under the loan obligations secured by the second priority liens, then we, to the extent not repaid from the proceeds of the sale of the collateral, will only have an unsecured claim against the portfolio company's remaining assets, if any.. The rights we may have with respect to the collateral securing the loans we make to our portfolio companies with senior debt outstanding may also be limited pursuant to the terms of one or more intercreditor agreements, including agreements governing \"first out\" and \"last out\" structures, that we enter into with the holders of senior debt. Under such an intercreditor agreement, at any time that obligations that have the benefit of the first priority liens are outstanding, any of the following actions that may be taken in respect of the collateral will be in good faith under the direction of the holders of the obligations secured by the first priority liens: the ability to cause the commencement of enforcement proceedings against the collateral; the ability to control the conduct of such proceedings; the approval of amendments to collateral documents; releases of liens on the collateral; and waivers of past defaults under collateral documents. We may not have the ability to control or direct such actions, even if our rights are adversely affected.. When we are a debt or minority equity investor in a portfolio company, we are often not in a position to exert influence on the entity, and other equity holders and management of the company may make decisions that could decrease the value of our portfolio holdings.. When we make debt or minority equity investments, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company may make business decisions with which we disagree and the other equity holders and management of such company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests. As a result, a portfolio company may make decisions that could decrease the value of our investment.. We may also make unsecured loans to portfolio companies, meaning that such loans will not benefit from any interest in collateral of such companies. Liens on such portfolio companies' collateral, if any, will secure the portfolio company's obligations under its outstanding secured debt and may secure certain future debt that is permitted to be incurred by the portfolio company under its secured loan agreements. The holders of obligations secured by such liens will generally control the liquidation of, and be entitled to receive proceeds from, any realization of such collateral to repay their obligations in full before us. In addition, the value of such collateral in the event of liquidation will depend on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. There can be no assurance that the proceeds, if any, from sales of such collateral would be sufficient to satisfy our unsecured loan obligations after payment in full of all secured loan obligations. If such proceeds were not sufficient to repay the outstanding secured loan obligations, then our unsecured claims would rank equally with the unpaid portion of such secured creditors' claims against the portfolio company's remaining assets, if any.. There may be circumstances in which our debt investments could be subordinated to claims of other creditors or we could be subject to lender liability claims.. If one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, even though we may have structured our interest as senior debt, depending on the facts and circumstances, a bankruptcy court might recharacterize our debt holding as an equity investment and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors. In addition, lenders can be subject to lender liability claims for actions taken by them where they become too involved in the borrower's business or exercise control over the borrower. For example, we could become subject to a lender's liability claim, if, among other things, we actually render significant managerial assistance.. Our portfolio companies may be highly leveraged.. Some of our portfolio companies may be highly leveraged, which may have adverse consequences to these companies and to us as an investor. These companies may be subject to restrictive financial and operating covenants and the leverage may impair these companies' ability to finance their future operations and capital needs. As a result, these companies' flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to take advantage of business opportunities may be limited. Further, a leveraged company's income and net assets will tend to increase or decrease at a greater rate than if borrowed money were not used.. 42. Our portfolio companies may prepay loans, which prepayment may reduce stated yields in the future if capital returned cannot be invested in transactions with equal or greater expected yields.. Certain of the loans we make are prepayable at any time, some of them of them at no premium to par. We cannot predict when such loans may be prepaid. Whether a loan is prepaid will depend both on the continued positive performance of the portfolio company and the existence of favorable financing market conditions that permit such company to replace existing financing with less expensive capital. As market conditions change frequently, it is unknown when, and if, this may be possible for each portfolio company. In the case of some of these loans, having the loan prepaid early may reduce the achievable yield for the Company in the future below the current yield disclosed for our portfolio if the capital returned cannot be invested in transactions with equal or greater expected yields.. Our failure to make follow-on investments in our portfolio companies could impair the value of our portfolio.. Following an initial investment in a portfolio company, we may make additional investments in that portfolio company as \"follow-on\" investments in order to: (1) increase or maintain in whole or in part our equity ownership percentage; (2) exercise warrants, options or convertible securities that were acquired in the original or subsequent financing; or (3) attempt to preserve or enhance the value of our initial investment.. We may elect not to make follow-on investments or otherwise lack sufficient funds to make those investments. Our failure to make follow-on investments may, in some circumstances, jeopardize the continued viability of a portfolio company and our initial investment, or may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful operation. Even if we have sufficient capital to make a desired follow-on investment, we may elect not to make such follow-on investment because we may not want to increase our concentration of risk, because we prefer other opportunities, because we are inhibited by compliance with BDC requirements or because we desire to maintain our tax status.. Our investments in foreign securities may involve significant risks in addition to the risks inherent in U.S. investments.. Our investment strategy contemplates that a portion of our investments may be in securities of foreign companies in order to provide diversification or to complement our U.S. investments, although we are required generally to invest at least 70% of our assets in companies organized and having their principal place of business within the U.S. and its possessions. Accordingly, we may invest on an opportunistic basis in certain non-U.S. companies, including those located in emerging markets, that otherwise meet our investment criteria. In regards to the regulatory requirements for business development companies, some of these investments may not qualify as investments in \"eligible portfolio companies,\" and thus may not be considered \"qualifying assets.\" \"Eligible portfolio companies\" generally include U.S. companies that are not investment companies and that do not have securities listed on a national exchange. If at any time less than 70% of our gross assets are comprised of qualifying assets, including as a result of an increase in the value of any non-qualifying assets or decrease in the value of any qualifying assets, we would generally not be permitted to acquire any additional non-qualifying assets until such time as 70% of our then current gross assets were comprised of qualifying assets. We would not be required, however, to dispose of any non-qualifying assets in such circumstances. In addition, investing in foreign companies, and particularly those in emerging markets, may expose us to additional risks not typically associated with investing in U.S. companies. These risks include changes in exchange control regulations, political and social instability, expropriation, imposition of foreign taxes, less liquid markets and less available information than is generally the case in the United States, higher transaction costs, less government supervision of exchanges, brokers and issuers, less developed bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards and greater price volatility. These risks may be more pronounced for portfolio companies located or operating primarily in emerging markets, whose economies, markets and legal systems may be less developed. Further, we may have difficulty enforcing our rights as equity holders in foreign jurisdictions. In addition, to the extent we invest in non-U.S. companies, we may face greater exposure to foreign economic developments.. Although it is anticipated that most of our investments will be denominated in U.S. dollars, our investments that are denominated in a foreign currency will be subject to the risk that the value of a particular currency may change in relation to the U.S. dollar. Among the factors that may affect currency values are trade balances, the level of short-. 43. term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for investment and capital appreciation and political developments. We may employ hedging techniques to minimize these risks, but we can offer no assurance that we will, in fact, hedge currency risk or, that if we do, such strategies will be effective. As a result, a change in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our profitability.. Our investments in the software sector are subject to various risks, including intellectual property infringement issues and rapid technological changes, which may adversely affect our performance. Software is our largest industry concentration. Each industry contains certain industry related credit risks.. General risks of companies in the software industry sector include intellectual property infringement liability issues, the inability to protect software and other proprietary technology, extensive competition and limited barriers to entry. Generally, the market for software products is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changes in customer requirements and frequent new product introduction and enhancements. If a portfolio company in the software sector cannot develop new products and enhance its current products in response to technological changes and competing products, its business and operating results will be negatively affected. In addition, there has been a substantial amount of litigation in the software industry relating to intellectual property rights. Regardless of whether claims that a company is infringing patents or other intellectual property have any merit, these claims are time-consuming and costly. Moreover, a software company must monitor the unauthorized use of its intellectual property, which may be difficult and costly. A company's failure to protect its intellectual property could put it at a disadvantage to its competitors and harm its business, results of operations and financial condition. If a software company in which we invest is unable to navigate these risks, our performance may be adversely affected.. The effect of global climate change may impact the operations of our portfolio companies.. There may be evidence of global climate change. Climate change creates physical and financial risk and some of our portfolio companies may be adversely affected by climate change. For example, the needs of customers of energy companies vary with weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity. To the extent weather conditions are affected by climate change, energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of any changes. Increases in the cost of energy could adversely affect the cost of operations of our portfolio companies if the use of energy products or services is material to their business. A decrease in energy use due to weather changes may affect some of our portfolio companies' financial condition, through decreased revenues. Extreme weather conditions in general require more system backup, adding to costs, and can contribute to increased system stresses, including service interruptions.. Risks related to our operations as a BDC. While our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates is restricted under the 1940 Act, we have received an exemptive order from the SEC permitting certain affiliated investments subject to certain conditions. As a result, the Advisor may face conflicts of interests and investments made pursuant to the exemptive order conditions could in certain circumstances adversely affect the price paid or received by us or the availability or size of the position purchased or sold by us.. Any person that owns, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of our outstanding voting securities or is managed by the Advisor will generally be our affiliate for purposes of the 1940 Act and we are generally prohibited from participating in certain transactions such as co-investing with, or buying or selling any security from or to, such affiliate, absent the prior approval of our independent directors and, in some cases, of the SEC. However, the Advisor and the funds managed by the Advisor have received an exemption from certain SEC regulations prohibiting transactions with affiliates. The exemptive order requires that certain procedures be followed prior to making an investment subject to the order and such procedures could in certain circumstances adversely affect the price paid or received by us or the availability or size of the position purchased or sold by us. The Advisor may also face conflicts of interest in making investments pursuant to the exemptive order. See \"Risks related to our business - We have limited operating history as a BDC, and if the Advisor is unable to manage our investments effectively, we may be unable to achieve our investment objective. In addition, the Advisor may face conflicts in allocating investment opportunities between us and certain other entities that could impact our investment returns.\". 44. The 1940 Act also prohibits certain \"joint\" transactions with certain of our affiliates, which could include investments in the same portfolio company (whether at the same or different times), without prior approval of our independent directors and, in some cases, of the SEC. We are prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to any person who owns more than 25% of our voting securities and from or to certain of that person's affiliates, or entering into prohibited joint transactions with such persons, absent the prior approval of the SEC (other than certain limited situations pursuant to current regulatory guidance). The analysis of whether a particular transaction constitutes a joint transaction requires a review of the relevant facts and circumstances relating to the particular transaction. Similar restrictions limit our ability to transact business with our officers or directors or their affiliates.. Regulations governing our operation as a BDC may limit our ability to, and the way in which we raise additional capital, which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business may in the future require a substantial amount of capital. We may acquire additional capital from the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or from the additional issuance of senior securities (including debt and preferred stock). However, we may not be able to raise additional capital in the future on favorable terms or at all.. Our board of directors may decide to issue common stock to finance our operations rather than issuing debt or other senior securities. As a BDC, we are generally not able to issue our common stock at a price below net asset value without first obtaining required approvals from our stockholders and our independent directors. If our common stock trades at a discount to net asset value, those restrictions could adversely affect our ability to raise equity capital. Except in connection with the exercise of warrants or the conversion of convertible securities, in any such case the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price, that in the determination of our board of directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities at the relevant time. We may also make rights offerings to our stockholders at prices per share less than the net asset value per share, subject to the requirements of the 1940 Act. If we raise additional funds by issuing more common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders at that time would decrease, and such stockholders may experience dilution.. We may only issue senior securities up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act permits us to issue senior securities only in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after such issuance or incurrence. If our assets decline in value and we fail to satisfy this test or any stricter test under the terms of our leverage instruments, we may be required to liquidate a portion of our investments and repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when such sales or repayment may be disadvantageous, which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in the laws or regulations governing our business or the business of our portfolio companies, or changes in the interpretations thereof or newly enacted legislation and regulations, and any failure by us or our portfolio companies to comply with these laws or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition of us or our portfolio companies.. We are subject to changing rules and regulations of federal and state governments, as well as the stock exchange in which our common stock is listed. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC and The Nasdaq Global Select Market, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional regulations.. Changes in the laws or regulations or the interpretations of the laws and regulations that govern BDCs, RICs or non-depository commercial lenders could significantly affect our operations and our cost of doing business. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations and are subject to judicial and administrative decisions that affect our operations, including our loan originations, maximum interest rates, fees and other charges, disclosures to portfolio companies, the terms of secured transactions, collection and foreclosure procedures and other trade practices. If these laws, regulations or decisions change, or if we expand our business into jurisdictions that have adopted more stringent requirements than those in which we currently conduct business, we may have to incur significant expenses in order to comply, or we might have to restrict our operations. In addition, if we do not comply. 45. with applicable laws, regulations and decisions, we may lose licenses needed for the conduct of our business and may be subject to civil fines and criminal penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations of financial condition.. If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could be precluded from investing in certain assets or could be required to dispose of certain assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As a BDC, we are prohibited from acquiring any assets other than \"qualifying assets\" unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets. As of December 31, 2017, approximately $183.8 million, or approximately 11.4%, of our adjusted total assets were not \"qualifying assets.\" If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we will be prohibited from investing in additional non-qualifying assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, these rules could prevent us from making follow-on investments in existing portfolio companies (which could result in the dilution of our position) or could require us to dispose of investments at inopportune times in order to come into compliance with the 1940 Act. If we need to dispose of these investments quickly, it may be difficult to dispose of such investments on favorable terms. For example, we may have difficulty in finding a buyer and, even if a buyer is found, we may have to sell the investments at a substantial loss.. We will be subject to corporate-level U.S. federal income tax on all of our income if we are unable to qualify as a RIC under the Code, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial performance.. Although we are currently qualified as a RIC, no assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain RIC status. To maintain RIC status and be relieved of U.S. federal income taxes on income and gains distributed to its stockholders, we generally must meet the annual distribution, source-of-income and asset diversification requirements described below. In addition, our Leverage Program prohibits us from making distributions if doing so causes us to fail to maintain the asset coverage ratios stipulated by the 1940 Act or the Leverage Program.. To qualify as a RIC under the Code, we generally must meet certain source-of-income, asset diversification and annual distribution requirements. The annual distribution requirement for a RIC is satisfied if we distribute at least 90% of our ordinary income and net short-term capital gain in excess of net long-term capital loss, if any, to our stockholders. Since we use debt financing, we are subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements and other financial covenants under the terms of the Leverage Program, and we are, in some circumstances, also subject to similar requirements under the 1940 Act. The requirements could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to qualify as a RIC. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify as a RIC and, thus, may be subject to corporate-level income tax. To qualify as a RIC, we generally must also meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each calendar quarter. Failure to meet these tests may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of RIC status. Because we anticipate that most of our investments will be in private companies, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and may result in substantial losses.. If we fail to qualify as a RIC for any reason and become subject to corporate-level income tax, the resulting corporate-level income taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of our distributions.. We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income.. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, we may include in income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as original issue discount, which may arise if we receive warrants in connection with the making of a loan or possibly in other circumstances, or PIK interest, which represents contractual interest added to the loan balance and due in the future, often only at the end of the loan. Such original issue discount, which could be significant relative to our overall investment activities, or increases in loan balances as a result of PIK arrangements are generally included in our taxable income before we receive any corresponding cash payments. We also may be required to include in income certain other amounts that we do not receive in cash. Similarly, newly enacted tax. 46. legislation contains rules that may in certain other circumstances require the recognition of non-cash taxable income or may limit the deductibility of certain of our cash expenses.. Since we may recognize taxable income before or without receiving cash representing such income or may be subject to limitations on the deductibility of our income, if we invest to a substantial extent in non-cash paying debt instruments we may have difficulty meeting the tax requirement to distribute at least 90% of our ordinary income and net short-term capital gain in excess of net long-term capital loss, if any, to maintain our status as a RIC. Accordingly, we may have to sell some of our investments at times we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or reduce new investment originations to meet these distribution requirements.. There is a risk that you may not receive distributions or that our distributions may not grow over time and a portion of our distributions may be a return of capital.. We intend to make distributions on a quarterly basis to our stockholders out of assets legally available for distribution. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to make a specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. Our ability to pay distributions might be adversely affected by the impact of one or more of the risk factors described in this filing. Due to the asset coverage test applicable to us under the 1940 Act as a BDC, we may be limited in our ability to make distributions. Additionally, a portion of such distributions may include a return of stockholder capital. Distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits are considered nontaxable distributions and serve to reduce the basis of our shares in the hands of the common stockholders rather than being currently taxable. As a result of the reduction of the basis of our shares, common stockholders may incur additional capital gains taxes or may have lower capital losses.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, stockholders could lose confidence in our financial and other public reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our common stock.. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and, together with adequate disclosure controls and procedures, are designed to prevent fraud. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. In addition, any testing by us conducted in connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm (when undertaken, as noted below), may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses or that may require prospective or retroactive changes to our consolidated financial statements or identify other areas for further attention or improvement. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors and lenders to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock.. We may experience cyber-security incidents and are subject to cyber-security risks.. Our business operations rely upon secure information technology systems for data processing, storage and reporting. Despite careful security and controls design, implementation and updating, our information technology systems could become subject to cyber-attacks. Cyber-attacks include, but are not limited to, gaining unauthorized access to digital systems (e.g., through \"hacking\" or malicious software coding) for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruption. Cyber-attacks may also be carried out in a manner that does not require gaining unauthorized access, such as causing denial-of-service attacks on websites (i.e., efforts to make network services unavailable to intended users). Network, system, application and data breaches could result in operational disruptions or information misappropriation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Cyber-security failures or breaches by the Advisor, any sub-adviser(s) and other service providers (including, but not limited to, accountants, custodians, transfer agents and administrators), and the issuers of securities in which we invest, have the ability to cause disruptions and impact business operations, potentially resulting in financial losses, interference with our ability to calculate our net asset value, impediments to trading, the inability of our stockholders to transact business, violations of applicable privacy and other laws, regulatory fines, penalties,. 47. reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, or additional compliance costs. In addition, substantial costs may be incurred in order to prevent any cyber incidents in the future. While we have established a business continuity plan in the event of, and risk management systems to prevent, such cyberattacks, there are inherent limitations in such plans and systems including the possibility that certain risks have not been identified. Furthermore, we cannot control the cyber security plans and systems put in place by our service providers and issuers in which we invest. We and our stockholders could be negatively impacted as a result.. The failure in cyber-security systems, as well as the occurrence of events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems and management continuity planning could impair our ability to conduct business effectively.. The occurrence of a disaster such as a cyber-attack, a natural catastrophe, an industrial accident, a terrorist attack or war, events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems, or a support failure from external providers, could have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial condition, particularly if those events affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage, and retrieval systems or destroy data. If a significant number of our managers were unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct our business could be severely compromised.. We depend heavily upon computer systems to perform necessary business functions. Despite our implementation of a variety of security measures, our computer systems could be subject to cyber-attacks and unauthorized access, such as physical and electronic break-ins or unauthorized tampering. Like other companies, we may experience threats to our data and systems, including malware and computer virus attacks, unauthorized access, system failures and disruptions. If one or more of these events occurs, it could potentially jeopardize the confidential, proprietary and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations, which could result in damage to our reputation, financial losses, litigation, increased costs, regulatory penalties and/or customer dissatisfaction or loss.. We are dependent on information systems and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends.. Our business is dependent on our and third parties' communications and information systems. Any failure or interruption of those systems, including as a result of the termination of an agreement with any third-party service providers, could cause delays or other problems in our activities. Our financial, accounting, data processing, backup or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control and adversely affect our business. There could be:. • sudden electrical or telecommunications outages;. • natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes;. • disease pandemics;. • events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and. • cyber-attacks.. These events, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders.. Risks related to our common stock. Shares of our common stock may trade at a discount to our net asset value per share.. Common stock of BDCs, like that of closed-end investment companies, frequently trades at a discount to current net asset value, which could adversely affect the ability to raise capital. In the past, shares of our common stock have traded at a discount to our net asset value. The risk that shares of our common stock may trade at a discount to our net asset value is separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value per share may decline.. 48. If we sell shares of our common stock at a discount to our net asset value per share, stockholders who do not participate in such sale will experience immediate dilution in an amount that may be material.. The issuance or sale by us of shares of our common stock at a discount to net asset value poses a risk of dilution to our stockholders. In particular, stockholders who do not purchase additional shares of common stock at or below the discounted price in proportion to their current ownership will experience an immediate decrease in net asset value per share (as well as in the aggregate net asset value of their shares of common stock if they do not participate at all). These stockholders will also experience a disproportionately greater decrease in their participation in our earnings and assets and their voting power than the increase we experience in our assets, potential earning power and voting interests from such issuance or sale. In addition, such sales may adversely affect the price at which our common stock trades.. Your interest in us may be diluted if you do not fully acquire your proportionate share of any warrants, options or other rights to subscribe for, convert to, or purchase our common stock that we sell. In addition, in such circumstances, if the price at which we sell such warrants, options or other rights to subscribe for, convert to, or purchase our common stock, together with the exercise price, is less than our net asset value per share, then you will experience dilution of the net asset value of your shares.. We received authority from our stockholders at our 2013 annual meeting to issue warrants, options or other rights to subscribe for, convert to, or purchase shares of our common stock, which may include convertible preferred stock and convertible debentures. In the event we issue warrants, options or other rights to subscribe for, convert into, or purchase our common stock, stockholders who do not exercise such rights will own a smaller proportional interest in us than would otherwise be the case, thereby diluting the proportionate ownership interest and voting power of such stockholder. We cannot state precisely the amount of any such dilution in share ownership or voting power because we have no current intention of making any such offering and do not know at this time the terms or amount of such rights. The amount of dilution that a stockholder will experience could be substantial and the market price and net asset value per share of our common stock could be adversely affected. Our common stockholders will also indirectly bear the expenses associated with any rights offering we may conduct, regardless of whether they elect to exercise any rights.. In addition, if the price at which we sell such warrants, options or other rights to subscribe for, convert to, or purchase our common stock, together with the exercise price, is less than the net asset value per share of our common stock, then our stockholders who do not acquire their proportionate share of such rights will experience dilution of the aggregate net asset value of their shares as a result of the offering. The amount of any such decrease in net asset value is not predictable because it is not known at this time what the price of the warrants, options or other rights to subscribe for, convert into, or purchase our common stock and net asset value per share will be.. Our common stock price may be volatile and may fluctuate substantially.. As with any stock, the price of our common stock will fluctuate with market conditions and other factors. If you sell shares, the price received may be more or less than the original investment. Net asset value will be reduced immediately following our offering by the amount of the sales load and selling expenses paid by us. At our 2017 annual meeting of stockholders held on May 25, 2017, our stockholders approved our ability, subject to the condition that the maximum number of shares salable below net asset value pursuant to this authority in any particular offering that could result in such dilution is limited to 25% of our then outstanding common stock immediately prior to each such offering, to sell shares of our common stock at any level of discount from net asset value per share during the 12 month period following the date of the meeting. It should be noted that, theoretically, we may offer up to 25% of our then outstanding common stock each day. We intend to seek stockholder approval at our 2018 annual meeting to continue for an additional year our ability to issue shares of common stock below net asset value, subject to the condition that the maximum number of shares salable below net asset value pursuant to this authority in any particular offering that could result in such dilution is limited to 25% of our then outstanding common stock immediately prior to each such offering. Our common stock is intended for long-term investors and should not be treated as a trading vehicle. Shares of BDCs and closed-end management investment companies, which are structured similarly to us, frequently trade at a discount from their net asset value. This characteristic of closed-end investment companies is separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value per share of common stock may decline. We cannot predict whether our common stock will trade at, above or below net asset value. This. 49. risk of loss associated with this characteristic of BDCs and closed-end management investment companies may be greater for investors who sell their shares in a relatively short period of time after completion of an offering.. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly.. The market price and liquidity of the market for our common stock may be significantly affected by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include:. • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of BDCs or other companies in the sector in which we operate, which are not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies;. • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time;. • changes in law, regulatory policies or tax guidelines, particularly with respect to SBICs, RICs or BDCs;. • our loss of RIC status or the SBIC's loss of SBIC status;. • changes in earnings or variations in operating results;. • changes in the value of our portfolio of investments;. • any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors or securities analysts;. • departure of key personnel from the Advisor;. • operating performance of companies comparable to us;. • short-selling pressure with respect to shares of our common stock or BDCs generally;. • future sales of our securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for our common stock or the conversion of such securities;. • uncertainty surrounding the strength of the U.S. economic recovery;. • general economic trends and other external factors; and. • loss of a major funding source.. Your interest in us may be diluted if you do not fully exercise your subscription rights in any rights offering we may conduct. In addition, if the subscription price is less than our net asset value per share, then you will experience an immediate dilution of the aggregate net asset value of your shares.. In the event we issue subscription rights, stockholders who do not fully exercise their subscription rights should expect that they will, at the completion of a rights offering, own a smaller proportional interest in us than would otherwise be the case if they fully exercised their rights. We cannot state precisely the amount of any such dilution in share ownership because we do not know at this time what proportion of the shares will be purchased as a result of such rights offering.. In addition, if the subscription price is less than the net asset value per share of our common stock, then our stockholders would experience an immediate dilution of the aggregate net asset value of their shares as a result of the offering. The amount of any decrease in net asset value is not predictable because it is not known at this time what the subscription price and net asset value per share will be on the expiration date of a rights offering or what proportion of the shares will be purchased as a result of such rights offering. Such dilution could be substantial.. Terms relating to redemption may materially adversely affect your return on any debt securities that we may issue.. 50. If your debt securities are redeemable at our option, we may choose to redeem your debt securities at times when prevailing interest rates are lower than the interest rate paid on your debt securities. In addition, if your debt securities are subject to mandatory redemption, we may be required to redeem your debt securities also at times when prevailing interest rates are lower than the interest rate paid on your debt securities. In this circumstance, you may not be able to reinvest the redemption proceeds in a comparable security at an effective interest rate as high as your debt securities being redeemed.. Our credit ratings may not reflect all risks of an investment in our debt securities.. Our credit ratings are an assessment by third parties of our ability to pay our obligations. Consequently, real or anticipated changes in our credit ratings will generally affect the market value of our debt securities. Our credit ratings, however, may not reflect the potential impact of risks related to market conditions generally or other factors discussed above on the market value of or trading market for the publicly issued debt securities."
