[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. As a global investment management firm, risk is an inherent part of BlackRock's business. Global markets, by their nature, are prone to uncertainty and subject participants to a variety of risks. While BlackRock devotes significant resources across all of its operations to identify, measure, monitor, manage and analyze market, operating, legal, compliance, fiduciary and investment risks, BlackRock's business, financial condition, operating results and nonoperating results could be materially adversely affected and the Company's stock price could decline as a result of any of these risks and uncertainties, including the ones discussed below.. MARKET AND COMPETITION RISKS. Changes in the value levels of equity, debt, real assets, commodities, foreign exchange or other asset markets may cause assets under management (\"AUM\"), revenue and earnings to decline.. BlackRock's investment management revenue is primarily comprised of fees based on a percentage of the value of AUM and, in some cases, performance fees which are normally expressed as a percentage of returns to the client. Numerous factors, including price movements in the equity, debt or currency markets, or in the price of real assets, commodities or alternative investments in which BlackRock invests, could cause:. •  the value of AUM, or the returns BlackRock realizes on AUM, to decrease;. •  the withdrawal of funds from BlackRock's products in favor of products offered by competitors;. •  the rebalancing or reallocating of assets into BlackRock products that yield lower fees;. •  an impairment to the value of intangible assets and goodwill; or. •  a decrease in the value of seed or co-investment capital.. The occurrence of any of these events may cause the Company's AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.. BlackRock's investment advisory contracts may be terminated or may not be renewed by clients or fund boards on favorable terms and the liquidation of certain funds may be accelerated at the option of investors.. BlackRock derives a substantial portion of its revenue from providing investment advisory services. The advisory or management contracts BlackRock has entered into with its clients, including the agreements that govern many of BlackRock's investment funds, provide investors or, in some cases, the independent directors of private investment funds, with significant latitude to terminate such contracts, withdraw funds or liquidate funds by simple majority vote with limited notice or penalty, or to remove BlackRock as a fund's investment advisor (or equivalent). BlackRock also manages its U.S. mutual funds, closed-end and exchange-traded funds under management contracts that must be renewed and approved annually by the funds' respective boards of directors, a majority of whom are independent from the Company. BlackRock's fee arrangements under any of its advisory or management contracts may be reduced (including at the behest of a fund's board of directors). In addition, if a number of BlackRock's clients terminate their contracts, remove BlackRock from advisory roles, liquidate funds or fail to renew management contracts on favorable terms, the fees or carried interest BlackRock earns could be reduced, which may cause BlackRock's AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.. Increased competition may cause BlackRock's AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.. The investment management industry is highly competitive and has relatively low barriers to entry. BlackRock competes based on a number of factors including: investment performance, the level of fees charged, the quality and diversity of services and products provided, name recognition and reputation, and the ability to develop new investment strategies and products to meet the changing needs of investors. In addition, the introduction of new technologies, as well as regulatory changes, have altered the competitive landscape for investment managers, which may lead to fee compression or require BlackRock to spend more to modify or adapt its product offerings to attract and retain customers and remain competitive with products and services offered by other financial institutions, technology companies, trading, advisory or asset management firms. Increased competition on the basis of any of these factors, including competition leading to fee reductions on existing or new business, may cause the Company's AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.. Failure to maintain Aladdin's competitive position in a dynamic market for risk analytics could lead to a loss of clients and could impede BlackRock's productivity and growth.. The sophisticated risk analytics that BlackRock provides via its technology platform to support investment advisory and Aladdin clients are an important element of BlackRock's competitive success.  Aladdin's competitive position is based in part on its ability to combine risk analytics with portfolio management, trading and operations tools on a single platform.  Increased competition from risk analytics and investment management technology providers or a shift in client demand away to standalone or internally developed solutions, whether due to price competition, perceived client market share, platform flexibility or market-based or regulatory factors, may weaken Aladdin's competitive position and may cause the Company's revenue and earnings to decline.  In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to effectively protect and enforce its intellectual property rights in Aladdin.. The failure or negative performance of products offered by competitors may cause AUM in similar BlackRock products to decline irrespective of BlackRock's performance.. Many competitors offer similar products to those offered by BlackRock and the failure or negative performance of competitors' products could lead to a loss of confidence in similar BlackRock products, irrespective of the performance of such products. Any loss of confidence in a product type could lead to withdrawals, redemptions and liquidity issues in such products, which may cause the Company's AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.. 18. Changes in the value of seed and co-investments that BlackRock owns could affect its income and could increase the volatility of its earnings.. At December 31, 2017, BlackRock's net economic investment exposure of approximately $2.1 billion in its investments (see \"Item 7  -  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Investments and Investments of Consolidated VIEs\") primarily resulted from co-investments and seed investments in its sponsored investment funds. Movements in the equity, debt or currency markets, or in the price of real assets, commodities or other alternative investments, could lower the value of these investments as well as other minority investments, increase the volatility of BlackRock's earnings and cause earnings to decline.. Operating risks associated with BlackRock's securities lending program may result in client losses.. BlackRock lends securities to banks and broker-dealers on behalf of certain of its clients. In these securities lending transactions, the borrower is required to provide and maintain collateral at or above regulatory minimums. Securities on loan are marked to market daily to determine if the borrower is required to pledge additional collateral. BlackRock must manage this process and is charged with mitigating the associated operational risks. The failure of BlackRock's controls to mitigate such operational risks could result in financial losses for the Company's clients that participate in its securities lending programs (separate from the risks of collateral investments), and BlackRock may be held liable for any failure to manage any such risks.. BlackRock indemnifies certain securities lending clients for specified losses as a result of a borrower default.. BlackRock provides borrower default indemnification to certain of its securities lending clients. In the event of a borrower default, BlackRock would use the collateral pledged by the borrower to repurchase securities out on loan in order to replace them in a client's account. Borrower default indemnification is limited to the shortfall that occurs in the event the collateral available at the time of the borrower's default is insufficient to repurchase those securities out on loan.  BlackRock requires all borrowers to mark to market their pledged collateral daily to levels in excess of the value of the securities on loan to mitigate the likelihood of the indemnity being triggered. Where the collateral is in the form of cash, the indemnities BlackRock provides do not guarantee, assume or otherwise insure the investment performance or return of any cash collateral vehicle into which that cash collateral is invested. The amount of securities on loan as of December 31, 2017 and subject to indemnification was $200 billion. BlackRock held, as agent, cash and securities totaling $214 billion as collateral for indemnified securities on loan at December 31, 2017. Significant borrower defaults occurring simultaneously with rapid declines in the value of collateral pledged and/or increases in the value of the securities loaned may create collateral shortfalls, which could result in material liabilities under these indemnities and may cause the Company's revenue and earnings to decline.. BlackRock's decision to provide support to particular products from time to time, or the inability to provide support, may cause AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.. While not legally mandated, BlackRock may, at its option, from time to time choose to support investment products through capital or credit support for commercial or other reasons. Such support may utilize capital and liquidity that would otherwise be available for other corporate purposes. Losses on such support, as well as regulatory restrictions on the Company's ability to provide such support or the failure to have available or devote sufficient capital or liquidity to support products, may cause AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.. Increased geopolitical unrest could adversely affect the global economy or specific international, regional and domestic markets, which may cause BlackRock's AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.. Terrorist activity and the continued threat of terrorism and acts of civil or international hostility, both within the United States and abroad, as well as heightened security measures in response to these types of acts, may cause significant volatility and declines in the global markets, loss of life, property damage, disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. Global unrest or conflict or acts of terror, as well as any changes in the current geopolitical environment, may adversely affect the global economy or capital markets and cause BlackRock's AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.. Risks Related to INVESTMENT PERFORMANCE. Poor investment performance could lead to the loss of clients and may cause AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.. The Company's management believes that investment performance, including the efficient delivery of beta, is one of the most important factors for the growth and retention of AUM. Poor investment performance relative to applicable portfolio benchmarks or to competitors may cause AUM, revenue and earnings to decline as a result of:. •  client withdrawals in favor of better performing products;. •  client shifts to products that charge lower fees;. •  the diminishing ability to attract additional funds from existing and new clients;. •  reduced, minimal or no performance fees;. •  an impairment to the value of intangible assets and goodwill; or. •  a decrease in investment returns on seed and co-investment capital.. Performance fees may increase volatility of both revenue and earnings.. A portion of BlackRock's revenue is derived from performance fees on investment advisory assignments. Performance fees represented $594 million, or 5%, of total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017. Generally, the Company is entitled to a performance fee only if the agreement pursuant to which it is managing the assets provides for one and if returns on the related portfolio exceed agreed-upon periodic or cumulative return targets. If these targets are not exceeded, a performance fee for that period will not be earned and, if targets are based on. 19. cumulative returns, the Company may not earn performance fees in future periods. The volatility of the Company's future revenue and earnings may also be affected due to illiquid alternatives becoming an increasing component of the overall composition of the Company's performance fee generating assets. In particular, as BlackRock takes on more advisory assignments for illiquid investments, performance fees will generally be recognized over substantially longer multi-year periods than those associated with more liquid products.. Failure to identify errors in the quantitative models BlackRock utilizes to manage its business could adversely impact product performance and client relationships.. BlackRock employs various quantitative models to support its investment decisions and allocations, including those related to risk assessment, portfolio management, trading and hedging activities and product valuations. Any errors in the underlying models or model assumptions could have unanticipated and adverse consequences on BlackRock's business and reputation.. TECHNOLOGY AND OPERATIONAL RISKS. A failure in BlackRock's operational systems or infrastructure, including business continuity plans, could disrupt operations, damage the Company's reputation and cause BlackRock's AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.. BlackRock's infrastructure, including its technological capacity, data centers and office space, is vital to the competitiveness of its business. Moreover, a significant portion of BlackRock's critical business operations are concentrated in a limited number of geographic areas, including San Francisco, New York, London and Gurgaon. The failure to maintain an infrastructure commensurate with the size and scope of BlackRock's business, or the occurrence of a business outage or event outside BlackRock's control, including a major earthquake, hurricane, fire, terrorist act, pandemic or other catastrophic event in any location at which BlackRock maintains a major presence, could materially impact operations, result in disruption to the business or impede its growth. In addition, despite BlackRock's efforts to ensure business continuity, if it fails to keep business continuity plans up-to-date or if such plans, including secure back-up facilities and systems and the availability of back-up employees, are improperly implemented or deployed during a disruption, the Company's ability to operate could be adversely impacted which may cause AUM, revenue and earnings to decline or impact the Company's ability to comply with regulatory obligations leading to reputational harm, regulatory fines and/or sanctions.. A cyber-attack or a failure to implement effective information and cybersecurity policies, procedures and capabilities could disrupt operations and cause financial losses that may cause BlackRock's AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.. BlackRock is dependent on the effectiveness of the information and cybersecurity policies, procedures and capabilities it maintains to protect its computer and telecommunications systems and the data that resides on or is transmitted through them. An externally caused information security incident, such as a cyber-attack including a phishing scam, virus, or denial-of-service attack, or an internally caused incident, such as failure to control access to sensitive systems, could materially interrupt business operations or cause disclosure or modification of sensitive or confidential client or competitive information. Moreover, BlackRock's increased use of mobile and cloud technologies could heighten these and other operational risks, as certain aspects of the security of such technologies may be complex, unpredictable or beyond BlackRock's control. BlackRock's growing exposure to the public Internet, as well as reliance on mobile or cloud technology or any failure by mobile technology and cloud service providers to adequately safeguard their systems and prevent cyber-attacks, could disrupt BlackRock's operations and result in misappropriation, corruption or loss of personal, confidential or proprietary information. In addition, there is a risk that encryption and other protective measures may be circumvented, particularly to the extent that new computing technologies increase the speed and computing power available.. There have been a number of recent highly publicized cases involving financial services and consumer-based companies reporting the unauthorized disclosure of client or customer information, as well as cyber-attacks involving the dissemination, theft and destruction of corporate information or other assets, as a result of failure to follow procedures by employees or contractors or as a result of actions by third parties, including actions by terrorist organizations and hostile foreign governments. BlackRock has been the target of attempted cyber-attacks, as well as the co-opting of its brand to create fraudulent websites, and must monitor and develop its systems to protect its technology infrastructure and data from misappropriation or corruption, as the failure to do so could disrupt BlackRock's operations and cause financial losses. Although BlackRock takes protective measures and endeavors to strengthen its computer systems, software, technology assets and networks to prevent and address potential cyber-attacks, there can be no assurance that any of these measures prove effective. Moreover, due to the complexity and interconnectedness of BlackRock's systems, the process of upgrading or patching the Company's protective measures could itself create a risk of security issues or system disruptions for the Company, as well as for clients who rely upon, or have exposure to, BlackRock's systems.. In addition, due to BlackRock's interconnectivity with third-party vendors, advisors, central agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial institutions, BlackRock may be adversely affected if any of them are subject to a successful cyber-attack or other information security event, including those arising due to the use of mobile technology or a third-party cloud environment. BlackRock also routinely transmits and receives personal, confidential or proprietary information by email and other electronic means. The Company collaborates with clients, vendors and other third parties to develop secure transmission capabilities and protect against cyber-attacks. However, BlackRock cannot ensure that it or such third parties have all appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of such information.. Any information security incident or cyber-attack against BlackRock or third parties with whom it is connected, including any interception, mishandling or misuse of personal, confidential or proprietary information, could result in material financial loss, loss of competitive position, regulatory fines and/or sanctions, breach of client contracts, reputational harm or legal liability, which, in turn, may cause BlackRock's AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.. Failure or unavailability of third-party dependencies may adversely affect Aladdin operations and could lead to a loss of clients and could impede BlackRock's productivity and growth.. BlackRock relies on its ability to maintain a robust and secure technological framework to maximize the benefit of the Aladdin platform.  The analytical capabilities of Aladdin depend on the ability of a number of third parties to provide data and other information as inputs into Aladdin. 20. analytical calculations.  The failure of these third parties to provide such data or information, or disruption of such information flows, could result in operational difficulties and adversely impact BlackRock's ability to provide services to its investment advisory and Aladdin clients.. Continuing enhancements to Aladdin's capabilities, as well as the expansion of BlackRock's Aladdin platform into new markets and geographies, may expose BlackRock to heightened cyber- and information-security, operational and data management risks.. The operation of BlackRock's Aladdin platform routinely involves updating existing capabilities, developing new functionalities and expanding coverage into new markets and geographies, including to address client or regulatory requirements. These activities may expose BlackRock to additional cyber- and information-security risks, as well as increased execution, operational and data management risks, particularly in new geographies and markets. In addition, the highly regulated business activities of many Aladdin clients may indirectly expose BlackRock to heightened regulatory scrutiny. For example, the changing political and regulatory environment in certain jurisdictions in which Aladdin clients are based has required BlackRock to open new data centers in those jurisdictions in order to host client data in the client's home location. Operating new data centers in foreign jurisdictions may expose BlackRock to increased operational and information security risks, as well as additional regulatory risks associated with the compliance requirements of such jurisdictions. Any failure by BlackRock to manage or mitigate risks related to enhancing or expanding its Aladdin platform may lead to client attrition, reduced business, reputational harm or regulatory fines and/or sanctions, which may cause BlackRock's AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.. Failure to maintain adequate corporate and contingent liquidity may cause BlackRock's AUM, liquidity and earnings to decline, as well as harm its prospects for growth.. BlackRock's ability to meet anticipated cash needs depends upon a number of factors, including its ability to maintain and grow its AUM, creditworthiness and operating cash flows. Failure to maintain adequate liquidity could lead to unanticipated costs and force BlackRock to revise existing strategic and business initiatives. BlackRock's access to equity and debt markets and its ability to issue public or private debt, or secure lines of credit or commercial paper back-up lines, on reasonable terms may be limited by adverse market conditions, a reduction in its long- or short-term credit ratings, or changes in government regulations, including tax and interest rates. Failure to obtain funds and/or financing, or any adverse change to the cost of obtaining such funds and/or financing, may cause BlackRock's AUM, liquidity and earnings to decline, curtail its operations and limit or impede its prospects for growth.. BlackRock may be unable to develop new products and services and the development of new products and services may expose BlackRock to additional costs or operational risk.. BlackRock's financial performance depends, in part, on its ability to develop, market and manage new investment products and services. The development and introduction of new products and services require continued innovative efforts on the part of BlackRock and may require significant time and resources as well as ongoing support and investment. Substantial risk and uncertainties are associated with the introduction of new products and services, including the implementation of new and appropriate operational controls and procedures, shifting client and market preferences, the introduction of competing products or services and compliance with regulatory requirements. A failure to successfully manage these risks may have an adverse impact on BlackRock's reputation or cause the Company's costs to fluctuate, which may cause its AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.. Inorganic transactions may harm the Company's competitive or financial position if they are not successful.. BlackRock employs a variety of organic and inorganic strategies intended to enhance earnings, increase product offerings, access new clients, leverage advances in technology and expand into new geographies. Inorganic strategies have included hiring smaller-sized investment teams, making minority investments in early- to mid-stage technological and other ventures and acquiring investment management businesses and other small and medium-sized companies or divisions of companies. Inorganic transactions involve a number of financial, accounting, tax, regulatory, geographical and operational challenges and uncertainties, including in some cases the assumption of pre-existing liabilities. Any failure to identify and mitigate these risks through due diligence and indemnification provisions could adversely impact BlackRock's reputation, may cause its AUM, revenue and earnings to decline, and may harm the Company's competitive position in the investment management industry. Moreover, there can be no assurance that BlackRock will be able to successfully integrate or realize the intended benefits from inorganic transactions.. Investments in real assets such as real estate, infrastructure and energy assets may expose BlackRock and its funds and accounts to new or increased risks and liabilities, as well as reputational harm.. Investments in real assets, including real estate, infrastructure and energy assets, may expose BlackRock and its funds and accounts to increased risks and liabilities that are inherent in the ownership and management of such assets. These may include:. •  construction risks, including labor disputes or work stoppages, shortages of material or interruptions to the availability of necessary equipment;. •  accidents, adverse weather, force majeure or catastrophic events, such as explosions, fires or terrorist activity beyond BlackRock's control;. •  personal injury or property damage;. •  failures on the part of third-party managers or sub-contractors appointed in connection with investments or projects to adequately perform their contractual duties or operate in accordance with applicable laws;. •  exposure to stringent and complex foreign, federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, including those related to financial crime, permits, government contracting, conservation, exploration and production, tenancy, occupational health and safety, foreign investment and environmental protection;. •  environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, product and waste spills, pipeline and tank ruptures, and unauthorized discharges of products, wastes and other pollutants;. 21. •  changes to the supply and demand for properties and/or tenancies or fluctuations in the price of commodities;. •  the financial resources of tenants; and. •  contingent liabilities on disposition of assets.. The above risks may expose BlackRock's funds and accounts to additional expenses and liabilities, including costs associated with delays or remediation costs, and increased legal or regulatory costs, all of which could impact the returns earned by BlackRock's clients.  These risks could also result in direct liability for BlackRock by exposing BlackRock to regulatory sanction or litigation, including claims for compensatory or punitive damages. Similarly, market conditions may change during the course of developments or projects in which BlackRock invests that make such development or project less attractive than at the time it was commenced and potentially harm the investment returns of BlackRock's clients. The occurrence of any such events may expose BlackRock to reputational harm, divert management's attention away from BlackRock's other business activities or cause its AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.. Operating in international markets increases BlackRock's operational, political, regulatory and other risks.. As a result of BlackRock's extensive international operations, the Company faces associated operational, regulatory, reputational, political and foreign exchange rate risks, many of which are outside of the Company's control. Operating outside the United States may also expose BlackRock to increased compliance risks, as well as higher compliance costs to comply with U.S. and non-U.S. anti-corruption, anti-money laundering and sanctions laws and regulations. The failure of the Company's systems of internal control to mitigate such risks, or of its operating infrastructure to support its global activities, could result in operational failures and regulatory fines and/or sanctions, which may cause the Company's AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.. RISKS RELATED TO HUMAN CAPITAL. The potential for human error in connection with BlackRock's operational systems could disrupt operations, cause losses, lead to regulatory fines or damage the Company's reputation and may cause BlackRock's AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.. Many of BlackRock's operations are highly complex and are dependent on the Company's ability to process and monitor a large number of transactions, many of which occur across numerous markets and currencies at high volumes and frequencies. Although BlackRock expends considerable resources on systemic controls, supervision, technology and training in an effort to ensure that such transactions do not violate client guidelines and applicable rules and regulations or adversely affect clients, counterparties or the Company, BlackRock's operations are dependent on its employees. From time-to-time, employees make mistakes that are not always immediately detected by policies and procedures intended to prevent and detect such errors. These can include calculation errors, errors in software implementation or development, failure to follow protocols, patch systems, or report issues or errors in judgment. Human errors, even if promptly discovered and remediated, may disrupt operations or result in regulatory fines and/or sanctions, breach of client contracts, reputational harm or legal liability, which, in turn, may cause BlackRock's AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.. Fraud, the circumvention of controls or the violation of risk management and workplace policies could have an adverse effect on BlackRock's reputation, which may cause the Company's AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.. Although BlackRock seeks to foster a positive workplace culture, has adopted a comprehensive risk management process and continues to enhance various controls, procedures, policies and systems to monitor and manage risks, it cannot ensure that its workplace culture or such controls, procedures, policies and systems will successfully identify and manage internal and external risks. BlackRock is subject to the risk that its employees, contractors or other third parties may deliberately or recklessly seek to circumvent established controls to commit fraud, pay or solicit bribes or otherwise act in ways that are inconsistent with the Company's controls, policies, procedures, workplace culture or principles. Persistent attempts to circumvent policies and controls or repeated incidents involving fraud, conflicts of interests or transgressions of policies and controls could have an adverse effect on BlackRock's reputation, which could cause adverse publicity, costly regulatory inquiries, fines and/or sanctions and may cause the Company's AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.. The failure to recruit and retain employees and develop and implement effective executive succession could lead to the loss of clients and may cause AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.. BlackRock's success is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of its highly skilled workforce and the Company's ability to plan for the future long-term growth of the business by identifying and developing those employees who can ultimately transition into key roles within BlackRock. The global market for qualified fund managers, investment analysts, technology and risk specialists and other professionals is competitive, and factors that affect BlackRock's ability to attract and retain such employees include the Company's reputation and workplace culture, the immigration policies in the jurisdictions in which BlackRock has offices, the compensation and benefits it provides, and its commitment to effectively managing executive succession, including the development and training of qualified individuals.. In addition, a percentage of the deferred compensation that BlackRock pays to its employees is tied to the Company's share price. As such, if BlackRock's share price were to decrease materially, the retention value of such deferred compensation would decrease. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to be successful in its efforts to recruit and retain employees and effectively manage executive succession. If BlackRock is unable to offer competitive compensation or otherwise attract and retain talented individuals, or if it fails to effectively manage executive succession, the Company's ability to compete effectively and retain its existing clients may be materially impacted.. Risks Related to KEY THIRD-PARTY Relationships. The impairment or failure of third parties may cause BlackRock's AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.. BlackRock's investment management activities expose the products and accounts it manages to many different industries and counterparties, including distributors, brokers and dealers, commercial and investment banks, clearing organizations, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Transactions with counterparties expose the products and accounts BlackRock manages to credit risk in the event the. 22. applicable counterparty defaults. Although BlackRock regularly assesses risks posed by its counterparties, such counterparties may be subject to sudden swings in the financial and credit markets that may impair their ability to perform or they may otherwise fail to meet their obligations. Any such impairment or failure could negatively impact the performance of products or accounts managed by BlackRock, which could lead to the loss of clients and may cause BlackRock's AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.. The failure of a key vendor to BlackRock to fulfill its obligations could have a material adverse effect on BlackRock's reputation or business, which may cause the Company's AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.. BlackRock depends on a number of key vendors for various fund administration, accounting, custody, market data, market indices and transfer agent roles and other distribution and operational needs. BlackRock performs focused diligence on its vendors in an effort to ensure they operate in accordance with expectations; however, to the extent any significant deficiencies are uncovered, there may be few, or no, feasible alternative vendors available to BlackRock in certain areas.. In addition, BlackRock may from time to time transfer key contracts from one vendor to another. For example, BlackRock is currently in the process of moving custody services on more than $1 trillion of client assets from State Street Corp. to JPMorgan Chase & Co., the migration of which is expected to be complete by the end of 2018. Key contract transfers may be costly and complex, and expose BlackRock to heightened operational risks.  Any failure to mitigate such risks could result in reputational harm, as well as financial losses to BlackRock and its clients.  The failure or inability of BlackRock to diversify its sources for key services or the failure of any key vendor to fulfill its obligations could result in activities inconsistent with clients' investment management agreements, have an adverse financial impact on BlackRock products or lead to operational and regulatory issues for the Company, which could result in reputational harm or legal liability, fines and/or sanctions and may cause BlackRock's AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.. Any disruption to the Company's distribution channels may cause BlackRock's AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.. BlackRock relies on a number of third parties to provide distribution, portfolio administration and servicing for certain BlackRock investment management products and services through their various distribution channels. BlackRock's ability to maintain strong relationships with its distributors may impact the Company's future performance, and its relationships with distributors are subject to periodic renegotiation that may result in increased distribution costs and/or reductions in the amount of BlackRock products and services being marketed or distributed. Moreover, new fiduciary regulations could lead to significant shifts in distributors' business models and more limited product offerings, potentially resulting in reduced distribution and/or marketing of certain of the Company's products and services and fee compression. If BlackRock is unable to distribute its products and services successfully, if it experiences an increase in distribution-related costs, or if it is unable to replace or renew existing distribution arrangements, BlackRock's AUM, revenue and earnings may decline. In addition, improper activities, as well as inadequate anti-money laundering diligence conducted by third-party distributors, could create reputational harm to BlackRock.. Disruption to the operations of third parties whose functions are integral to BlackRock's Exchange-Traded Fund (\"ETF\") platform may adversely affect the prices at which ETFs trade, particularly during periods of market volatility.. BlackRock is the largest provider of ETFs globally. Shares of ETFs trade on stock exchanges at prices at, above or below the ETF's most recent net asset value. The net asset value of an ETF is calculated at the end of each business day and fluctuates with changes in the market value of the ETF's holdings. The trading price of the ETF's shares fluctuates continuously throughout trading hours. While an ETF's creation/redemption feature and the arbitrage mechanism are designed to make it more likely that the ETF's shares normally will trade at prices close to the ETF's net asset value, exchange prices may deviate significantly from the ETF's net asset value. ETF market prices are subject to numerous potential risks, including trading halts invoked by a stock exchange, inability or unwillingness of market markers, authorized participants, settlement systems or other market participants to perform functions necessary for an ETF's arbitrage mechanism to function effectively, or significant market volatility. Although BlackRock and other large issuers of ETFs are working with market participants to seek to enhance U.S. equity market resiliency, there can be no assurance that structural reforms will be implemented in a timely or effective fashion, or at all. Moreover, if market events lead to incidences where ETFs trade at prices that deviate significantly from an ETF's net asset value, or trading halts are invoked by the relevant stock exchange or market, investors may lose confidence in ETF products and redeem their holdings, which may cause BlackRock's AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.. Legal and Regulatory Risks. BlackRock is subject to extensive regulation around the world.. BlackRock's business is subject to extensive regulation around the world. These regulations subject BlackRock's business activities to an array of increasingly detailed operational requirements, compliance with which is costly and complex. In addition, many of BlackRock's legal entities may be subject to laws and regulations aimed at preventing corruption, money laundering, inappropriate employment practices, illegal payments and engaging in business activities with certain individuals, countries or groups, including but not limited to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the USA PATRIOT Act, the Bank Secrecy Act and the U.K. Bribery Act. BlackRock is also subject to certain risk retention rules and regulation, as well as regulatory capital requirements, in the United States and abroad, which require the Company to maintain capital to support certain of its businesses. To the extent that these rules and regulations become more stringent, or if BlackRock is required to hold increased levels of capital to support its businesses, the Company's financial performance or plans for growth may be adversely impacted.. BlackRock may also be adversely affected by its failure to comply with current laws and regulations or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. Challenges associated with interpreting regulations issued in numerous countries in a globally consistent manner may add to such risks, if regulators in different jurisdictions have inconsistent views or provide only limited regulatory guidance. In particular, violation of applicable laws or regulations could result in fines and/or sanctions, temporary or permanent prohibition of certain activities, reputational harm and related client terminations, suspensions of employees or revocation of their licenses, suspension or termination of investment adviser, broker-dealer or other registrations, or suspension or termination of bank charter or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on BlackRock's reputation or business and may cause the Company's AUM, revenue and earnings to. 23. decline. For a more extensive discussion of the laws, regulations and regulators to which BlackRock is subject, see \"Item 1  -  Business  -  Regulation.\". Regulatory reforms in the United States expose BlackRock to increasing regulatory scrutiny, as well as regulatory uncertainty.. In recent years a number of regulatory reforms have been introduced in the United States, including several that remain proposals or that are at various phases of implementation, and the level of regulatory scrutiny to which BlackRock is subject has increased. In addition, there are numerous potential changes to financial services regulation under current consideration, including reform and repeal initiatives arising out of or in connection with the executive order issued in February 2017 directing the U.S. Department of the Treasury (\"Treasury\") to identify the extent to which existing laws, treaties, rules, regulations and policies promote, support or inhibit certain core principles for financial regulation set forth in the order (the \"Executive Order\"), that may directly or indirectly impact BlackRock's business or operating activities.  BlackRock, as well as its clients, vendors and distributors, have expended resources and altered certain of their business or operating activities to prepare for, address and meet the requirements that such regulatory reforms impose. While BlackRock is, or may become, subject to numerous reform initiatives in the United States, see \"Item 1  -  Business  -  Regulation,\" key regulatory reforms that may impact the Company include:. •  Designation as a systemically important financial institution (\"SIFI\"): The Financial Stability Oversight Council (\"FSOC\") has the authority to designate nonbank financial institutions as SIFIs. The FSOC's most recent statements generally indicate that it is focused on products and activities, rather than designation, in its review of asset managers. The Treasury report on asset management, issued in October 2017 pursuant to the Executive Order, also expressed this view. In addition, in November 2017, Treasury made recommendations concerning the process by which the FSOC designates nonbanks as SIFIs, further supporting a products and activities approach to addressing risks in asset management. In the event that BlackRock is designated as a SIFI, under Dodd-Frank, the Federal Reserve is charged with establishing enhanced regulatory requirements for nonbank financial institutions and BlackRock could become subject to direct supervision by the Federal Reserve.. •  Securities and Exchange Commission (\"SEC\") Rulemakings for US Registered Funds and Investment Advisers: The SEC is engaged in a period of rule-making in an effort to improve and modernize the regulatory structure governing the asset management industry, and registered investment companies in particular. In so doing, it has adopted rules that include (i) new monthly and annual reporting requirements for certain U.S. registered funds; (ii) enhanced reporting regimes for investment advisers; and (iii) implementing liquidity risk management programs for ETFs and open-end funds, other than money market funds. These rules, many of which are currently in an implementation period, will increase BlackRock's public reporting and disclosure requirements, which could be costly and may impede BlackRock's growth. Certain other rules impacting investment advisers and U.S. registered funds were proposed (or were under discussion for proposal) by the SEC's prior leadership, however the SEC's current leadership has indicated that these efforts are not expected to result in any short-term action.  In the event the SEC moves forward with any such proposals, any new rules, guidance or regulatory initiatives could expose BlackRock to additional compliance costs and may require the Company to change how it operates its business and/or manages its funds.. •  The Volcker Rule: Provisions of Dodd-Frank referred to as the \"Volcker Rule\" created a new section of the Bank Holding Company Act that places limitations on the ability of banks and their subsidiaries to engage in proprietary trading and to invest in and transact with certain private investment funds, including hedge funds, private equity funds and funds of funds (collectively \"covered funds\"). The Bank Holding Company Act by its terms does not currently apply to BlackRock. The Federal Reserve currently takes the position that PNC's ownership interest in BlackRock, which is approximately 22%, causes BlackRock to be treated as a nonbank subsidiary of PNC for the purpose of the Bank Holding Company Act and that BlackRock is subject to banking regulation. Based on this interpretation of the Bank Holding Company Act, the Federal Reserve could initiate a process to formally determine that PNC controls BlackRock under the terms of the Bank Holding Company Act. Any such determination, if successful, would subject BlackRock to current and future regulatory requirements under the Bank Holding Company Act, including the Volcker Rule. Conformance with the Volcker Rule may require BlackRock to remove its name from the names of its covered funds, and to sell certain seed and co-investments that it holds in those funds, which may occur at a discount to existing carrying value depending on market conditions.. •  Revised Department of Labor (\"DOL\") Fiduciary Rule: In April 2016, the DoL published a new regulation defining the term \"fiduciary\" for purposes of the fiduciary responsibility provisions of Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 and the prohibited transaction excise tax provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. The substantive provisions of the rule began to apply in June 2017. However, the applicability date of many conditions of the prohibited transaction exemptions accompanying the rule has been delayed until July 2019, while the DoL continues its re-examination of the rule and the prohibited transaction exemptions. If the DoL does not repeal or revise the rule or revise the prohibited transaction exemptions, the rule could require BlackRock to revise a number of its distribution relationships, create compliance and operational challenges for BlackRock's distribution partners and may limit BlackRock's ability to provide certain useful services and education to its clients.. Regulatory reforms in the United States could require BlackRock to alter its future business or operating activities, which could be costly, impede the Company's growth and cause its AUM, revenue and earnings to decline. Regulatory reform may also impact BlackRock's banking, insurance company and pension fund clients, which could cause them to change their investment strategies or allocations in manners that may be adverse to BlackRock.. International regulatory reforms expose BlackRock and its clients to increasing regulatory scrutiny, as well as regulatory uncertainty.. BlackRock's business and operating activities are subject to increasing regulatory oversight outside of the United States and the Company may be affected by a number of pending regulatory reform initiatives in EMEA and the Asia-Pacific region, as well as volatility associated with international regulatory uncertainty, including:. •  British Exit from the European Union: Following the June 2016 vote to exit the European Union (\"EU\"), the United Kingdom served notice under Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union on March 29, 2017 to initiate the process of exiting from the EU, commonly referred to as \"Brexit\". The outcome of the negotiations between the United Kingdom and the EU in connection with Brexit is highly. 24. uncertain and information regarding the long-term consequences is expected to become clearer over time as negotiations progress. The Company continues to prepare for a range of potential outcomes in connection with Brexit.. •  Designation as a systemically important financial institution: The Financial Stability Board (\"FSB\") working with the International Organization of Securities Commissions (\"IOSCO\") is considering potential systemic risk related to asset management; statements made by these organizations have generally indicated that they are, at this time, focused on a products and activities, rather than designation, approach in their review of asset managers. The FSB has indicated that it may develop criteria for designation of nonbank non-insurers in the future to address \"residual risks\".  Any measures applied in relation to a G-SIFI designation from the FSB would need to be implemented through existing regulatory processes and procedures by relevant national authorities.. •  Reform of EU investment markets: The European Commission has revised the Directive governing the provision of investment services in Europe (\"MiFID\") and introduced an associated Regulation (together with certain secondary regulation, \"MiFID II\"). The Regulation's requirements apply consistently across the EU, whereas there may be some variation in the application of MiFID as between EU Member States. The MiFID II reforms, which came into force in January 2018, are substantive, materially changing market transparency requirements and enhancing protections afforded to investors. New disclosure and reporting obligations have been introduced, together with restrictions on how research may be funded and the nature of payments that may be provided to distributors. MiFID II, together with other market structure reforms, will additionally force more derivatives to be traded on-exchange and introduce new commodity derivatives position limits. The broad nature of the MiFID II reforms may impact BlackRock's product development, client servicing and distribution models. In particular, additional disclosures are required in respect of costs and fees BlackRock charges to certain of its clients. MiFID II may also impact the ability of certain of BlackRock's distribution partners to accept commissions. Market structure reforms may also impact the way that the Company executes investment decisions for client portfolios and reports on such transactions and could have an impact on general market liquidity.. •  Revised EU capital requirements: EU regulators are considering how to design an appropriate capital regime for non-systemically important investment firms as the current regime is based on banking requirements and has not been modified for asset managers. In December 2017, the European Commission published a legislative proposal addressed to the European Parliament and Council for a new Directive and new Regulation on prudential requirements for MiFID investment firms. The new legislative package is currently expected to come into effect in 2020 following agreement between the European Council and Parliament. Once implemented, any new requirements could result in significant changes to the methodology used to determine the amount of regulatory capital that BlackRock is required to hold in the EU.. •  EU market access: The European Commission and certain EU Member States have recently advanced a more restrictive approach to the need for \"equivalence\", which is the process by which the legal, regulatory and/or supervisory system in non-EU Member States is recognized by the European Commission as comparably effective to that in the EU, thereby allowing such non-EU Member States access to the EU single market in financial services. Additionally, in September 2017, the European Commission issued a proposal to enhance the European Supervisory Authorities' powers by requiring that all third-country outsourcing, delegation and risk transfer arrangements be assessed by the European Securities and Markets Authority (\"ESMA\"). If enacted, the proposal would transfer to ESMA the ability of EU Member States to authorize the outsourcing of asset management activities beyond the EU's borders. The proposal could have a significant impact on asset management firms with operations based outside of the EU, including BlackRock, and it may affect the Company's ability to delegate fund management and/or costs associated with such delegation.. •  EU money market fund reform: In November 2016, the EU council announced political agreement with the European Parliament on certain money market funds reforms that are intended to reduce perceived risks associated with these products. The final text was published in the Official Journal of the EU in June 2017, starting an 18-month transition period for existing funds to comply. The reforms will limit the use of constant net asset value money market funds to those holding only government debt, and introduce a new category of \"low volatility net asset value\" money market funds, with both categories of money market funds being subject to reinforced liquidity requirements as well as safeguards such as liquidity fees and redemption gates. They may also reduce the attractiveness of certain money market funds to investors. BlackRock is evaluating the reforms and potential impact to its existing constant net asset value money market funds.. •  New disclosures to retail consumers: EU legislators have introduced a new \"Key Information Document\" (\"KID\"), which is applicable where a retail consumer is sold Packaged Retail and Insurance-based Investment Products (\"PRIIPs\") and which came into effect in January 2018. The KID must include specific information on costs, risks and performance. BlackRock is required to produce a KID for each fund in scope, as well as to make information available to distribution partners who sell these funds in the EU.. •  Increased international regulatory scrutiny: BlackRock and its subsidiaries are subject to the authority of numerous governmental and regulatory bodies outside of the United States. These regulators have imposed numerous regulations, guidelines and standards on the activities of BlackRock and its subsidiaries covering a variety of areas, including capital resources requirements, marketing activities, client and investor protections, senior management arrangements, and system and control requirements. In the event that BlackRock or any of its subsidiaries fail to comply with these often complex guidelines, regulations and standards, the regulators have broad powers to suspend or revoke any licenses they may have granted and/or to impose fines and/or sanctions.. International regulatory reforms could require BlackRock to alter its future business or operating activities, which could be time-consuming and costly, impede the Company's growth and cause its AUM, revenue and earnings to decline. Regulatory reform may also impact BlackRock's internationally-based clients, which could cause them to change their investment strategies or allocations in manners that may be adverse to BlackRock.. Legal proceedings may cause the Company's AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.. BlackRock is subject to a number of sources of potential legal liability and the Company, certain of the investment funds it manages and certain of its subsidiaries and employees have been named as defendants in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation arising in connection with BlackRock's activities. Certain of BlackRock's subsidiaries and employees are also subject to periodic examination, special inquiries and potential proceedings by regulatory authorities, including the Securities Exchange Commission, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (\"OCC\"), DoL, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Financial Conduct Authority and Federal Reserve. Similarly, from time to time, BlackRock receives subpoenas or other requests for information from various U.S. and non-U.S. governmental and. 25. regulatory authorities in connection with certain industry-wide, company-specific or other investigations or proceedings. These examinations, inquiries and proceedings have in the past and could in the future, if compliance failures or other violations are found, cause the relevant regulator to institute proceedings and impose sanctions for violations. Any such action may also result in litigation by investors in BlackRock's funds, other BlackRock clients or BlackRock's shareholders, which could harm the Company's reputation and may cause its AUM, revenue and earnings to decline, potentially harm the investment returns of the applicable fund, or result in the Company being liable for damages.. In addition, when clients retain BlackRock to manage their assets or provide them with products or services, they typically specify contractual requirements or guidelines that BlackRock must observe in the provision of its services. A failure to comply with these guidelines or requirements could expose BlackRock to lawsuits, harm its reputation or cause clients to withdraw assets or terminate contracts.. As BlackRock's business continues to grow, the Company must routinely address conflicts of interest, as well as the perception of conflicts of interest, between itself and its clients, employees or vendors. In addition, the SEC and other regulators have increased their scrutiny of potential conflicts. BlackRock has procedures and controls in place that are designed to detect and address these issues. However, appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and if the Company fails, or appears to fail, to deal appropriately with any conflict of interest, it may face reputational damage, litigation, regulatory proceedings, or penalties, fines and/or sanctions, any of which may cause BlackRock's AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.. BlackRock is subject to U.S. banking regulations that may limit its business activities.. BlackRock's trust bank subsidiary, which is a national banking association chartered by the OCC, is subject to OCC regulation and capital requirements. The OCC has broad supervisory and enforcement authority over BlackRock's trust bank. Being subject to banking regulation may put BlackRock at a competitive disadvantage because certain of its competitors are not subject to these limitations. In addition, as described in \"Item 1-Business-Regulation\", PNC owns approximately 22% of BlackRock's capital stock, which may subject BlackRock to banking regulation as a nonbank subsidiary of PNC. The Bank Holding Company Act by its terms does not currently apply to BlackRock. The Federal Reserve currently takes the position that this ownership interest causes BlackRock to be treated as a nonbank subsidiary of PNC for the purpose of the Bank Holding Company Act and that BlackRock is subject to banking regulation. Based on this interpretation of the Bank Holding Company Act, the Federal Reserve could initiate a process to formally determine that PNC controls BlackRock under the terms of the Bank Holding Company Act.  Any such determination, if successful, would subject BlackRock to current and future regulatory requirements under the Bank Holding Company Act, including the Volcker Rule, that are more restrictive than those the Company is subject to under other applicable laws, as well as the enforcement authority of the Federal Reserve, which includes the power to impose substantial fines and other penalties for violations. Any effort by BlackRock to contest a control determination by the Federal Reserve may be costly and complex and may not result in a reversal of such determination.. Failure to comply with ownership reporting requirements could result in harm to BlackRock's reputation and may cause its AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.. Of note among the various international regulations to which BlackRock is subject are the extensive and increasingly stringent regulatory reporting requirements that necessitate the monitoring and reporting of issuer exposure levels (thresholds) across the holdings of managed funds and accounts and those of the Company. The specific triggers and the reporting methods that these threshold filings entail vary significantly by regulator and across jurisdictions. BlackRock continues to invest in technology, training and its employees to further enhance its monitoring and reporting functions. Despite these investments, the complexity of the various threshold reporting requirements combined with the breadth of the assets managed by the Company and high volume of securities trading have caused errors and omissions to occur in the past, and pose a risk that errors or omissions may occur in the future. Any such errors may expose BlackRock to monetary penalties, which could have an adverse effect on BlackRock's reputation and may cause its AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.. BlackRock has been the subject of third-party commentary citing concerns about index investing and common ownership.. As a leader in the index investing and asset management industry, BlackRock has been the subject of third-party commentary citing concerns about the growth of index investing, as well as perceived competition issues associated with asset managers managing stakes in multiple companies within certain industries, known as \"common ownership\". The commentators argue that index funds have the potential to distort investment flows, create stock price bubbles, or conversely, exacerbate a decline in market prices. Additional commentary focuses on competition issues associated with common ownership and purports to link aggregated equity positions in certain concentrated industries managed by asset managers with higher consumer prices and escalating executive compensation, among other things. Although there is substantial literature highlighting the benefits of index investing, as well as casting doubt on the assumptions, methodology and conclusions associated with common ownership arguments, some commentators have proposed policy measures in connection with the discourse in this area, including limits on stakes managed by asset managers. If the conclusions advanced by such commentators were to gain traction or result in the enactment of policy measures that place limits on asset managers, BlackRock's business operations, reputation or financial condition may be adversely affected.. New tax legislation or changes to existing U.S. and non-U.S. tax laws, treaties and regulations or challenges to BlackRock's historical taxation practices may adversely affect BlackRock's effective tax rate, business and overall financial condition.. BlackRock's businesses may be directly or indirectly affected by tax legislation and regulation, or the modification of existing tax laws, by U.S. or non-U.S. authorities. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"2017 Tax Act\") was enacted. Over the next few months, as the Company finalizes the impact of tax reform and clarifies the potential for future investment opportunities, BlackRock intends to reassess its capital management plans for the balance of 2018.. In addition, certain EU Member States have enacted financial transaction taxes (\"FTTs\"), which impose taxation on a broad range of financial instrument and derivatives transactions, and the European Commission has proposed legislation to harmonize these taxes and provide for the adoption of EU-level legislation applicable to some (but not all) EU Member States. If introduced as proposed, FTTs could have an adverse effect on BlackRock's financial results and on clients' performance results.. 26. The application of complex tax regulations involves numerous uncertainties, and in the normal course of business U.S. and non-U.S. tax authorities may review and challenge tax positions adopted by BlackRock. These challenges may result in adjustments to, or impact the timing or amount of, taxable income, deductions or other tax allocations, which may adversely affect BlackRock's effective tax rate and overall financial condition.. RISKS RELATED TO BLACKROCK'S SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDER. PNC owns 22% of BlackRock's capital stock. Future sales or distributions of BlackRock's common stock in the public market by the Company or PNC could adversely affect the trading price of BlackRock's common stock.. As of December 31, 2017, PNC owned 22% of the Company's capital stock. Sales or distributions of a substantial number of shares of BlackRock's common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales or distributions might occur, may cause the market price of BlackRock's common stock to decline.. PNC has agreed to vote as a stockholder in accordance with the recommendation of BlackRock's Board of Directors, and certain actions will require special board approval or the prior approval of PNC.. As discussed in BlackRock's proxy statement, PNC has agreed to vote all of its voting shares in accordance with the recommendation of BlackRock's Board of Directors in accordance with the provisions of its stockholder agreement with BlackRock. As a consequence, if the shares held by PNC constitute a substantial portion of the outstanding voting shares, matters submitted to a stockholder vote that require a majority or a plurality of votes for approval, including elections of directors, will have a substantial number of shares voted in accordance with the determination of the BlackRock Board of Directors. This arrangement has the effect of concentrating a significant block of voting control over BlackRock in its Board of Directors, whether or not stockholders agree with any particular determination of the Board.. As discussed in BlackRock's proxy statement, pursuant to BlackRock's stockholder agreement with PNC, the following may not be done without prior approval of all of the independent directors, or at least two-thirds of the directors, then in office:. •appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer of BlackRock;. •  any merger, issuance of shares or similar transaction in which beneficial ownership of a majority of the total voting power of BlackRock capital stock would be held by persons different than the persons holding such majority of the total voting power prior to the occurrence of any such merger, issuance of shares or similar transaction, or any sale of all or substantially all assets of BlackRock;. •  any acquisition of any person or business which has a consolidated net income after taxes for its preceding fiscal year that equals or exceeds 20% of BlackRock's consolidated net income after taxes for its preceding fiscal year if such acquisition involves the current or potential issuance of BlackRock capital stock constituting more than 10% of the total voting power of BlackRock capital stock issued and outstanding immediately after completion of such acquisition;. •  any acquisition of any person or business constituting a line of business that is materially different from the lines of business BlackRock and its controlled affiliates are engaged in at that time if such acquisition involves consideration in excess of 10% of the total assets of BlackRock on a consolidated basis;. •  except for repurchases otherwise permitted under the stockholder agreement, any repurchase by BlackRock or any subsidiary of shares of BlackRock capital stock such that after giving effect to such repurchase BlackRock and its subsidiaries shall have repurchased more than 10% of the total voting power of BlackRock capital stock within the 12-month period ending on the date of such repurchase;. •any amendment to BlackRock's certificate of incorporation or bylaws; or. •any matter requiring stockholder approval pursuant to the rules of the New York Stock Exchange.. Additionally, BlackRock may not enter into any of the following transactions without the prior approval of PNC:. •  any sale of any subsidiary of BlackRock, the annualized revenue of which, together with the annualized revenue of any other subsidiaries disposed of within the same year, are more than 20% of the annualized revenue of BlackRock for the preceding fiscal year on a consolidated basis;. •  for so long as BlackRock is deemed a subsidiary of PNC for purposes of the Bank Holding Company Act, entering into any business or activity that is prohibited for any such subsidiary under the Bank Holding Company Act;. •  any amendment of any provision of a stockholder agreement between BlackRock and any stockholder beneficially owning greater than 20% of BlackRock capital stock that would be viewed by a reasonable person as being adverse to PNC or materially more favorable to the rights of any stockholder beneficially owning greater than 20% of BlackRock capital stock than to PNC;. •  any amendment, modification, repeal or waiver of BlackRock's certificate of incorporation or bylaws that would be viewed by a reasonable person as being adverse to the rights of PNC or more favorable to the rights of any stockholder beneficially owning greater than 20% of BlackRock capital stock, or any settlement or consent in a regulatory enforcement matter that would be reasonably likely to cause PNC or any of its affiliates to suffer regulatory disqualification, suspension of registration or license or other material adverse regulatory consequences; or. • a voluntary bankruptcy or similar filing by BlackRock.. 27"
