[1] "Item 1A.     Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business. The industry in which we operate is dependent upon the homebuilding industry and repair and remodeling activity, the economy, the credit markets and other important factors.. The building products supply and services industry is highly dependent on new single-family home construction, multi-family construction and repair and remodeling activity, which in turn are dependent upon a number of factors, including interest rates, consumer confidence, employment rates, wage rates, foreclosure rates, housing inventory levels, housing demand, the availability of land, local zoning and permitting processes, the availability of construction financing, the availability of qualified trade laborers and the health of the economy and mortgage markets. Unfavorable changes in demographics, credit markets, mortgage rates, consumer confidence, health care costs, housing affordability, housing inventory levels, a weakening of the national economy or of any regional or local economy in which we operate, changes in legislation and government policy and other factors beyond our control could adversely affect consumer spending, result in decreased demand for homes and adversely affect our business.. The homebuilding industry underwent a significant downturn that began in mid-2006 and began to stabilize in late 2011. The downturn in the homebuilding industry resulted in a substantial reduction in demand for our products and services, which in turn had a significant adverse effect on our business during fiscal years 2007 through 2012. The U.S. Census Bureau reported approximately 849,000 single-family housing starts for 2017, which is an increase of approximately 9% from 2016, but still well below historical averages over the past 50 years. There is significant uncertainty regarding the timing and extent of any continued recovery in construction and repair and remodeling activity and resulting product demand levels. The positive impact of a recovery on our business may also be dampened to the extent the average selling price or average size of new single family homes decreases, which could cause homebuilders to decrease spending on our products and services. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the average square footage of a new single family home start decreased by approximately 2% in 2016 compared to 2015, which was the first annual decrease in seven years. This trend has continued through the first three quarters of 2017. If conditions in the housing industry deteriorate, we may need to take goodwill and/or asset impairment charges. Any such non-cash charges would have an adverse effect on our financial results. In addition, in response to industry conditions, we may have to temporarily idle or permanently close certain facilities in under-performing regions. Any such facility closures could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. In addition, beginning in 2007, the mortgage markets experienced substantial disruption due to increased defaults, primarily as a result of credit quality deterioration. The disruption resulted in a stricter regulatory environment and reduced availability of mortgages for potential home buyers due to a tight credit market and stricter standards to qualify for mortgages. Mortgage financing and commercial credit for smaller homebuilders, as well as for the development of new residential lots, continue to be constrained. As the housing industry is dependent upon the economy as well as potential homebuyers' access to mortgage financing and homebuilders' access to commercial credit, prolonged constraint of the credit markets could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. Changes in our customer or product sales mix could affect our operating results.. Our operating results may vary according to the amount and type of products we sell to each of our primary customer types: new single-family homebuilders, remodeling contractors, and multi-family builders and light commercial builders. We tend to realize higher gross margins on sales to remodeling contractors due to the smaller product volumes purchased by those customers, as well as the more customized nature of the projects those customers generally undertake. Gross margins on sales to single-family, multi-family and light commercial customers can vary based on a variety of factors, including the purchase volumes of the individual customer, the mix of products sold to that customer, the size and selling price of the project being constructed and the number of upgrades added to the project before or during its construction.. We generate significant business from the large single-family homebuilders; however, our gross margins on sales to them tend to be lower than our gross margins on sales to other market segments. A shift in our sales mix towards the larger homebuilders could negatively impact our gross margins.. In addition, we typically realize greater gross margins on more highly engineered and customized products, or ancillary products that are often purchased based on convenience and are therefore less price sensitive to our customers. For example, sales of lumber & lumber sheet goods tend to generate lower gross margins due to their commodity nature and the relatively low switching costs of sourcing those products from different suppliers. Structural components and millwork, doors & windows often generate higher. 7. gross margins relative to other products. A shift in our sales mix towards the lumber & lumber sheet goods product category could negatively impact our gross margins.. We conduct a significant portion of our business in Texas, California and Georgia, which exposes us to the homebuilding activities within the markets of these states.. We presently conduct a significant portion of our business in Texas, California and Georgia, which represented approximately 33%, 13% and 12%, respectively, of 2017 total net sales. Sales activities in these markets and in most of the other markets in which we operate have declined from time to time, particularly as a result of slow economic growth. In the last several years, many of these markets have benefited from better than average employment growth, which has aided homebuilding activities, but we cannot assure you that these conditions will continue. Local economic conditions can depend on a variety of factors, including national economic conditions, local and state budget situations and the impact of cutbacks in federal spending and employment. In addition, the significant decline in oil prices in recent years may negatively impact home construction and remodeling activity in Texas (particularly in the Houston metropolitan area, which accounted for 11% of our 2017 total net sales) and other markets with significant employment in the energy sector. Such a reduction in construction and remodeling activities could negatively impact our operating results in those markets in the future. Additionally, our concentration in these markets increases our exposure to natural disasters and other events adversely impacting these markets. If homebuilding activity declines in one or more of the markets in which we operate, our costs may not decline at all or at the same rate and therefore may negatively impact our operating results.. Because our operations are currently concentrated in these areas, a prolonged economic downturn or localized adverse events in the future in one or more of these areas or a particular industry that is fundamental to one of these areas, particularly within Texas, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows, and a disproportionately greater impact on us than other lumber and building material companies with more diversified operations. To the extent the oil and gas industries, which can be very volatile, are negatively impacted by declining commodity prices, climate change, legislation or other factors, a result could be a reduction in employment, or other negative economic consequences, which in turn could adversely impact home sales and activities in Texas and certain of our other markets.. The loss of any of our significant customers or a reduction in the quantity of products they purchase could affect our financial health.. Our ten largest customers generated approximately 20% and 18% of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We cannot guarantee that we will maintain or improve our relationships with these customers or that we will continue to supply these customers at historical levels. Due to the weak housing market over the past several years in comparison to long-term averages, many of our homebuilder customers substantially reduced their construction activity. Some homebuilder customers exited or severely curtailed building activity in certain of our markets.. In addition, production homebuilders and other customers may: (i) seek to purchase some of the products that we currently sell directly from manufacturers; (ii) elect to establish their own building products manufacturing and distribution facilities or (iii) give advantages to manufacturing or distribution intermediaries in which they have an economic stake. Continued consolidation among production homebuilders could also result in a loss of some of our present customers to our competitors. The loss of one or more of our significant customers or deterioration in our relations with any of them could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Furthermore, our customers typically are not required to purchase any minimum amount of products from us. The contracts into which we have entered with most of our professional customers typically provide that we supply particular products or services for a certain period of time when and if ordered by the customer. Should our customers purchase our products in significantly lower quantities than they have in the past, such decreased purchases could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. The building products supply and services industry is seasonal and cyclical.. Our industry is seasonal. Although weather patterns affect our operating results throughout the year, our first and fourth quarters have historically been, and are generally expected to continue to be, adversely affected by weather patterns in some of our markets, causing reduced construction activity. To the extent that hurricanes, severe storms, earthquakes, floods, fires, droughts, other natural disasters or similar events occur in the markets in which we operate, our business may be adversely affected.. The building products supply and services industry is also subject to cyclical market pressures. Quarterly results historically have reflected, and are expected to continue to reflect, fluctuations from period to period arising from the following factors, among. 8. others: the volatility of lumber prices; the cyclical nature of the homebuilding industry; general economic conditions in the markets in which we compete; the pricing policies of our competitors and the production schedules of our customers.. Our industry is highly fragmented and competitive, and increased competitive pressure may adversely affect our results.. The building products supply and services industry is highly fragmented and competitive. We face significant competition from local, regional and national building materials chains, as well as from privately-owned single site enterprises. Any of these competitors may (i) foresee the course of market development more accurately than we do, (ii) provide superior service and sell superior products, (iii) have the ability to produce or supply similar products and services at a lower cost, (iv) develop stronger relationships with our customers, (v) adapt more quickly to new technologies or evolving customer requirements than we do or (vi) develop a superior branch network in our markets. As a result, we may not be able to compete successfully with them. In addition, home center retailers and/or eCommerce retailers, which have historically concentrated their sales efforts on retail consumers and small contractors, may in the future intensify their marketing efforts to professional homebuilders. Furthermore, certain product manufacturers sell and distribute their products directly to production homebuilders. The volume of such direct sales could increase in the future. Additionally, manufacturers and specialty distributors who sell products to us may elect to sell and distribute directly to homebuilders in the future or enter into exclusive supplier arrangements with other distributors. Consolidation of production homebuilders may result in increased competition for their business. Finally, we may not be able to maintain our operating costs or product prices at a level sufficiently low for us to compete effectively. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected.. Some of our competitors are larger than we are and have greater financial resources. These resources may afford those competitors greater purchasing power, increased financial flexibility and more capital resources for expansion and improvement.. Certain of our products are commodities and fluctuations in prices of these commodities could affect our operating results.. Many of the building products we distribute, including OSB, plywood, lumber and particleboard, are commodities that are widely available from other manufacturers or distributors with prices and volumes determined frequently based on participants' perceptions of short-term supply and demand factors. A shortage of capacity or excess capacity in the industry can result in significant increases or declines in market prices for those products, often within a short period of time.. Prices of commodity products can also change as a result of national and international economic conditions, labor and freight costs, competition, market speculation, government regulation and trade policies, as well as from periodic delays in the delivery of lumber and other products. Short-term changes in the cost of these materials, some of which are subject to significant fluctuations, are sometimes passed on to our customers but our pricing quotation periods and pricing pressure from our competitors may limit our ability to pass on such price changes. For example, we frequently enter into extended pricing commitments, which may compress our gross margins in periods of inflation. At times, the price at which we can charge our customers for any one or more products may even fall below the price at which we can purchase such products, requiring us to incur short-term losses on product sales. Excessive spikes in the market prices of certain building products, such as lumber, can also put negative pressure on our operating cash flows by requiring us to invest more in inventory. We may also be limited in our ability to pass on increases in freight costs on our products due to the price of fuel.. Some of our products are imported into the United States and may be subject to tariffs or import duties that may impact the price of the products and limit their availability. Furthermore, the ongoing trade dispute between the United States and Canada following the expiration of the Softwood Lumber Agreement in 2015 could lead to increased volatility in prices of softwood lumber imported from Canada. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we purchased between $250 million and $270 million of inventory from Canada.. Periods of generally increasing prices provide the opportunity for higher sales and increased gross profit (subject to the extended pricing commitments described above), while generally declining price environments may result in declines in sales and profitability. In particular, low market prices for wood products over a sustained period can adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows, as can excessive spikes in market prices. For the year ended December 31, 2017, average composite framing lumber prices and average composite structural panel prices (a composite calculation based on index prices for OSB and plywood) as reported by Random Lengths were approximately 19% and 18% higher, respectively, than the prior year. Our lumber & lumber sheet goods product category represented approximately 33% of net sales in 2017. If lumber or structural panel prices were to decline significantly from current levels, our sales and profits could be negatively affected.. 9. We are exposed to product liability, warranty, casualty, construction defect, contract, tort, employment and other claims and legal proceedings related to our business, products and services as well as services provided for us through third parties.. We are from time to time involved in product liability, warranty, casualty, construction defect, contract, tort, employment and other claims relating to our business, the products we manufacture, distribute or install, and services we provide, either directly or through third parties, that, if adversely determined, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows if we were unable to receive indemnification for such claims or were not adequately insured for such claims. We rely on manufacturers and other suppliers to provide us with many of the products we sell, distribute or install. Because we do not have direct control over the quality of such products manufactured or supplied by such third-party suppliers, we are exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products. In addition, we are exposed to potential claims arising from the conduct of our employees, homebuilders and their subcontractors, and third-party installers for which we may be liable. We and they are subject to regulatory requirements and risks applicable to general contractors, which include management of licensing, permitting and quality of our third-party installers. If we fail to manage these processes effectively or provide proper oversight of these services, we could suffer lost sales, fines and lawsuits, as well as damage to our reputation, which could adversely affect our business.. Product liability, warranty, casualty, construction defect, contract, tort, employment and other claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods, regardless of the ultimate outcome. Claims of this nature could also have a negative impact on customer confidence in our products and our Company. We cannot assure you that any current or future claims will not adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. We may be unable to maintain profitability or positive cash flows from operations.. We have set goals to progressively improve our profitability over time by growing our sales, increasing our gross margin and reducing our expenses as a percentage of sales. For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, we had net income of $57.4 million and $30.9 million, respectively, and for the year ended December 31, 2015, we had a net loss of $4.8 million. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, we had cash provided by operations of $93.9 million, $106.9 million, and $0.7 million, respectively. There can be no assurance that we will achieve our profitability goals or continue to generate positive cash flow from operations. Factors that could significantly adversely affect our efforts to achieve these goals include, but are not limited to, the failure to:. • grow our revenue through organic growth or through acquisitions;. • improve our revenue mix by investing (including through acquisitions) in businesses that provide higher gross margins than we have been able to generate historically;. • achieve improvements in purchasing or maintain or increase our rebates from suppliers through our supplier consolidation and/or low-cost country initiatives;. • improve our gross margins through the utilization of improved pricing practices and technology and sourcing savings;. • maintain or reduce our overhead and support expenses as we grow;. • effectively evaluate future inventory reserves;. • collect monies owed from customers;. • maintain relationships with our significant customers;. • integrate any businesses acquired; and. • continue to successfully integrate BMHC and SBS.. Any of these failures or delays may adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability.. Our continued success will depend on our ability to retain our key employees and to attract and retain new qualified employees, while controlling our labor costs.. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, hire, train and retain qualified managerial, operational, sales and other personnel, while at the same time controlling our labor costs. We face significant competition for these types of employees in our industry and from other industries. Labor shortages may impact our ability to hire skilled or unskilled workers with experience in carpentry, construction or fabrication. We may be unsuccessful in attracting and retaining the personnel we require to conduct and expand our operations successfully. In addition, key personnel, including sales force employees with key customer relationships, may leave us and compete against us.. Our success also depends to a significant extent on the continued service of our senior management team. Our officers and divisional vice presidents have experience in manufacturing, distribution, retail and homebuilding, and have been integral to our successful acquisition and integration of businesses to gain scale in our current markets. The loss of any member of our senior management. 10. team or other experienced, senior employees or sales force employees could impair our ability to execute our business plan, cause us to lose customers and reduce our net sales, or lead to employee morale problems and/or the loss of other key employees. In any such event, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected.. On January 10, 2018, we announced that Peter C. Alexander was leaving the Company under mutual agreement, effective immediately, and would be replaced by David Keltner, a member of the Board of Directors, as interim President and Chief Executive Officer while the Board conducts a search for a permanent replacement. Any change in senior management involves significant inherent risk, and any failure to identify a suitable replacement or maintain a smooth transition process could hinder our strategic planning, execution and future performance. While we endeavor to minimize any negative impact associated with changes such as these, there may be uncertainty among investors, employees and others regarding our future direction and performance. Any disruption in our operations, uncertainty regarding our future or negative public perception regarding the change could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. Our ability to control labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including prevailing wage rates, the impact of legislation or regulations governing wages, regulations governing payment of workers on a \"piece-work\" or \"piece-rate\" basis, labor relations, healthcare benefits, and health and other insurance costs. In addition, we compete with other companies for many of our employees in hourly and piece-rate positions, and we invest significant resources in training and motivating them to maintain a high level of job satisfaction. These positions have historically had high turnover rates, which can lead to increased training and retention costs. If we are unable to attract or retain highly qualified employees in the future, it could adversely impact our operating results.. Product shortages, loss of key suppliers or failure to develop relationships with qualified suppliers, and our dependence on third-party suppliers and manufacturers could affect our financial health.. Our ability to offer a wide variety of products to our customers is dependent upon our ability to obtain adequate product supply from manufacturers and other suppliers. Generally, our products are obtainable from various sources and in sufficient quantities. Our ability to continue to identify and develop relationships with qualified suppliers who can satisfy our high standards for quality and our need to access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge. Our ability to access products also can be adversely affected by the financial instability of suppliers (particularly in light of continuing economic difficulties in various regions of the United States and the world), suppliers' noncompliance with applicable laws, tariffs and import duties, supply disruptions, shipping interruptions or costs, and other factors beyond our control. The loss of, or a substantial decrease in the availability of, products from our suppliers or the loss of key supplier arrangements could adversely impact our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. Although in many instances we have agreements with our suppliers, these agreements are generally terminable by either party on limited notice. Many of our suppliers also offer us favorable terms based on the volume of our purchases. If market conditions change, suppliers may stop offering us favorable terms. Failure by our suppliers to continue to supply us with products on favorable terms, commercially reasonable terms, or at all, could put pressure on our operating margins or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. A portion of the workforces of many of our suppliers, particularly our foreign suppliers, are represented by labor unions. Workforce disputes at these suppliers may result in work stoppages or slowdowns. Such disruptions could have a material adverse effect on these suppliers ability to continue meeting our needs.. The implementation of our supply chain and technology initiatives could disrupt our operations, and these initiatives might not provide the anticipated benefits or might fail.. We have made, and we plan to continue to make, significant investments in our supply chain and technology. These initiatives are designed to streamline our operations to allow our employees to continue to provide high quality service to our customers, while simplifying customer interaction and providing our customers with a more interconnected purchasing experience. The cost and potential problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of these initiatives, including those associated with managing third-party service providers and employing new web-based tools and services, could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations. In the event that we grow very rapidly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to keep up, expand or adapt our IT infrastructure to meet evolving demand on a timely basis and at a commercially reasonable cost, or at all. In addition, our improved supply chain and new or upgraded technology might not provide the anticipated benefits, it might take longer than expected to realize the anticipated benefits or the initiatives might fail altogether.. 11. We occupy many of our facilities under long-term non-cancellable leases. If we close a facility, we are still obligated under the applicable lease. We may be unable to renew leases at the end of their terms.. Many of our facilities are located in leased premises. Many of our current leases are non-cancellable and typically have initial terms ranging from five to ten years, and most provide options to renew for specified periods of time. We believe that leases we enter into in the future will likely be long-term and non-cancellable and have similar renewal options. If we close or idle a facility, most likely we remain committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease, which would include, among other things, payment of the base rent, insurance, taxes and other expenses on the leased property for the balance of the lease term. The inability to terminate leases when idling a facility or exiting a geographic market can have a significant adverse impact on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. In addition, at the end of the lease term and any renewal period for a facility, we may be unable to renew the lease without substantial additional cost, if at all. If we are unable to renew our facility leases, we may close or relocate a facility, which could subject us to construction and other costs and risks, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. In addition, we may not be able to secure a replacement facility in a location that is as commercially viable, including access to rail service, as the lease we are unable to renew. For example, closing a facility, even during the time of relocation, will reduce the sales that the facility would have contributed to our revenues. Additionally, the revenue and profit, if any, generated at a relocated facility may not equal the revenue and profit generated at the existing one.. We may be unable to effectively manage our inventory and working capital as our sales volume increases, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. We purchase certain materials, including lumber products, which are then sold to customers as well as used as direct production inputs for our manufactured and prefabricated products. We must maintain, and have adequate working capital to purchase, sufficient inventory to meet customer demand. Due to the lead times required by our suppliers, we order products in advance of expected sales. This requires us to forecast our sales and purchases accordingly. In periods of growth, it can be especially difficult to forecast sales accurately. We must also manage our working capital to fund our inventory purchases. In the future, if we are unable to manage effectively our inventory and working capital as we attempt to grow our business, our cash flows may be negatively affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. The majority of our net sales are credit sales that are made primarily to customers whose ability to pay is dependent, in part, upon the economic strength of the industry and geographic areas in which they operate, and the failure to collect or timely collect monies owed from customers could adversely affect us.. The majority of our net sales volume in fiscal 2017 was facilitated through the extension of credit to our customers whose ability to pay is dependent, in part, upon the economic strength of the industry in the areas where they operate. We offer credit to customers, either through unsecured credit that is based solely upon the creditworthiness of the customer, or secured credit for materials sold for a specific job where the security lies in lien rights associated with the material going into the job. The type of credit offered depends both on the financial strength of the customer and the nature of the business in which the customer is involved. End users, resellers and other non-contractor customers generally purchase more on unsecured credit than secured credit. During the housing downturn, several of our homebuilder customers defaulted on amounts owed to us or extended their payable days as a result of their financial condition. The inability of our customers to pay off their credit lines in a timely manner, or at all, would adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Furthermore, our collections efforts with respect to non-paying or slow-paying customers could negatively impact our customer relations going forward.. Because we depend on the creditworthiness of certain of our customers, if the financial condition of our customers declines, our credit risk could increase. Significant contraction in our markets, coupled with tightened credit availability and financial institution underwriting standards, could adversely affect certain of our customers. Should one or more of our larger customers declare bankruptcy as has occurred in the past, it could adversely affect the collectability of our accounts receivable, bad debt reserves and net income.. We are subject to competitive pricing pressure from our customers.. Production homebuilders historically have exerted significant pressure on their outside suppliers to keep prices low because of their market share and ability to leverage such market share in the highly fragmented building products supply and services industry. The housing industry downturn resulted in significantly increased pricing pressures from production homebuilders and other customers. Continued consolidation among homebuilders, and changes in homebuilders' purchasing policies or payment practices,. 12. could result in additional pricing pressure which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. We may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer needs, expectations, market conditions or trends, which could adversely affect our relationship with customers, the demand for our products and services and our market share.. It is difficult to predict successfully the products and services our customers will demand. The success of our business depends in part on our ability to identify and respond promptly to changes in demographics, consumer preferences, expectations, needs and weather conditions, while also managing inventory levels. For example, an increased consumer focus on making homes energy efficient could require us to offer more energy efficient building materials and there can be no assurance that we would be able to identify appropriate suppliers on acceptable terms. Failure to identify timely or effectively respond to changing consumer preferences, expectations and building product needs could adversely affect our relationship with customers, the demand for our products and services and our market share.. Because we cannot immediately adapt our production capacity and related cost structures to rapidly changing market conditions, when demand is below our expectations, our manufacturing capacity will likely exceed our production requirements. If, during a general market upturn or an upturn in one of our geographic markets, we cannot increase our manufacturing capacity to meet product demand, we will not be able to fulfill orders in a timely manner, which could lead to order cancellations, contract breaches or indemnification obligations. This inability could materially and adversely limit our ability to improve our results. By contrast, if during an economic downturn we had excess manufacturing capacity, then our fixed costs associated with excess manufacturing capacity could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. We may be unable to successfully implement our growth strategy, which includes pursuing strategic acquisitions and opening new facilities.. Our long-term business plan provides for continued growth through strategic acquisitions and organic growth through the construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities. Failure to identify and acquire suitable acquisition candidates on acceptable terms could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy. Moreover, our reduced operating results during the housing downturn, our liquidity position or the requirements of the Credit Agreement could prevent us from obtaining the capital required to effect new acquisitions or expansions of existing facilities. Our failure to make successful acquisitions or to build or expand facilities, including manufacturing facilities, produce saleable product or meet customer demand in a timely manner could result in damage to or loss of customer relationships, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. Federal, state, local and other regulations could impose substantial costs and/or restrictions on our operations that would reduce our net income.. We are subject to various federal, state, local and other regulations, including, among other things, regulations promulgated by the DOT, work safety regulations promulgated by OSHA, employment regulations promulgated by the United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, regulations of the United States Department of Labor, federal and state environmental regulations, and state and local zoning restrictions, building codes and contractors' licensing regulations. More burdensome regulatory requirements in these or other areas may increase our general and administrative costs and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Moreover, failure to comply with the regulatory requirements applicable to our business could expose us to litigation and/or substantial penalties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. Our transportation operations are subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the DOT. The DOT has broad administrative powers with respect to our transportation operations. More restrictive limitations on vehicle weight and size, trailer length and configuration, or driver hours of service would increase our costs, which, if we are unable to pass these cost increases on to our customers, may increase our selling, general and administrative expenses and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. If we fail to comply adequately with DOT regulations or regulations become more stringent, we could experience increased inspections, regulatory authorities could take remedial action including imposing fines or shutting down our operations or we could be subject to increased audit and compliance costs. If any of these events were to occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected.. In addition, the homebuilding industry is subject to various local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, codes, rules and regulations concerning zoning, building design and safety, construction, energy conservation, environmental protection and similar matters, including regulations that impose restrictive zoning and density requirements on our business or that limit the number of homes. 13. that can be built within the boundaries of a particular area. Regulatory restrictions may increase our operating expenses and limit the availability of suitable building lots for our customers, which could negatively affect our sales and earnings.. Changes in legislation and government policy may have a material adverse effect on us.. The 2016 presidential and congressional elections in the United States have resulted in uncertainty with respect to, and could result in significant changes in, legislation and government policy. The 2018 midterm elections could add to this uncertainty. Specific legislative and regulatory proposals discussed during and after the election that could have a material impact on us include, but are not limited to, modifications to international trade policy and increased regulation related to the employment of foreign workers.. Immigration reform and enforcement continues to attract significant attention in the public arena, the United States Congress and at the state and local levels. We rely in part on a seasonal workforce which requires specific types of visas to enter the United States. If new or more restrictive immigration legislation is enacted at the federal level or in states in which we do business, or if existing regulations are interpreted or enforced differently, these changes could make it more difficult or costly for us to hire United States citizens and/or legal immigrant workers. In such case, we may incur additional costs to run our business, including to find and hire replacement workers, or may have to change the way we conduct our operations, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (\"2017 Tax Act\") was enacted during December 2017, which, among other provisions, limits mortgage interest and state and local tax deductions, including property taxes and state income taxes, which may affect demand for new homes. The limitation on state and local tax deductions may have a greater impact in high tax states such as California, which accounted for approximately 13% of our 2017 net sales. Future changes in federal income tax laws may also affect demand for new homes. From time to time, various proposals are discussed, which, if enacted, may have an adverse effect on the homebuilding industry in general. No meaningful prediction can be made as to whether any such proposals will be enacted and, if enacted, the particular form such laws would take. Because we have substantial fixed costs, relatively modest declines in our customers' production levels could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions, the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our financial performance.. We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States. We are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. We regularly assess the likely outcome of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcome of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of audits could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and therefore could have a material impact on our tax provision, net income and cash flows. In addition, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws,  and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation.. As of December 31, 2017, we had a net deferred tax liability of $1.8 million. The carrying value of our deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the United States. Future changes in tax legislation could have a significant adverse effect on our tax rate or the carrying value of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. Any of these changes could affect our financial performance.. 14. We may not be able to utilize certain of our net operating loss carryforwards, which could harm our profitability.. We have net operating loss (\"NOL\") carryforwards to reduce future taxable income. Utilization of our NOL carryforwards may be subject to a substantial limitation under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (\"Section 382\"), and comparable provisions of state tax laws, due to changes in ownership of our company that may occur in the future. Under Section 382 and comparable provisions of state tax laws, if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change,\" generally defined as a greater than 50% change by value in its equity ownership over a three-year period, the corporation's ability to carry forward its pre-change net operating losses to reduce its post-change income may be limited. We may experience ownership changes in the future as a result of future changes in our stock ownership. As a result, our ability to use our pre-change NOL carryforwards to reduce U.S. federal and state taxable income we produce in the future years may be subject to limitations, which could result in increased future tax liability to us.. We may be adversely affected by any natural or man-made disruptions to our distribution and manufacturing facilities.. We currently maintain a broad network of distribution and manufacturing facilities throughout the eastern, southern and western United States. Any widespread disruption to our facilities resulting from fire, earthquake, hurricanes and other weather-related events, an act of terrorism, labor disputes, supply chain disruptions or any other cause could damage a significant portion of our inventory and could materially impair our ability to manufacture and distribute our products to customers. We could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our customers during the time that it takes for us to reopen or replace a damaged facility. In addition, any shortages of fuel or significant fuel cost increases could disrupt our ability to distribute products to our customers. Disruptions to the national or local transportation infrastructure systems may also affect our ability to keep our operations and services functioning properly. If any of these events were to occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. We are subject to exposure to environmental liabilities and are subject to environmental regulation.. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances, rules and regulations, including those promulgated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency and analogous state agencies. As current and former owners, lessees and operators of real property, we can be held liable for the investigation or remediation of contamination at or from such properties, in some circumstances irrespective of whether we knew of or caused such contamination. No assurance can be provided that investigation and remediation will not be required in the future as a result of spills or releases of petroleum products or hazardous substances, the discovery of currently unknown environmental conditions, more stringent standards regarding existing contamination, or changes in legislation, laws, ordinances, rules or regulations or their interpretation or enforcement. More burdensome environmental regulatory requirements may increase our costs and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. We are subject to health and safety laws and regulations and any failure to comply with any current or future laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on us.. Manufacturing and building sites are inherently dangerous workplaces. Our work sites often put our employees and others in close proximity with large pieces of mechanized equipment, moving vehicles, manufacturing processes, and heavy products. As a result, we are subject to a variety of health and safety laws and regulations dealing with occupational health and safety. Unsafe work sites have the potential to increase employee turnover and raise our operating costs. Our safety record can also impact our reputation. We maintain functional groups whose primary purpose is to ensure we implement effective work procedures throughout our organization and take other steps to ensure the health and safety of our work force, but there can be no assurances these measures will be successful in preventing injuries or violations of health and safety laws and regulations. Any failure to maintain safe work sites or violations of applicable law could expose us to significant financial losses and reputational harm, as well as civil and criminal liabilities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. We may be adversely affected by any disruption in our information technology systems.. Our operations are dependent upon our IT systems, which encompass all of our major business functions. A substantial disruption in our IT systems for any prolonged time period (arising from, for example, system capacity limits from unexpected increases in our volume of business, outages, computer viruses, unauthorized access or delays in our service) could result in delays in receiving inventory and supplies or filling customer orders and adversely affect our customer service and relationships. Our systems might be damaged or interrupted by natural or man-made events or by computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, or similar disruptions affecting the global Internet. Such delays, problems or costs may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. 15. We are subject to cybersecurity risks that could adversely affect us, and we may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize those risks.. Our business relies on systems, including those of third parties with whom we do business, and a website that involve the storage and transmission of customers' and employees' personal and proprietary information. Our systems and those of third parties with whom we do business have been, and will likely continue to be, subjected to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access attempts and cyber-attacks that include phishing-attacks, denial-of-service attacks, ransomware, malware and hacking. Breach of our systems or those of third parties with whom we do business could compromise our confidential information and that of our customers or employees, impede or interrupt our business operations, and may result in other negative consequences, including remediation costs, loss of revenue, litigation, significant legal and financial exposure, loss of intellectual property and reputational damage.. To date, we have not experienced a material breach of cybersecurity. As cyber-attacks become more sophisticated generally, and as we implement changes giving customers greater electronic access to our systems, we may be required to incur significant costs to strengthen our systems from outside intrusions and/or maintain insurance coverage related to the threat of such attacks. Further, the regulatory environment related to information security and privacy is increasingly rigorous, with new and constantly changing requirements applicable to our business and those of third parties with whom we do business, and compliance with those requirements could result in additional costs. Despite our efforts, we may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber-attacks on our systems or those of the third parties with whom we do business. While we have implemented administrative and technical controls such as web filtering, endpoint and storage area network antivirus scanning and isolation, next-generation firewalls, a secure email gateway and mobile device administration, purchased cyber insurance coverage and taken other preventive actions to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and protect our IT, these measures, and other measures we may take in the future, can be expensive, and may be insufficient, circumvented or may become ineffective. Any of the foregoing risks and increased costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. Insufficient insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on us.. We carry insurance for general liability, auto liability and workers' compensation exposures subject to deductibles and/or self-insured retentions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, and we self-insure for employee and eligible dependent health care claims, with insurance purchased from independent carriers to cover individual claims in excess of the self-insured limits. However, our insurance program does not cover, or may not adequately cover, every potential risk associated with our business and the consequences thereof. In addition, market conditions or any significant claim or a number of claims made by or against us could cause our premiums and deductibles to increase substantially and, in some instances, our coverage may be reduced or become entirely unavailable. In the future, we may not be able to obtain meaningful coverage at reasonable rates for a variety of risks, including certain types of environmental hazards and ongoing regulatory compliance. If our insurance coverage is insufficient, if we are not able to obtain sufficient coverage in the future, or if we are exposed to significant losses as a result of the risks for which we self-insure, any resulting costs or liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. Operation on multiple ERP information systems, and the conversion from multiple systems to a single system, may negatively impact our operations.. The Company currently operates on multiple ERP systems, which we use for operations representing virtually all of our sales. Certain of our ERP systems are proprietary systems that have been highly customized by our computer programmers. We rely upon our ERP systems to manage and replenish inventory, to fill and ship customer orders on a timely basis, to coordinate our sales and distribution activities across all of our products and services and to provide information for financial reporting purposes.. Processing, consolidating and reconciling information from multiple ERP systems increases the chance of error, and we may incur significant additional costs related thereto. Inconsistencies in the information from multiple ERP systems could adversely impact our ability to manage our business efficiently and may result in heightened risk to our ability to maintain accurate books and records and comply with regulatory requirements.. During 2016 and 2017, the Company implemented the ERP system utilized by Legacy SBS (\"the Legacy SBS ERP system\") at certain Legacy BMHC and newly acquired locations. If the remaining implementation of the Legacy SBS ERP system across Legacy BMHC and newly acquired operations is not executed successfully, this could result in business interruptions and loss of customers. If we do not complete the remaining implementation timely and successfully, we may also incur additional costs. 16. associated with this project and a delay in our ability to improve existing operations, to support future growth and to take advantage of new applications and technologies.. Such projects are inherently complex, resource intensive, and lengthy. As a result, we could experience unplanned or unforeseen issues that could adversely affect the project, our business or our results of operations, including:. • costs of implementation that materially exceed our expectations;. • diversion of management's attention away from normal daily business operations;. • risk of incurring asset impairment charges, accelerated depreciation expense or other charges related to the early retirement of information system assets or the early termination of information system supplier agreements;. • increased demand on our operations support personnel;. • delays in the go-live of one or more of the stages of the project, resulting in additional costs or time for completion;. • errors in implementation resulting in errors in the commencement or reporting of business transactions;. • failure in the deliverables of our key partners, suppliers and implementation advisors, resulting in an inferior product, reduced business efficacy and the project not providing expected benefits;. • loss of sales or customers as a result of errors in business transactions or delays in providing products or services;. • deficiencies in the training of employees in the use of the new solution, resulting in errors in the recording of data or transactions, leading to delays in input deliveries and production impairment;. • a control failure during or post implementation, which may result in a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting; and. • other implementation issues leading to delays and impacts on our business.. Any of the foregoing could materially and negatively impact our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or the industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our indebtedness.. As of December 31, 2017, our total debt was $377.3 million, which includes obligations under the senior secured notes due 2024 (the \"Senior Notes\") and our revolving credit facility (excluding unamortized debt issuance costs), as well as obligations under capital leases and certain other notes. This leverage could have important consequences, including: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; requiring us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts, and other general corporate purposes; increasing our vulnerability to and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as borrowings under certain of our indebtedness are subject to variable rates of interest; placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and limiting our ability to borrow additional funds.. We are substantially reliant on liquidity provided by our Second Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Agreement (the \"Credit Agreement\") and cash on hand to provide working capital and fund our operations. Our working capital and capital expenditure requirements are likely to grow as the housing market improves and we execute our strategic growth plan. Economic and credit market conditions, the performance of the homebuilding industry, and our financial performance, as well as other factors, may constrain our financing abilities. Our ability to secure additional financing, if available, and to satisfy our financial obligations under indebtedness outstanding from time to time will depend upon our future operating performance, the availability of credit, economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.. We may be unable to secure additional financing or financing on favorable terms or our operating cash flow may be insufficient to satisfy our financial obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of additional equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders may experience significant dilution. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future, including collateralized debt, subject to the restrictions contained in the Credit Agreement and Indenture. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify.. 17. The Credit Agreement and Indenture contain various covenants that could limit our ability to operate our business.. The Credit Agreement and Indenture governing our senior notes (the \"Indenture\") place limitations on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things, incur debt, create other liens on its assets, make investments, sell assets, pay dividends, undertake transactions with affiliates, enter into merger transactions and enter into unrelated businesses. The Credit Agreement also contains a financial covenant requiring us and our subsidiaries to maintain a Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio, as defined therein, of at least 1.00:1.00 at the end of any fiscal quarter during the period from the date that Excess Availability, as defined therein, under the Credit Agreement is less than or equal to the greater of (1) $33.3 million and (2) 10.0% of the Line Cap under the Credit Agreement until the date that Excess Availability has been greater than the greater of (i) $33.3 million and (ii) 10.0% of the Line Cap for a period of at least 30 consecutive days. The Credit Agreement and Indenture also contain various customary representations and warranties, financial and collateral reporting requirements and other affirmative and negative covenants. Amounts owed under the Credit Agreement and Indenture may be accelerated and the lenders may exercise other remedies available to them upon the occurrence of various events of default set forth in the Credit Agreement and Indenture, including the failure to make principal or interest payments when due, breaches of covenants, representations and warranties set forth in the Credit Agreement and Indenture and defaults under other debt obligations. Acceleration of amounts owed under the Credit Agreement or the Indenture, or the exercise of other remedies available to holders of our debt, could materially and negatively impact our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly.. Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent you from being able to sell your shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid for them. The market price for our common stock could fluctuate significantly for various reasons, including but not limited to:. • our operating and financial performance and prospects;. • our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry;. • the public's reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC;. • changes in, or failure to meet, earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who track our common stock or the stock of other companies in our industry;. • changes in the frequency of coverage or the failure of research analysts to cover, or downgrades in analyst recommendations regarding, our common stock;. • general economic, industry and market conditions;. • strategic actions by us, our customers or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings;. • sales of common stock by us or members of our management team;. • the granting or exercise of employee stock options or other equity compensation;. • volume of trading in our common stock; and. • the impact of the factors described elsewhere in \"Risk Factors.\". In addition, in recent years, the stock market has regularly experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. The changes have at times occurred without regard to the operating performance of the affected companies. Hence, the price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with us and these fluctuations could materially impact our share price.. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock.. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Instead, we intend to retain future earnings to fund our growth. In addition, our existing indebtedness restricts, and we anticipate our future indebtedness may restrict, our ability to pay dividends. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our Board and will depend upon many factors, including our financial condition, operating results, projections, cash flows, earnings, legal requirements, restrictions in our indebtedness and agreements governing any other indebtedness we may enter into and other factors that our Board deems relevant. Accordingly, holders of our common stock may need to sell their shares to realize a return on their investment, and may not be able to sell their shares at or above the price paid for them.. 18. Future sales of our common stock, or the perception in the public markets that these sales may occur, may depress our stock price.. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional shares.. There are 5.6 million shares authorized for issuance under the Stock Building Supply Holdings, Inc. 2013 Incentive Compensation Plan (\"SBS 2013 Incentive Plan\"), all of which are registered. As of January 31, 2018, approximately 3.4 million of these shares were available for issuance, not including shares underlying outstanding unvested restricted stock awards and restricted stock units (\"RSUs\") and outstanding vested and unvested stock options. In addition, as of January 31, 2018, there were issued and outstanding approximately (i) 0.1 million shares of nonvested stock, (ii) 0.7 million RSUs that convert into common stock upon vesting, and (iii) 0.7 million options for the purchase of common stock under the SBS 2013 Incentive Plan. Upon vesting, conversion or exercise as applicable, such registered shares can be freely sold in the public market. If a large number of these shares are sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock.. Our future operating results may fluctuate significantly and our current operating results may not be a good indication of our future performance. Fluctuations in our financial results could affect our stock price in the future.. Our revenues and operating results have historically varied from period-to-period and we expect that they will continue to do so as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Any volatility in our financial results may make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future or pursue acquisitions that involve issuances of our stock. Our operating results for prior periods may not be effective predictors of future performance.. Factors associated with our industry, the operation of our business and the markets for our products and services may cause our quarterly financial results to fluctuate, including:. • the seasonal and cyclical nature of the homebuilding industry;. • the highly competitive nature of our industry;. • the volatility of prices, availability and affordability of raw materials, including lumber, wood products and other building products;. • shortages of skilled and technical labor, increased labor costs and labor disruptions;. • the production schedules of our customers;. • general economic conditions, including but not limited to housing starts, repair and remodeling activity and light commercial construction, inventory levels of new and existing homes for sale, foreclosure rates, interest rates, unemployment rates, relative currency values, mortgage availability and pricing, as well as other consumer financing mechanisms, that ultimately affect demand for our products;. • actions of suppliers, customers and competitors, including merger and acquisition activities, plant closures and financial failures;. • litigation, claims and investigations involving us;. • the financial condition and creditworthiness of our customers;. • cost of compliance with government laws and regulations;. • weather patterns; and. • severe weather phenomena such as drought, hurricanes, tornadoes and fire.. Any one of the factors above or the cumulative effect of some of the factors referred to above may result in significant fluctuations in our financial and other operating results, including fluctuations in our key metrics. The variability and unpredictability could result in our failing to meet our internal operating plan or the expectations of securities analysts or investors for any period. This volatility could cause the market price of our shares to fall substantially and we could face costly lawsuits, including securities class action suits.. Certain provisions of our organizational documents and other contractual provisions may make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our Board of Directors and may discourage hostile takeover attempts.. Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if our Board determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of us and our stockholders. The provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws include, among other things, the following:. • a classified Board with three-year staggered terms;. 19. • the ability of our Board, without stockholder approval, to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms, including preferences and voting rights, of those shares without stockholder approval;. • stockholder action can only be taken at a special or regular meeting and not by written consent;. • advance notice procedures for nominating candidates to our Board or presenting matters at stockholder meetings;. • removal of directors only for cause;. • allowing only our Board to fill vacancies on our Board; and. • super-majority voting requirements to amend our amended and restated bylaws and certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation (the \"Charter\").. Our Charter opts us out of being subject to Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the \"DGCL\"), an anti-takeover law. In general, Section 203 of the DGCL prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination, such as a merger, with a person or group owning 15% or more of the corporation's voting stock for a period of three years following the date the person became an interested stockholder, unless (with certain exceptions) the business combination or the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder is approved in a prescribed manner. However, our Charter contains anti-takeover provisions that are substantially similar in effect to Section 203 of the DGCL. The anti-takeover provisions in the Charter prohibit us from engaging in a business combination, such as a merger, with a person or group owning 15% or more of our voting stock for a period of three years following the date the person became an interested stockholder, unless (with certain exceptions) the business combination or the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder is approved in a prescribed manner. The Charter includes specified exceptions from anti-takeover provisions, which provide that (i) in certain circumstances (as described below), Davidson Kempner Capital Management LP, The Gores Group, LLC and their respective affiliates or associates (the \"Grandfathered Stockholders\"), and (ii) any person who would otherwise be an interested stockholder because of a transfer, assignment, conveyance, hypothecation, encumbrance or other disposition of 5% or more of our outstanding voting stock by any Grandfathered Stockholder to such person will be excluded from the \"interested stockholder\" definition in the Charter. At any time during the period beginning on the closing date of the Merger and ending on the third anniversary thereof, each Grandfathered Stockholder is permitted to own any amount less than 20% of our outstanding voting stock and will not be deemed an interested stockholder unless such Grandfathered Stockholder's ownership level meets or exceeds 20% of our outstanding voting stock during such three-year period. From and after the third anniversary of the closing date of the Merger, each Grandfathered Stockholder is permitted to continue owning its respective ownership amount that it owns, together with its affiliates and associates, on such anniversary and will not be deemed an interested stockholder unless such Grandfathered Stockholder's ownership level later exceeds such ownership amount of our outstanding voting stock. Moreover, each Grandfathered Stockholder, together with its affiliates and associates, may reduce its ownership amount at any time from and after the third anniversary of the effective time of the Merger; provided that, if such Grandfathered Stockholder reduces its ownership amount below the ownership amount of such Grandfathered Stockholder that exists on the third anniversary of the effective time of the Merger, such Grandfathered Stockholder may not increase its ownership amount above such reduced amount; provided, further, that if such Grandfathered Stockholder reduces its ownership amount below 15% of our outstanding voting stock after the third anniversary of the effective time of the Merger, such Grandfathered Stockholder may own any amount of voting stock below 15% of our outstanding voting stock, in the case of each of the foregoing provisos, without being deemed an interested stockholder.. While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of us to negotiate with our Board, they could enable the Board to hinder or frustrate a transaction that some, or a majority, of the stockholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors.. These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our Board, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management.. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on us and our stock price.. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud will be detected. Therefore, our internal control over financial reporting will not prevent or detect all errors and all fraud.. Ensuring that the Company has adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be reevaluated frequently. Implementing appropriate changes to the internal controls of the Company may take a significant period of time to complete, may distract directors, officers and employees, and may entail substantial costs in order to modify existing accounting systems.. 20. Additionally, the Company may experience material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in its internal control over financial reporting in the future. Any failure to maintain internal control over financial reporting could severely inhibit the Company's ability to accurately report its cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. If the Company is unable to conclude that its internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if its independent registered public accounting firm determines the Company has a material weakness or significant deficiency in its internal control over financial reporting, the Company could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of its financial reports, the market price of its common stock could decline and the Company could be subject to sanctions or investigations by Nasdaq, the SEC or other regulatory authorities. Failure to remedy any material weakness in the Company's internal control over financial reporting, or to implement or maintain other effective control systems required of public companies, could also restrict its future access to the capital markets and negatively impact the price and trading market for our common stock.. Our Charter includes an exclusive forum clause, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us.. Our Charter provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action brought on behalf of the Company, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owned by any director, officer or other employee of the Company to the Company or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL, our Charter or our bylaws or (iv) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock is deemed to have notice of and consented to the foregoing provisions. The exclusive forum clause may limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us. It is also possible that, notwithstanding such exclusive forum clause, a court could rule that such a provision is inapplicable or unenforceable.. We are a holding company and depend on the cash flow of our subsidiaries.. We are a holding company with no material assets other than the equity interests of our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries conduct substantially all of our operations and own substantially all of our assets. Consequently, our cash flow and our ability to meet our obligations and pay any future dividends to our stockholders depends upon the cash flow of our subsidiaries and their ability to make payments, directly or indirectly, to us in the form of dividends, distributions and other payments. Any inability on the part of our subsidiaries to make payments to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations."
