[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this report on Form 10-K, including our accompanying consolidated financial statements and the related notes, before deciding whether to purchase shares of our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. The price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Business. A significant portion of our revenue is dependent on our relationships with our venue and network partners, and if these relationships are impaired or terminated, or if our partners do not perform as expected, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. We depend on our relationships with venue partners, particularly key venue partners and military bases, in order to manage and operate DAS, small cell, and Wi-Fi networks. These relationships generate a significant portion of our revenue and allow us to generate wholesale revenues and new military and retail customers. Our agreements with our venue partners, telecom operators, and wholesale customers are for defined periods and of varying durations. In order to maintain our relationships with venue partners, we may need to upgrade our networks or make other changes to our products and services we provide such venue partners, which would require significantly higher initial capital expenditures than we have historically incurred, and if we are unsuccessful, our relationships could be impaired. If our venue partners terminate or fail to renew these agreements, our ability to generate and retain wholesale, military and retail customers would be diminished, which might result in a significant disruption of our business and adversely affect our operating results. Further, any delays in our ability to complete the upgrade of our networks or build-out new networks can adversely affect our operating results.. We depend on our relationships with network partners to allow users to roam across networks that we do not manage or operate. A significant portion of our revenue depends on maintaining these relationships with network partners. Some network partners may compete with us for retail customers and may decide to terminate our partnerships and instead develop competing retail products and services. Our network partner agreements are for defined periods and of varying durations. If our network partners terminate these agreements, or fail to renew these agreements, our ability to retain retail customers could be diminished and our network reach could be reduced, which could result in a significant disruption of our business and adversely affect our operating results.. Our operating results may fluctuate unexpectedly, which makes them difficult to predict and may cause us to fail to meet the expectations of investors, adversely affecting our stock price.. We operate in a highly dynamic industry and our future quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. Our revenue and operating results may vary from quarter-to-quarter due to many factors, many of which are not within our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. Further, it is difficult to accurately forecast our revenue, margin and operating results, and if we fail to match our expected results or the results expected by financial analysts, the trading price of our common stock may be adversely affected.. Factors that contribute to fluctuations in our operating results from quarter-to-quarter include those described in this risk factor section including:. <U+0095> our gain or loss of a key venue partner, military partner, or wholesale partner;    <U+0095> the rate at which individuals adopt and continue to use our solutions;. 12. Table of Contents. <U+0095> the timing and success of new technology introductions by us or our competitors;    <U+0095> the number of air travel passengers;    <U+0095> the growing prevalence of free Wi-Fi models and our ability to adapt and compete with free Wi-Fi;    <U+0095> intellectual property disputes; and    <U+0095> general economic conditions in our domestic and foreign markets.. Due to these and other factors, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our historical operating results should not be relied upon as accurate indicators of our future performance.. Our business depends upon demand for connected services that rely on wireless network infrastructure. Our ability to adapt to the speed of changes and anticipate market adoption of new technologies may adversely impact our business.. Our future success depends upon growing demand for wireless connected services. The demand for wireless connectivity may decrease or may grow more slowly than expected. Any such decrease in the demand or slowing rate of growth could have a material adverse effect on our business. The continued demand for wireless connectivity services depends on the continued proliferation of smartphones, tablets and other wireless connection enabled devices. Our revenue is derived from the demand from consumers for internet connectivity, including our military and retails offerings, and from our telecom, venue and other wholesale partners attempting to provide consumers with greater connectivity. We may face challenges as we seek to increase the revenue generated from the usage on smartphones, tablets and other wireless connected devices.. A portion of our business depends on the continued integration of Wi-Fi as a standard feature in wireless connected devices. If Wi-Fi ceases to be a standard feature in wireless connected devices, or if the rate of integration of Wi-Fi on devices decreases or is slower than expected, the market for our services may be substantially diminished.. Competing technologies pose a risk to the continued use of Wi-Fi as a mobile wireless connectivity technology. The introduction and market acceptance of emerging wireless technologies such as 4G/LTE, 5G, LTE-U and Super Wi-Fi, could cause significant disruption to our Wi-Fi business, which may result in a loss of customers, users and revenue. If users find emerging wireless technologies to be sufficiently fast, convenient or cost effective, we may not be able to compete effectively, and our ability to attract or retain users will be impaired. Additionally, one or more of our partners may deploy emerging wireless technologies that could reduce the partner's need to work with us, and may result in significant loss of revenue and reduction of the Wi-Fi hotspots in our network.. We deliver value to our users by providing simple access to Wi-Fi hotspots, regardless of whether we manage and operate the hotspot, or the hotspot is operated by a partner. As a result, our business depends on our ability to anticipate and quickly adapt to changing technological standards and advances. If technological standards change and we fail to adapt accordingly, our business and revenue may be adversely affected. Furthermore, the proliferation of new mobile devices and operating platforms poses challenges for our research and development efforts. If we are unable to create simple solutions for a particular device or operating platform, we will be unable to effectively attract users of these devices or operating platforms and our business will be adversely affected.. The U.S. government may modify, curtail or terminate one or more of our contracts.. We have dedicated a significant amount of resources to building out broadband and IPTV networks for troops stationed on military bases pursuant to our contracts with the U.S. government. Military revenue comprises a substantial part of our overall revenue and the U.S. government may. 13. Table of Contents. modify, curtail or terminate its contracts with us, either at its convenience or for default based on performance. Any such modification, curtailment, or termination of one or more of our government contracts could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flow and/or financial position.. We may not maintain recent rates of revenue growth.. Although our revenue has increased substantially over the last few years, we may not be able to maintain historical rates of revenue growth. We believe that our continued growth will depend, among other factors, on successfully implementing our business strategies, including our ability to:. <U+0095> attract new users, convert users of our single-use services into subscribers and keep existing subscribers actively using our services;     <U+0095> develop new sources of revenue from our users and partners;    <U+0095> react to changes in the way individuals access and use the mobile Internet;    <U+0095> expand into new markets;    <U+0095> increase the awareness of our brand;    <U+0095> retain our existing partners and attract new partners; and    <U+0095> provide our users with a superior experience, including customer support and payment experiences.. However, we cannot guarantee that we will successfully implement any of these business strategies.. Negotiations with prospective or existing partners can be lengthy and unpredictable, which may cause our operating results to vary.. Our negotiations with prospective or existing venue partners, including large venues like airports, transportation hubs, stadiums, arenas, military bases, universities, convention centers, office campuses and other partners, to acquire Wi-Fi locations to operate or to acquire roaming rights on partners' networks, or for new partners to implement our solutions or to extend or amend current arrangements, can be lengthy, and in some cases can last over 12 months. Because of the lengthy negotiation cycle, the time required to reach a final or amended agreement with a partner is unpredictable and may lead to variances in our operating results from quarter to quarter. Negotiations with prospective and existing partners also require substantial time, effort and resources. We may ultimately fail in our negotiations, resulting in costs to our business without any associated benefits.. We may be unsuccessful in expanding into new venue types, which could harm the growth of our business, operating results and financial condition.. We are negotiating with existing and prospective partners to expand our managed and operated Wi-Fi network and small cell footprint in venue types where we historically have had only a limited presence. Expansion into these venue types, which may include shopping malls, stadiums, hospitals, retail stores and quick service restaurants, may require significantly higher initial capital expenditures than we have historically incurred. In contrast to Wi-Fi network build-outs at venues such as airports, where telecom operators typically pay the substantial expense of laying cable or fiber, we may be required to incur the initial capital expense of access points and related hardware and cabling at tens of thousands of quick serve restaurant locations and hundreds of shopping malls, hospitals, retail stores and stadium locations. We may not be able to execute on our strategy or there may not be returns on these investments in the near future or at all. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. 14. Table of Contents. We operate relatively new businesses in a rapidly evolving industry, so an investment in our company involves more risk than an investment in a more mature company in an established industry.. We derive nearly all of our revenue from mobile Internet services, which are new and highly dynamic businesses, which face significant challenges. You should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks, uncertainties and difficulties we will encounter as an emerging company in a new and rapidly evolving market. We may not be able to address these risks, uncertainties and difficulties successfully, which could materially harm our business and operating results.. Our failure to properly maintain our customers' confidential information and protect our network against security breaches, including cyber-security breaches, could harm our business and operating results.. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other cyber-security developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology we use to protect user transaction data and cyber-security attacks are becoming more sophisticated. Cyber-security risks such as malicious software and attempts to gain unauthorized access to data are rapidly evolving and could lead to disruptions in our network, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information or corruption of data. Any compromises of our security could damage our reputation and brand and expose us to possible liability such as litigation claims or fines, which would substantially harm our business and operating results. We have incurred costs and may need to expend significant additional resources to appropriately protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches.. Many countries, such as European Union member countries as a result of the 2006 E.U. Data Retention Directive, are introducing, or have already introduced into local law some form of traffic and user data retention requirements, which are generally applicable to providers of electronic communications services. Retention periods and data types vary from country to country, and the various local data protection and other authorities may implement traffic and user retention requirements regarding certain data in different and potentially overlapping ways. Although the constitutionality of the 2006 E.U. Data Retention Directive has been questioned, we may be required to comply with data retention requirements in one or more jurisdictions, or we may be required to comply with these requirements in the future as a result of changes or modifications to the Boingo solution or changes or modifications to the technological infrastructure on which the Boingo solution is based. Failure to comply with these retention requirements may result in the imposition of costly penalties. Compliance with these retention requirements can be difficult and costly from a legal, operational and technical perspective and could harm our business and operational results.. System failures could harm our business.. Although we seek to reduce the possibility of disruptions or other outages, our business may be disrupted by problems with our technology and systems, such as an access point failure at one of our managed and operated wireless infrastructure networks, or a backhaul disruption. We have experienced system failures from time to time, and any interruption in the ability of users to access our solution could harm our business and reputation.. Our systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from telecommunications failures, computer denial-of-service attacks, power loss, computer viruses, earthquakes, floods, fires, terrorist attacks and similar events. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for all eventualities. Our systems may also be damaged by break-ins, sabotage, and acts of vandalism. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in the availability of the Boingo solution. We do not carry business interruption insurance to compensate us for all losses that may result from service interruptions caused by system failures. If we are unable to resolve service. 15. Table of Contents. interruptions quickly, our ability to acquire and retain customers will be impaired and our operating results and business could be adversely affected.. We may be unsuccessful in expanding our international operations, which could harm the growth of our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our ability to expand internationally involves various risks, including the need to invest significant resources in unfamiliar markets, and the possibility that there may not be returns on these investments in the near future or at all. In addition, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur expenses before we generate any material revenue in these new markets. Our expansion plans will require significant management attention and resources. We have limited experience in selling our solutions in international markets or in conforming to local cultures, standards or policies. We may not be able to compete successfully in these international markets. Our ability to expand will also be limited by the demand for mobile Internet in international markets. Different privacy, censorship and liability standards and regulations and different intellectual property laws in foreign countries may cause our business and operating results to suffer.. Any future international operations may fail to succeed due to risks inherent in foreign operations, including:. <U+0095> different technological solutions for mobile Internet than those used in North America;    <U+0095> varied, unfamiliar and unclear legal and regulatory restrictions;    <U+0095> unexpected changes in international regulatory requirements and tariffs;    <U+0095> legal, political, social or systemic restrictions on the ability of U.S. companies to do business in foreign countries;     <U+0095> currency fluctuations;    <U+0095> Foreign Corrupt Practices Act compliance and related risks;    <U+0095> difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations;    <U+0095> difficulties in enforcing contracts and collecting accounts receivable, and longer payment cycles, especially in emerging markets;     <U+0095> reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; and    <U+0095> potential adverse tax consequences.. Some of our business partners also have international operations and are subject to the risks described above. Even if we are able to successfully manage the risks of international operations, our business may be adversely affected if our business partners are not able to successfully manage these risks.. As a result of these obstacles, we may find it difficult or prohibitively expensive to expand internationally or we may be unsuccessful in our attempt to do so, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our industry is competitive and if we do not compete successfully, we could lose market share, experience reduced revenue or suffer losses.. The market for commercial wireless infrastructure solutions is competitive and impacted by technological change, and we expect competition with our current and potential competitors to intensify in the future. In particular, some of our competitors have taken steps or may decide to more. 16. Table of Contents. aggressively compete against us, particularly in the market for venue build-outs of Wi-Fi, DAS, and small cell solutions.. Our competitors, many of whom are also our partners, include a variety of telecom operators and network operators, including Verizon, AT&T, T-Mobile, Sprint, Comcast, Charter, Altice and local operators. These and other competitors have developed or may develop technologies that compete directly with our solutions. Many of our competitors are substantially larger than we are and have substantially longer operating histories. We may not be able to fund or invest in certain areas of our business to the same degree as our competitors. Many have substantially greater product development and marketing budgets and other financial and personnel resources than we do. Some also have greater name and brand recognition and a larger base of subscribers or users than we have. In addition, our competitors may provide services that we generally do not, such as cellular, local exchange and long distance services, voicemail and digital subscriber line. Users that desire these services may choose to also obtain mobile wireless connectivity services from a competitor that provides these additional services rather than from us.. Furthermore, we rely on several of our competitors as partners in roaming agreements. The roaming agreements provide that our retail customers and our wholesale partners' customers may use the Wi-Fi networks of our partners. One or more of our partners may deploy competing technologies that could reduce the partner's need to work with us under a roaming agreement. If our partners decide to terminate our roaming agreements, our global network of wireless networks may be reduced, which may result in a significant disruption to our business.. Competition could increase our selling and marketing expenses and related customer acquisition costs. We may not have the financial resources, technical expertise or marketing and support capabilities to continue to compete successfully. A failure to respond to established and new competitors may adversely impact our business and operating results.. We rely on our credit facility to fund a significant portion of our capital expenditures and other capital needs. If we are unable to achieve compliance with the credit facility covenants, or interest rates increase significantly, or we are unable to renew our credit facility on favorable terms, or at all, our business would be negatively impacted.. In November 2014, we entered into a Credit Agreement (the \"Credit Agreement\") and related agreements with Bank of America, N.A. acting as agent for lenders named therein. The Credit Agreement places restrictions on our ability to take certain actions and sets standards for minimum financial performance. In addition to maintaining compliance with the covenants set forth in the Credit Agreement, our ability to increase the amount available for borrowing under our revolving line of credit depends on our ability to meet certain financial targets. If we fail to comply with the terms and conditions of this Credit Agreement, then the line of credit may be withdrawn, we may be required to immediately repay any outstanding obligation, and the additional funds will not be available to us to fund our capital needs.. Additionally, the Credit Agreement expires in November 2018. Market conditions in the U.S. credit markets may negatively impact our ability to renew the Credit Agreement on favorable terms upon its expiration. If we are unable to renew the Credit Agreement on favorable terms, or at all, our ability to fund our operations may be impaired, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. The growth of free Wi-Fi networks may compete with our paid mobile Wi-Fi Internet solutions.. Many venues offer free mobile Wi-Fi as an incentive or value-added benefit to their customers. Free Wi-Fi may reduce retail customer demand for our services, and put downward pressure on the prices we charge our retail customers. In addition, telecom operators may offer free mobile Wi-Fi as. 17. Table of Contents. part of a home broadband or other service contract, which also may force down the prices we charge our retail customers. If we are unable to effectively offset this downward pressure on our prices by being a Wi-Fi service provider or sufficiently grow our DAS and small cell business, or if we are unable to acquire and retain retail customers, we will have lower profit margins and our operating results and financial condition may be adversely impacted.. The regulation of Internet communications, products and services is currently uncertain, which poses risks for our business from changes in laws, regulations, and interpretation or enforcement of existing laws or regulations.. The current regulatory environment for Internet communications, products and services is uncertain. Many laws and regulations were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet and related technologies and often do not contemplate or address the specific issues associated with the Internet and related technologies. The scope of laws and regulations applicable to the Internet remains uncertain and is subject to statutory or interpretive change. We cannot be certain that we, our partners or our users are currently in compliance with regulatory or other legal requirements in the numerous countries in which our service is used. Our failure or the failure of our partners, users and others with whom we transact business, or to whom we license the Boingo solution, to comply with existing or future regulatory or other legal requirements could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Regulators may disagree with our interpretations of existing laws or regulations or the applicability of existing laws or regulations to our business, and existing laws, regulations and interpretations may change in unexpected ways.. We believe that the Boingo solution is on the forefront of wireless infrastructure connectivity, and therefore it may face greater regulatory scrutiny than other communications products and services. We cannot be certain what positions regulators may take regarding our compliance with, or lack of compliance with, current and future legal and regulatory requirements or what positions regulators may take regarding any past or future actions we have taken or may take in any jurisdiction. Regulators may determine that we are not in compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, and impose penalties, or we may need to make changes to the Boingo solution, which could be costly and difficult. Any of these events would adversely affect our operating results and business.. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract and retain personnel on a cost effective basis, our business could be harmed.. Our performance is substantially dependent on the continued services and performance of our senior management and our highly qualified team of engineers, many of whom have numerous years of experience and specialized expertise in our business. If we are not successful in hiring and retaining highly qualified engineers, we may not be able to extend or maintain our engineering and technological expertise and our future product and service development efforts could be adversely affected. Additionally, the process of attracting and retaining suitable replacements for any executive officers or any of our highly qualified engineers we lose in the future would result in transition costs and would divert the attention of other members of our senior management from our existing operations. Additionally, such a loss could be negatively perceived in the capital markets. If we lose members of our senior management, this may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our strategic objectives and adversely affect our operating results.. Our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate highly skilled managerial, operations, business development and marketing personnel. We have in the past maintained a rigorous, highly selective and time-consuming hiring process. We believe that our approach to hiring has significantly contributed to our success to date. However, our highly selective hiring process has made it more difficult for us to hire a sufficient number of qualified employees, and, as we grow, our hiring process may prevent us from hiring the personnel we need in a timely manner.. 18. Table of Contents. Moreover, the cost of living in the Los Angeles area, where our corporate headquarters is located, has been an impediment to attracting new employees in the past, and we expect that this will continue to impair our ability to attract and retain employees in the future. If we fail to attract, integrate and retain the necessary personnel, we may not be able to grow effectively and our business could suffer significantly.. Worldwide economic conditions, and their impact on travel and consumer spending, may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our business is impacted by travel and consumer spending, because users seek to access the mobile Internet while they are on-the-go, and because spending on Internet access is often a consumer discretionary spending decision. Factors that tend to negatively impact levels of travel include high unemployment, high energy prices, low business and consumer confidence, the fear of terrorist attacks, war and other macroeconomic factors. Economic conditions that tend to negatively impact levels of discretionary consumer spending include high unemployment, high consumer debt, reductions in net worth, depressed real estate markets, increased taxation, high energy prices, high interest rates, low consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors. If the global economic recovery is slower than expected, or if it weakens, our military and retail customer base, new military and retail customer acquisition and usage-based revenue could be materially harmed, and our results of operations would be adversely affected.. We rely on a third-party customer support service provider for the majority of our customer support calls. If this service provider experiences operational difficulties or disruptions, our business could be adversely affected.. We depend on a third-party customer support service provider to handle most of our routine military and retail customer support cases. While we maintain limited customer support operations in our Los Angeles headquarters, if our relationship with our customer support service provider terminates unexpectedly, or if our customer service provider experiences operational difficulties, we may not be able to respond to customer support calls in a timely manner and the quality of our customer service would be adversely affected. This could harm our reputation and brand image and make it difficult for us to attract and retain users. In addition, the loss of the customer support service provider would require us to identify and contract with alternative sources, which could prove time-consuming and expensive.. Material defects or errors in our software could harm our reputation and brand, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell the Boingo solution.. The software underlying the Boingo solution is inherently complex and may contain material defects or errors, particularly when the software is first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. We have from time to time found defects or errors in our software, and defects or errors in our existing software may be detected in the future. Any defects or errors that cause interruptions to the availability of our services could result in:. <U+0095> a reduction in sales or delay in market acceptance of the Boingo solution;    <U+0095> sales credits or refunds to our users and wholesale partners;    <U+0095> loss of existing users and difficulty in attracting new users;    <U+0095> diversion of development resources;    <U+0095> harm to our reputation and brand image; and    <U+0095> increased insurance costs.. 19. Table of Contents. The costs incurred in correcting any material defects or errors in our software may be substantial and could harm our operating results.. If we are not successful in developing our mobile application for new devices and platforms, or if those solutions are not widely adopted, our results of operations and business could be adversely affected.. As new mobile devices and platforms are developed, we may encounter problems in developing products for such new mobile devices and platforms, and we may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support, and maintenance of such products. In addition, if we experience difficulties integrating our mobile applications into mobile devices, or if we face increased costs to distribute our mobile applications, our future growth and our results of operations could suffer.. If we fail to maintain relationships with providers of mobile operating systems or mobile application download stores, our business could be adversely affected.. We rely on the integration of our software into mobile operating systems to allow mobile devices to connect to our global network of wireless networks. If problems arise with our relationships with providers of mobile operating systems or mobile application download stores, such as the Apple App Store and Google Play, or if our mobile application receives unfavorable treatment compared to the promotion and placement of competing applications, such as the order of our products in the mobile application download stores, we may fail to attract or retain customers or partners, and our business could be adversely affected.. Our business depends on strong brands, and if we do not cost effectively develop, maintain and enhance our brand, our financial condition and operating results could be harmed.. We believe that the Boingo brand is a critical part of our business and that developing and maintaining awareness of our brand is important to achieving widespread acceptance of the Boingo solution, and is an important element in attracting and retaining customers and partners. We continue to seek new ways to promote our brand through our managed and operated hotspots. We intend to enhance our brand through low-cost co-marketing arrangements with our partners and through periodic promotional and sponsorship activities and by continuing to leverage the reach of social media to interact with our customers. In order to maintain strong relationships with our venue and network partners, we may have to reduce the visibility of the Boingo brand or make other decisions that do not promote and maintain the Boingo brand, such as our custom branding alternatives that we offer to wholesale clients. If we fail to promote and maintain the Boingo brand, or if we incur significant expenses to promote the brand and are still unsuccessful in maintaining a strong brand, our financial condition and operating results could be harmed.. Additionally, we believe that developing this brand in a cost effective manner is important in meeting our expected margins. Brand promotion activities may not result in increased revenue, and any increased revenue resulting from these promotion activities may not offset the expenses we incurred in building our brand. If we fail to cost effectively build and maintain our brand, we may fail to attract or retain customers or partners, and our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. Claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology could harm our business.. In recent years there has been significant litigation involving intellectual property rights in many technology-based industries, including the wireless communications industry. While we have not been specifically targeted, companies similar to us have been subject to patent lawsuits. As we face increasing competition and gain an increasingly high profile, the possibility of intellectual property rights claims against us grows. We may be subject to third-party claims in the future. The costs of. 20. Table of Contents. supporting these litigations and disputes are considerable, and there can be no assurance that a favorable outcome will be obtained. We may be required to settle these litigations and disputes on terms that are unfavorable to us, given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. Claims that the Boingo solution infringes third-party intellectual property rights, regardless of their merit or resolution, could also divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. The terms of any settlements or judgments may require us to:. <U+0095> cease distribution and back-end operation of the Boingo solution;    <U+0095> pay substantial damages for infringement;    <U+0095> expend significant resources to develop non-infringing solutions;    <U+0095> license technology from the third-party claiming infringement, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all;     <U+0095> cross-license our technology to a competitor to resolve an infringement claim, which could weaken our ability to compete with that competitor; or    <U+0095> pay substantial damages to our partners to discontinue their use of or to replace infringing solutions sold to them with non-infringing solutions.. Any of these unfavorable outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed, or we could be required to incur significant expenses to enforce our rights.. Our business depends on our ability to protect our proprietary technology. We rely on trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws and confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties, all of which offer only limited protection. We own nine patents and have applications for two additional patents pending in the United States. Despite our efforts, the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to prevent the use or misappropriation of our proprietary information or infringement of our intellectual property rights. Our ability to police the use, misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property is uncertain, particularly in countries other than the United States. Further, we do not know whether any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents or whether the examination process will require us to narrow our claims. Even if patents are issued, they may be contested, circumvented, or invalidated in the future. Moreover, the rights granted under any issued patents may not provide us with complete proprietary protection or any competitive advantages, and, as with any technology, competitors may be able to develop similar or superior technologies on their own now or in the future. Protecting against the unauthorized use of our solutions, trademarks, and other proprietary rights is expensive, difficult and, in some cases, impossible. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, either of which could harm our business. Furthermore, many of our current and potential competitors have the ability to dedicate substantially greater resources to enforce their intellectual property rights than we do. Accordingly, despite our efforts, if the protection of our proprietary rights is inadequate to prevent use or misappropriation by third parties, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished and competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our service and methods of operations. Any of these events would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 21. Table of Contents. Our use of open source software could limit our ability to commercialize the Boingo solution.. We have incorporated open source software into the Boingo solution. Although we closely monitor our use of open source software, we are subject to the terms of open source licenses that have not been interpreted by U.S. or foreign courts, and there is a risk that in the future these licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize the Boingo solution. In that event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties or to re-engineer our software in order to continue offering the Boingo solution, or to discontinue operations, any of which could materially adversely affect our business.. We utilize unlicensed spectrum in certain of our offerings, which is subject to intense competition, low barriers of entry and slowdowns due to multiple users.. We presently utilize unlicensed spectrum to provide our Wi-Fi Internet solutions. Unlicensed or \"free\" spectrum is available to multiple users and may suffer bandwidth limitations, interference and slowdowns if the number of users exceeds traffic capacity. The availability of unlicensed spectrum is not unlimited and others do not need to obtain permits or licenses to utilize the same unlicensed spectrum that we currently, or may in the future, utilize. The inherent limitations of unlicensed spectrum could potentially threaten our ability to reliably deliver our services. Moreover, the prevalence of unlicensed spectrum creates low barriers to entry in our industry.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. The market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors.. Fluctuations in market price and volume are particularly common among securities of technology companies. As a result, you may be unable to sell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to the factors described in this risk factor section as well as the following factors, among others, many of which are beyond our control:. <U+0095> general market conditions;    <U+0095> domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance;    <U+0095> actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results;    <U+0095> changes in or failure to meet publicly disclosed expectations as to our future financial performance;     <U+0095> changes in securities analysts' estimates of our financial performance or lack of research and reports by industry analysts;     <U+0095> changes in market valuations or earnings of similar companies;    <U+0095> announcements by us or our competitors of significant products, contracts, acquisitions, or strategic partnerships;     <U+0095> developments or disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights, including increases or decreases in litigation expenses associated with intellectual property lawsuits we may initiate, or in which we may be named as defendants;    <U+0095> termination or potential termination of a relationship with a venue partner;    <U+0095> failure to complete significant sales;    <U+0095> any future sales of our common stock or other securities; and. 22. Table of Contents. <U+0095> additions or departures of key personnel.. If securities or industry analysts publish misleading or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts downgrades our stock or publishes misleading or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Announcements by analysts that may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock may relate to:. <U+0095> our operating results or forecasts;    <U+0095> new issuances of equity, debt or convertible debt by us;    <U+0095> developments in our relationships with corporate customers;    <U+0095> announcements by our customers or competitors;    <U+0095> changes in regulatory policy or interpretation;    <U+0095> governmental investigations;    <U+0095> changes in the industries in which we operate;    <U+0095> changes in the ratings of our stock by rating agencies or securities analysts;    <U+0095> our acquisitions of complementary businesses; or    <U+0095> our operational performance.. As a public company, we are subject to financial and other reporting and corporate governance requirements that may be difficult for us to satisfy, and may divert resources and management attention from operating our business.. We are required to file annual, quarterly and other reports with the SEC. We must prepare and timely file financial statements that comply with SEC reporting requirements. We are also subject to other reporting and corporate governance requirements, under the listing standards of the NASDAQ Stock Market, or NASDAQ, which imposes significant compliance obligations upon us. We are required, among other things, to:. <U+0095> prepare and file periodic reports, and distribute other stockholder communications, in compliance with the federal securities laws and NASDAQ rules; and    <U+0095> evaluate and maintain our system of internal control over financial reporting, and report on management's assessment thereof, in compliance with rules and regulations of the SEC and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. Further, we are required to obtain an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31st each year from our independent registered public accounting firm.. 23. Table of Contents. If we fail to comply with the rules of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 related to accounting controls and procedures, or, if we discover material weaknesses and deficiencies in our internal control and accounting procedures, our financial results may be adversely effected and we may be subject to sanctions by regulatory authorities and our stock price could decline.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (the \"Act\") requires that we evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and requires an attestation and report by our external auditing firm on our internal control over financial reporting. We believe our system and process evaluation and testing comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404. We cannot be certain, however, that we will be able to satisfy the requirements in Section 404 in all future periods, especially as we grow our business. If we are not able to continue to meet the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or the NASDAQ Stock Market. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results or investors' confidence in us and could cause our stock price to fall. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal controls that are deemed to be material weaknesses, we may be required to incur significant additional financial and management resources to achieve compliance.. If we need additional capital in the future, it may not be available on favorable terms, or at all.. We may require additional capital from equity or debt financing in the future to fund our operations, or respond to competitive pressures or strategic opportunities. We may not be able to secure timely additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. The terms of additional financing may place limits on our financial and operating flexibility. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity, convertible debt securities or other securities convertible into equity, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. Additionally, the Credit Agreement expires in November 2018 and if we are unable to renew the Credit Agreement on favorable terms, or at all, our ability to fund our operations may be impaired, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, if and when we require it, our ability to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges and opportunities could be significantly limited.. The price of our common stock may continue to be volatile, which could lead to losses by investors and costly securities litigation, which could divert management's attention and adversely affect our results of operations.. The stock market in general and market prices for the securities of technology companies like ours in particular, have from time to time experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of the underlying companies. A certain degree of stock price volatility can also be attributed to being an emerging company in an evolving industry. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In several recent situations where the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders were to bring a lawsuit against us, the defense and disposition of the lawsuit could be costly and divert the time and attention of our management and harm our operating results.. 24. Table of Contents. Investors may experience dilution of their ownership interests because of the future issuance of additional shares of our capital stock.. We are authorized to issue 100,000,000 shares of common stock and 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. As of December 31, 2017, there were approximately 40,995,000 shares of our common stock issued and outstanding and no shares of preferred stock outstanding. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, we had approximately 3,324,000 unvested restricted stock units, approximately 1,282,000 exercisable stock options, and approximately 3,863,000 shares available for grant under the 2011 Plan.. In the future, we may issue additional authorized but previously unissued equity securities resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our present stockholders. We may also issue additional shares of our capital stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for our capital stock in connection with hiring or retaining employees or for other business purposes, including future sales of our securities for capital raising purposes. The future issuance of any such additional shares of capital stock may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of our company and may affect the trading price of our common stock.. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. Institutional shareholder representative groups, shareholder activists and others may disagree with our corporate governance provisions or other practices, such as those listed below. We generally will consider recommendations of institutional shareholder representative groups, but we will make decisions based on what our board and management believe to be in the best long term interests of our company and stockholders. These groups could make recommendations to our stockholders against our practices or our board members if they disagree with our positions. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws include provisions that:. <U+0095> authorize the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt;     <U+0095> establish a classified board of directors (that is being phased out over the next two years), which prevents, until the 2020 annual meeting of stockholders when all directors will be elected annually, the ability of a stockholder to launch a proxy contest to replace the entire board of directors;    <U+0095> require that until the expiration of the term of any director elected to serve a three-year term, such directors may only be removed from office for cause and only upon a majority stockholder vote;    <U+0095> provide that vacancies on the board of directors, including newly-created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office;    <U+0095> limit who may call special meetings of stockholders;    <U+0095> prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; and     <U+0095> require supermajority stockholder voting to effect certain amendments to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws.. 25. Table of Contents. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of a potential proxy contest for the election of directors at our annual meeting or other shareholder activism.. In 2016, we were subjected to a proxy contest, which resulted in the negotiation of changes to the board of directors and considerable costs were incurred. A future proxy contest would most likely require us to incur significant legal fees and proxy solicitation expenses and require significant time and attention by management and our board of directors. The potential of a proxy contest or other shareholder activism could interfere with our ability to execute our strategic plan, give rise to perceived uncertainties as to our future direction, result in the loss of potential business opportunities or make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.. We have incurred substantial losses in past and current years and may incur additional losses in the future.. As of December 31, 2017 our accumulated deficit was $132.0 million. We generated a net loss in 2017 and we are also currently investing in our future growth through expanding our network and buildouts, investing in our software, and consideration of future business acquisitions. As a result, we will incur higher depreciation and other operating expenses, as well as potential acquisition costs, that may negatively impact our ability to achieve profitability in future periods unless and until these growth efforts generate enough revenue to exceed their operating costs and cover our additional overhead needed to scale our business for this anticipated growth. The current global financial condition may also impact our ability to achieve profitability if we cannot generate sufficient revenue to offset the increased costs. In addition, costs associated with the acquisition and integration of any acquired companies may also negatively impact our ability to achieve profitability. Finally, given the competitive and evolving nature of the industry in which we operate, we may not be able to achieve or increase profitability.. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock.. We do not intend to declare and pay dividends on our capital stock for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Therefore, you are not likely to receive any dividends on your common stock for the foreseeable future and the success of an investment in shares of our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in their value.. Changes in accounting standards and their interpretations could adversely affect our operating results.. U.S. GAAP are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB, the SEC, and various other bodies that promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. These principles and related implementation guidelines and interpretations can be highly complex and involve subjective judgments. A change in these principles or interpretations, including the implementation of ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before or after the announcement of a change."
