[1] "ITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS. BOK Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries could be adversely affected by risks and uncertainties that could have a material impact on its financial condition and results of operations, as well as on its common stock and other financial instruments. Risk factors which are significant to the Company include, but are not limited to:. General and Regulatory Risk Factors. Adverse factors could impact BOK Financial's ability to implement its operating strategy.. Although BOK Financial has developed an operating strategy, which it expects to result in continuing improved financial performance, BOK Financial cannot ensure that it will be successful in fulfilling this strategy or that this operating strategy will be successful. Achieving success is dependent upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond BOK Financial's direct control. Factors that may adversely affect BOK Financial's ability to implement its operating strategy include:. • deterioration of BOK Financial's asset quality;. • deterioration in general economic conditions, especially in BOK Financial's core markets;. • inability to control BOK Financial's non-interest expenses;. • inability to increase non-interest income;. • inability to access capital;. • decreases in net interest margins;. • increases in competition;. • adverse regulatory developments.. Substantial competition could adversely affect BOK Financial.. Banking is a competitive business. BOK Financial competes actively for loan, deposit and other financial services business in the southwest region of the United States. BOK Financial's competitors include a large number of small and large local and national banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, trust companies, broker-dealers and underwriters, as well as many financial and non-financial firms that offer services similar to those of BOK Financial. Large national financial institutions have substantial capital, technology and marketing resources. Such large financial institutions may have greater access to capital at a lower cost than BOK Financial does, which may adversely affect BOK Financial's ability to compete effectively.. BOK Financial has expanded into markets outside of Oklahoma, where it competes with a large number of financial institutions that have an established customer base and greater market share than BOK Financial. With respect to some of its services, BOK Financial competes with non-bank companies that are not subject to regulation. The absence of regulatory requirements may give non-banks a competitive advantage.. The increasingly competitive environment is in part a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. Our success depends on our ability to respond to the threats and opportunities of financial technology innovations. Developments in \"fintech\" and crypto-currencies have the potential to disrupt the financial industry and change the way banks do business. Investment in new technology to stay competitive could result in significant costs and increased cybersecurity risk. Our success depends on our ability to adapt to the pace of the rapidly changing technological environment which is important to retention and acquisitions of customers.. Government regulations could adversely affect BOK Financial.. BOK Financial and BOKF, NA are subject to banking laws and regulations that limit the type of acquisitions and investments that we may make. In addition, certain permitted acquisitions and investments are subject to prior review and approval by banking regulators, including the Federal Reserve, OCC and FDIC. Banking regulators have broad discretion on whether to approve proposed acquisitions and investments. In deciding whether to approve a proposed acquisition, federal banking regulators will consider, among other things, the effect of the acquisition on competition; the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including our record of compliance under the Community Reinvestment Act; and our effectiveness in combating money laundering. They will also consider our financial condition and our future prospects, including projected capital ratios and levels; the competence, experience, and integrity of our management; and our record of compliance with laws and regulations.. 9. The last several years have seen an increase in regulatory costs borne by the banking industry. Laws, regulations or policies currently affecting BOK Financial and its subsidiaries may change. The implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act has and will continue to affect BOK Financial's businesses, including interchange revenue, mortgage banking, derivative and trading activities on behalf of customers, consumer products and funds management.. Regulatory authorities may change their interpretation of these statutes and regulations, including the OCC, our primary regulator, and the CFPB, our regulator for certain designated consumer laws and regulations. Violations of laws and regulations could limit the growth potential of BOK Financial's businesses. We have made extensive investments in human and technological resources to address enhanced regulatory expectations, including investments in the areas of risk management, compliance, and capital planning. Political developments, including the change in administration in the United States, have added additional uncertainty to the implementation, scope and timing of changes in the regulatory environment for the banking industry and for the broader economy.. The Tax Reform Act was signed into law on December 22, 2017. Key provisions that will impact domestic banks include lowering of the corporate tax rate to 21%, full expensing of qualified assets purchased and placed in service after September 27, 2017, elimination of net operating loss carry-backs, and limitations on the deductibility of FDIC insurance and compensation expense for certain executive officers. Many provisions of the Tax Reform Act may also impact our customers, including limitations on deductions by businesses for net interest expense and by individuals for interest on mortgage loans in excess of $750,000 and elimination of deduction of interest on certain home equity loans. BOKF believes that the overall impact of the Tax Reform Act should benefit our customers. However, certain provisions could have an adverse impact on our customers and BOKF's products, services and revenue.. Political environment could negatively impact BOK Financial's business.. As a result of the financial crisis and related government intervention to stabilize the banking system, there have been a series of laws and related regulations proposed or enacted in an attempt to ensure the crisis is not repeated. Many of the new regulations have been far-reaching. The intervention by the government also impacted populist sentiment with a negative view of financial institutions. High profile mistakes by the very largest banks in the country have continued to fuel negative sentiment towards the banking industry. This sentiment may increase litigation risk to the Company or have an adverse impact on BOK Financial's future operations. Recent legislative proposals could slow the rate of future increases in regulatory burden for BOK Financial. However, legislative outcomes and their durability are inherently uncertain.. Credit Risk Factors. Adverse regional economic developments could negatively affect BOK Financial's business.. At December 31, 2017, loans to businesses and individuals with collateral primarily located in Texas represented approximately 34% of the total loan portfolio and loans to businesses and individuals with collateral primarily located in Oklahoma represented approximately 19% of our total loan portfolio. These geographic concentrations subject the loan portfolio to the general economic conditions within these areas. Poor economic conditions in Oklahoma, Texas or other markets in the southwest region may cause BOK Financial to incur losses associated with higher default rates and decreased collateral values in BOK Financial's loan portfolio. A regional economic downturn could also adversely affect revenue from brokerage and trading activities, mortgage loan originations and other sources of fee-based revenue.. Extended oil and gas commodity price downturns could negatively affect BOK Financial customers.. At December 31, 2017, 17% of BOK Financial's total loan portfolio is comprised of loans to borrowers in the energy industry. The energy industry is historically cyclical and prolonged periods of low oil and gas commodity prices could negatively impact borrowers' ability to pay. In addition, the Company does business in several major oil and natural gas producing states including Oklahoma, Texas and Colorado. The economies of these states could be negatively impacted by prolonged periods of low oil and gas commodity prices resulting in increased credit migration to classified and nonaccruing categories, higher loan loss provisions and risk of credit losses from both energy borrowers and businesses and individuals in those regional economies.. 10. Other adverse economic factors affecting particular industries could have a negative effect on BOK Financial customers and their ability to make payments to BOK Financial.. Certain industry-specific economic factors also affect BOK Financial. For example, BOK Financial's loan portfolio includes commercial real estate loans. A downturn in the real estate industry in general or in certain segments of the commercial real estate industry in the southwest region could also have an adverse effect on BOK Financial's operations. Regulatory changes in healthcare may negatively affect our customers, which to date primarily has been focused in senior housing. A U.S. House proposal that provides states more flexibility in using Medicare/Medicaid funds may reduce healthcare reimbursement rates.. Adverse global economic factors could have a negative effect on BOK Financial customers and counterparties.. Economic conditions globally, including those of the European Union and China, could impact BOK Financial's customers and counterparties with which we do business. We have no direct exposure to European sovereign debt and our aggregate gross exposure to European financial institutions totaled $2.9 million at December 31, 2017. Our exposure to Chinese financial institutions is limited. In addition, we have an aggregate gross exposure to internationally active domestic financial institutions of approximately $226 million at December 31, 2017 composed of $217 million of cash and securities positions and $9.8 million of gross derivative positions. The financial condition of these institutions is monitored on an on-going basis. We have not identified any significant customer exposures to European sovereign debt, European financial institutions or Chinese financial institutions.. Liquidity and Interest Rate Risk Factors. Fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect BOK Financial's business.. BOK Financial's business is highly sensitive to:. • the monetary policies implemented by the Federal Reserve Board, including the discount rate on bank borrowings and changes in reserve requirements, which affect BOK Financial's ability to make loans and the interest rates we may charge;. • changes in prevailing interest rates, due to the dependency of the the Bank on interest income;. • open market operations in U.S. Government securities.. A significant increase in market interest rates, or the perception that an increase may occur, could adversely affect both BOK Financial's ability to originate new loans and BOK Financial's ability to grow. Conversely, a decrease in interest rates could result in acceleration in the payment of loans, including loans underlying BOK Financial's holdings of residential mortgage-backed securities and termination of BOK Financial's mortgage servicing rights. In addition, changes in market interest rates, changes in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates or changes in the relationships between different interest rate indices, could affect the interest rates charged on interest-earning assets differently than the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. This difference could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income, which would reduce the Company's net interest revenue. In a rising interest rate environment, the composition of the deposit portfolio could shift resulting in a mix that is more sensitive to changes in interest rates than is the current mix. An increase in market interest rates also could adversely affect the ability of BOK Financial's floating-rate borrowers to meet their higher payment obligations. If this occurred, it could cause an increase in nonperforming assets and net charge-offs, which could adversely affect BOK Financial's business.. We have a significant number of loans, derivative contracts, borrowings and other financial instruments with attributes that are either directly or indirectly dependent on LIBOR. In 2017, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority announced that LIBOR is to be transitioned to alternative rates during the next four years. U.S. regulatory authorities have voiced similar support for phasing out LIBOR. The impact of alternatives to LIBOR on the valuations, pricing and operation of our financial instruments is not yet known.. 11. Changes in mortgage interest rates could adversely affect mortgage banking operations as well as BOK Financial's substantial holdings of residential mortgage-backed securities and mortgage servicing rights, and brokerage and trading revenue.. Our available for sale residential mortgage-backed security portfolio represents investment interests in pools of residential mortgages, composing $5.4 billion or 17% of total assets of the Company at December 31, 2017. The fair value of residential mortgage-backed securities is highly sensitive to changes in interest rates. BOK Financial mitigates this risk somewhat by investing principally in shorter duration mortgage products, which are less sensitive to changes in interest rates. A significant decrease in interest rates may lead mortgage holders to refinance the mortgages constituting the pool backing the securities, subjecting BOK Financial to a risk of prepayment and decreased return on investment due to subsequent reinvestment at lower interest rates. A significant decrease in interest rates may also accelerate premium amortization. Conversely, a significant increase in interest rates may cause mortgage holders to extend the term over which they repay their loans, which delays the Company's opportunity to reinvest funds at higher rates.. Residential mortgage-backed securities are also subject to credit risk from delinquency or default of the underlying loans. BOK Financial mitigates this risk somewhat by investing in securities issued by U.S. government agencies. Principal and interest payments on the loans underlying these securities are guaranteed by these agencies.. BOK Financial derives a substantial amount of revenue from mortgage loan activities, including $38 million from the production and sale of mortgage loans, $66 million from the servicing of mortgage loans, $12 million from the trading of U.S. agency residential mortgage backed securities and related financial instruments and $35 million from sales of financial instruments to other mortgage lenders in 2017.. In addition, as part of BOK Financial's mortgage banking business, BOK Financial has substantial holdings of mortgage servicing rights, totaling $253 million or 0.78% of total assets at December 31, 2017. The fair value of these rights is also very sensitive to changes in interest rates. Falling interest rates tend to increase loan prepayments, which may lead to a decrease in the value of related servicing rights. BOK Financial attempts to manage this risk by maintaining an active hedging program for its mortgage servicing rights. The Company's hedging program focuses on partially hedging the risk of changes in fair value, primarily related to changes mortgage interest rates. Other factors, such as short-term interest rates, which also impact the value of mortgage servicing rights, may not be hedged. The value of mortgage servicing rights may also decrease due to rising delinquency or default of the loans serviced, which are not hedged. This risk is mitigated somewhat by adherence to underwriting standards on loans originated for sale.. Fees and commissions revenue, as well our substantial holdings of residential mortgage backed securities and mortgage servicing rights may be adversely affected by changes in government policies and programs.. Market disruptions could impact BOK Financial's funding sources.. BOK Financial's subsidiary bank may rely on other financial institutions and the Federal Home Loan Bank of Topeka as a significant source of funds. Our ability to fund loans, manage our interest rate risk and meet other obligations depends on funds borrowed from these sources. The inability to borrow funds at market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. Operating Risk Factors. Dependence on technology increases cybersecurity risk.. As a financial institution, we process a significant number of customer transactions and possess a significant amount of sensitive customer information. As technology advances, the ability to initiate transactions and access data has become more widely distributed among mobile phones, personal computers, automated teller machines, remote deposit capture sites and similar access points. These technological advances increase cybersecurity risk. While the Company maintains programs intended to prevent or limit the effects of cybersecurity risk, there is no assurance that unauthorized transactions or unauthorized access to customer information will not occur. The financial, reputational and regulatory impact of unauthorized transactions or unauthorized access to customer information could be significant.. 12. We depend on third parties for critical components of our infrastructure.. We outsource a significant portion of our information systems, communications, data management and transaction processing to third parties. These third parties are sources of risk associated with operational errors, system interruptions or breaches, unauthorized disclosure of confidential information and misuse of intellectual property. If the service providers encounter any of these issues, we could be exposed to disruption of service, reputation damages, and litigation risk that could be material to our business.. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Stock. Although publicly traded, BOK Financial's common stock has substantially less liquidity than the average trading market for a stock quoted on the NASDAQ National Market System.. A relatively small fraction of BOK Financial's outstanding common stock is actively traded. The risks of low liquidity include increased volatility of the price of BOK Financial's common stock. Low liquidity may also limit holders of BOK Financial's common stock in their ability to sell or transfer BOK Financial's shares at the price, time and quantity desired.. BOK Financial's principal shareholder controls a majority of BOK Financial's common stock.. Mr. George B. Kaiser owns approximately 60% of the outstanding shares of BOK Financial's common stock at December 31, 2017. Mr. Kaiser is able to elect all of BOK Financial's directors and effectively control the vote on all matters submitted to a vote of BOK Financial's common shareholders. Mr. Kaiser's ability to prevent an unsolicited bid for BOK Financial or any other change in control could have an adverse effect on the market price for BOK Financial's common stock. A substantial majority of BOK Financial's directors are not officers or employees of BOK Financial or any of its affiliates. However, because of Mr. Kaiser's control over the election of BOK Financial's directors, he could change the composition of BOK Financial's Board of Directors so that it would not have a majority of outside directors.. Possible future sales of shares by BOK Financial's principal shareholder could adversely affect the market price of BOK Financial's common stock.. Mr. Kaiser has the right to sell shares of BOK Financial's common stock in compliance with the federal securities laws at any time, or from time to time. The federal securities laws will be the only restrictions on Mr. Kaiser's ability to sell. Because of his current control of BOK Financial, Mr. Kaiser could sell large amounts of his shares of BOK Financial's common stock by causing BOK Financial to file a registration statement that would allow him to sell shares more easily. In addition, Mr. Kaiser could sell his shares of BOK Financial's common stock without registration under Rule 144 of the Securities Act. Although BOK Financial can make no predictions as to the effect, if any, that such sales would have on the market price of BOK Financial's common stock, sales of substantial amounts of BOK Financial's common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect market prices. If Mr. Kaiser sells or transfers his shares of BOK Financial's common stock as a block, another person or entity could become BOK Financial's controlling shareholder.. Statutory restrictions on subsidiary dividends and other distributions and debts of BOK Financial's subsidiaries could limit amounts BOK Financial's subsidiaries may pay to BOK Financial.. A substantial portion of BOK Financial's cash flow typically comes from dividends paid by BOKF, NA. Statutory provisions and regulations restrict the amount of dividends BOKF, NA may pay to BOK Financial without regulatory approval. Management also developed, and the BOK Financial board of directors approved, an internal capital policy that is more restrictive than the regulatory capital standards. In the event of liquidation, creditors of the Bank and other non-bank subsidiaries of BOK Financial are entitled to receive distributions from the assets of that subsidiary before BOK Financial, as holder of an equity interest in the subsidiaries, is entitled to receive any distributions.. 13"
