[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors.. Our business involves a high degree of risk. If any of the following risks, or any risk described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks not presently known to us or which we currently consider immaterial also may adversely affect us.. Risks Related to Our Business. Further declines, in oil and, to a lesser extent, natural gas prices, will adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations or targets and financial commitments.. The price we receive for our oil and, to a lesser extent, natural gas and NGLs, heavily influences our revenue, profitability, cash flows, liquidity, the borrowing base under our $191.7 million revolving credit facility (the \"successor credit facility\"), access to capital, present value and quality of our reserves, the nature and scale of our operations and future rate of growth. Oil and natural gas are commodities and, therefore, their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. In recent years, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile. These markets will likely continue to be volatile in the future. Further, oil prices and natural gas prices do not necessarily fluctuate in direct relation to each other. Because approximately 74% of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2017 were oil and NGLs, our financial results are more sensitive to movements in oil prices. Since mid-2014, the price of crude oil has significantly declined and has not regained previous highs. As a result, we experienced significant decreases in crude oil revenues and recorded asset. 34. Table of Contents. impairment charges due to commodity price declines. A prolonged period of low market prices for oil, natural gas and NGLs, like the current commodity price environment, or further declines in the market prices for oil and natural gas, will result in capital expenditures being further curtailed and will adversely affect our business, financial condition and liquidity and our ability to meet obligations, targets or financial commitments. During the year ended December 31, 2017, the daily New York Mercantile exchange (\"NYMEX\") WTI oil spot price ranged from a high of $60.46 per Bbl to a low of $42.48 per Bbl, and the NYMEX natural gas HH spot price ranged from a high of $3.71 per MMBtu to a low of $2.44 per MMBtu. As of March 9, 2018, the daily NYMEX WTI oil spot price and NYMEX natural gas HH spot price was $62.04 per Bbl and $2.73 per MMBtu, respectively.. The prices we receive for our production, and the levels of our production, depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following:. • worldwide and regional economic conditions impacting the global supply and demand for oil and natural gas;. • the actions from members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other oil producing nations;. • the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil and natural gas;. • political conditions in or affecting other oil-producing and natural gas-producing countries, including the current conflicts in the Middle East and conditions in South America and Russia;. • the level of global oil and natural gas exploration and production;. • the level of global oil and natural gas inventories;. • localized supply and demand fundamentals and transportation availability;. • weather conditions and natural disasters;. • domestic and foreign governmental regulations;. • speculation as to the future price of oil and the speculative trading of oil and natural gas futures contracts;. • the price and availability of competitors' supplies of oil and natural gas;. • technological advances affecting energy consumption;. • variability in subsurface reservoir characteristics, particularly in areas with immature development history;. • the availability of pipeline capacity and infrastructure; and. • the price and availability of alternative fuels.. Substantially all of our production is sold to purchasers under contracts at market-based prices. Declines in commodity prices may have the following effects on our business:. • reduction of our revenues, profit margins, operating income and cash flows;. • reduction in the amount of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs that we can produce economically and may lead to reduced liquidity and the inability to pay our liabilities as they come due;. • certain properties in our portfolio becoming economically unviable;. • delay or postponement of some of our capital projects;. • significant reductions in future capital programs, resulting in a reduced ability to develop our reserves;. • limitations on our financial condition, liquidity and/or ability to finance planned capital expenditures and operations;. • reduction to the borrowing base under our successor credit facility or limitations in our access to sources of capital, such as equity or debt;. • declines in our stock price;. • refinery industry demand for crude oil;. 35. Table of Contents. • storage availability for crude oil;. • the ability of our vendors, suppliers, and customers to continue operations due to the prevailing adverse market conditions; and. • asset impairment charges resulting from reductions in the carrying values of our crude oil and natural gas properties at the date of assessment.. Our production is not fully hedged, and we are exposed to fluctuations in the price of oil and will be affected by continuing and prolonged declines in the price of oil and natural gas.. Oil and natural gas prices are volatile, and we currently have approximately 31% of our anticipated 2018 production hedged. As a result, some of our future production will be sold at market prices, exposing us to the fluctuations in the price of oil and natural gas, unless we enter into new hedging transactions. To the extent that the price of oil and natural gas decline below current levels, our results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely impacted. See the Derivative Activity section in Part I, Item I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a summary of our hedging activity.. Due to reduced commodity prices and lower operating cash flows we may be unable to maintain adequate liquidity and our ability to make interest payments in respect of any indebtedness could be adversely affected.. Oil, natural gas and NGL prices have significantly declined since mid-2014 and have not regained previous highs. This continued depressed price environment caused a reduction in our available liquidity. We have substantial capital needs, including in connection with the continued development of our oil and gas assets. We may not have the ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations and, therefore, sufficient liquidity to meet our anticipated working capital, debt service and other liquidity needs.. Terrorist attacks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Terrorist attacks may significantly affect the energy industry, including our operations and those of our current and potential customers, as well as general economic conditions, consumer confidence and spending and market liquidity. Strategic targets, such as energy-related assets, may be at greater risk of future attacks than other targets in the United States. Our insurance may not protect it against such occurrences. Consequently, it is possible that any of these occurrences, or a combination of them, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We recently emerged from bankruptcy, which could adversely affect our business and relationships.. It is possible that our having filed for bankruptcy and our recent emergence from the Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings could adversely affect our business and relationships with customers, employees and suppliers. Due to uncertainties, many risks exist, including the following:. • key suppliers could terminate their relationship or require financial assurances or enhanced performance;. • the ability to renew existing contracts and compete for new business may be adversely affected;. • the ability to attract, motivate and/or retain key executives and employees may be adversely affected;. • employees may be distracted from performance of their duties or more easily attracted to other employment opportunities; and. • competitors may take business away from us, and our ability to attract and retain customers may be negatively impacted.. The occurrence of one or more of these events could have a material and adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and reputation. There can be no assurance that having been subject to bankruptcy protection will not adversely affect our operations in the future.. Our actual financial results after emergence from bankruptcy may not be comparable to our historical financial information as a result of the implementation of our reorganization plan and the transactions contemplated thereby and the adoption of fresh-start accounting.. In connection with the disclosure statement we filed with the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware (the \"Bankruptcy Court\"), and the hearing to consider confirmation of our Third Amended Joint Prepackaged Plan of Reorganization Under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, dated April 6, 2017 (the \"reorganization plan\"), we prepared projected financial. 36. Table of Contents. information to demonstrate to the Bankruptcy Court the feasibility of the reorganization plan and our ability to continue operations upon emergence from bankruptcy. Those projections were prepared solely for the purpose of the bankruptcy proceedings and have not been, and will not be, updated on an ongoing basis and should not be relied upon by investors. At the time they were prepared, the projections reflected numerous assumptions concerning anticipated future performance and with respect to prevailing and anticipated market and economic conditions that were and remain beyond our control and that may not materialize. Projections are inherently subject to substantial and numerous uncertainties and to a wide variety of significant business, economic and competitive risks and the assumptions underlying the projections and/or valuation estimates may prove to be wrong in material respects. Actual results will likely vary significantly from those contemplated by the projections. As a result, investors should not rely on these projections.. In addition, upon emergence from bankruptcy, we adopted fresh-start accounting, as a consequence of which our assets and liabilities were adjusted to fair value and our accumulated deficit was restated to zero. Accordingly, our future financial conditions and results of operations following our emergence are not comparable to the financial condition or results of operations reflected in our historical financial statements. The lack of comparable historical financial information may discourage investors from purchasing our common stock.. Upon emergence from bankruptcy, the composition of our board of directors changed significantly.. Pursuant to the reorganization plan, the composition of our board of directors changed significantly. Our board is made up of six directors, of which five had not previously served on our board. The new directors have different backgrounds, experiences and perspectives from those individuals who previously served on our board and, thus, may have different views on the issues that will determine our future. As a result, our future strategy and plans may differ materially from those of the past.. The successor credit facility has restrictive covenants that could limit our growth and our ability to finance our operations, fund capital needs, respond to changing conditions and engage in other business activities that may be in our best interests.. The successor credit facility contains restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our ability to borrow under the successor credit facility is subject to compliance with certain financial covenants, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios, including a minimum current ratio, a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio. In addition, the successor credit facility contains covenants that, among other things, limit our ability:. • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness;. •  issue preferred stock;. •  sell or transfer assets;. •  pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase capital stock;. •  repurchase or redeem subordinated debt;. • make certain acquisitions and investments;. • create or incur liens;. • engage in transactions with affiliates;. • enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from restricted subsidiaries to us;. • enter into sale-leaseback transactions;. • consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; and. • engage in certain business activities.. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our indebtedness. We would not have sufficient working capital to satisfy our debt obligations in the event of an acceleration of all or a significant portion of our outstanding indebtedness. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we are in compliance with all financial and non-financial covenants.. 37. Table of Contents. We may be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations imposed on us by the restrictive covenants contained in the successor credit facility. Our ability to comply with the financial ratios and financial condition tests under the successor credit facility may be affected by events beyond our control and, as a result, we may be unable to meet these ratios and financial condition tests. These financial ratio restrictions and financial condition tests could limit our ability to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a continued downturn in commodity prices, our business or the economy in general or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities.. Borrowings under the successor credit facility are limited by our borrowing base, which is subject to periodic redetermination.. Beginning on April 1, 2018, the borrowing base under the successor credit facility will be redetermined at least semiannually and up to one additional time between scheduled determinations upon request of us or lenders holding 66 2/3% of the aggregate commitments. Redeterminations are based upon a number of factors, including commodity prices and reserve levels. In addition, our lenders have substantial flexibility to reduce our borrowing base due to subjective factors. Upon a redetermination, we could be required to repay a portion of our bank debt to the extent our outstanding borrowings at such time exceed the redetermined borrowing base. We may not have sufficient funds to make such repayments, which could result in a default under the terms of the facility and an acceleration of the loans thereunder requiring us to negotiate renewals, arrange new financing or sell significant assets, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high-risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our future financial condition and results of operations will depend on the success of our exploitation, exploration, development and production activities. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil or natural gas production. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit drilling locations or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. For a discussion of the uncertainty involved in these processes, see Our estimated proved reserves and our ultimate number of prospective well development locations are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves below. Our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain before drilling commences. Overruns in budgeted expenditures are common risks that can make a particular project uneconomical. Further, many factors, including, but not limited to, the following, may result in substantial losses, including personal injury or loss of life, penalties, damage or destruction of property and equipment, and curtailments, delays or cancellations of our scheduled drilling projects:. • shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel;. • facility or equipment malfunctions;. • unexpected operational events;. • unanticipated environmental liabilities;. • pressure or irregularities in geological formations;. • adverse weather conditions, such as blizzards, ice storms, tornadoes, floods, and fires;. • reductions in oil and natural gas prices;. • delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements, such as permitting delays;. • proximity to and capacity of transportation facilities;. • title problems;. • safety concerns; and. • limitations in the market for oil and natural gas.. Our estimated proved reserves and our ultimate number of prospective well development locations are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.. 38. Table of Contents. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves and the production possible from our oil and gas wells is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to current and future economic conditions and commodity prices. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. See Estimated Proved Reserves under Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information about our estimated oil and natural gas reserves and the PV-10 (a non-GAAP financial measure) as of December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015.. In order to prepare our estimates, we must project production rates and the timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds, and given the current volatility in pricing, such assumptions are difficult to make. Although the reserve information contained herein is reviewed by independent reserve engineers, estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are inherently imprecise particularly as they relate to state-of-the-art technologies being employed such as the combination of hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling.. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our impairment charges. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.. The present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves will not necessarily be the same as the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves.. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves is the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, we based the estimated discounted future net revenues from our proved reserves on the unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month commodity prices for the preceding twelve months (after adjustment for location and quality differentials), without giving effect to derivative transactions. Actual future net revenues from our oil and natural gas properties will be affected by factors such as:. • actual prices we receive for oil and natural gas and hedging instruments;. • actual cost of development and production expenditures;. • the amount and timing of actual production;. • the amount and timing of future development costs;. • wellbore productivity realizations above or below type curve forecast models;. • the supply and demand of oil and natural gas; and. • changes in governmental regulations or taxation.. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing and amount of actual future net revenues from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor (the factor required by the SEC) used when calculating discounted future net revenues may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and natural gas industry in general.. As a result of the sustained decrease in prices for oil, natural gas and NGLs, we have taken write-downs of the carrying value of our properties and may be required to take further write-downs if oil and natural gas prices remain depressed or decline further or if we have substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, increases in our estimates of development costs or deterioration in our drilling results.. We review our proved oil and natural gas properties for impairment whenever events and circumstances indicate that a decline in the recoverability of their carrying value may have occurred. Based on specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, from time to time, we may be required to write-down the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties. A write-down constitutes a non-cash charge to earnings. Oil, natural gas and NGL prices have significantly declined since mid-2014 and have not regained previous highs. Additionally, given the history of price volatility in the oil and natural gas. 39. Table of Contents. markets, prices could remain depressed or decline further or other events may arise that would require us to record further impairments of the book values associated with oil and natural gas properties. Accordingly, we may incur significant impairment charges in the future which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and could reduce our earnings and stockholders' equity for the periods in which such charges are taken.. We intend to pursue the further development of our properties in the Wattenberg Field through horizontal drilling. Horizontal drilling operations can be more operationally challenging and costly relative to our historic vertical drilling operations.. Horizontal drilling is generally more complex and more expensive on a per well basis than vertical drilling. As a result, there is greater risk associated with a horizontal well drilling program. Risks associated with our horizontal drilling program include, but are not limited to, the following, any of which could materially and adversely impact the success of our horizontal drilling program and thus, our cash flows and results of operations:. • successfully drilling and maintaining the wellbore to planned total depth;. • landing our wellbore in the desired drilling zone;. • effectively controlling the level of pressure flowing from particular wells;. • staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation;. • running our casing the entire length of the wellbore;. • running tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal wellbore;. • fracture stimulating the planned number of stages;. • preventing downhole communications with other wells;. • successfully cleaning out the wellbore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage; and. • designing and maintaining efficient forms of artificial lift throughout the life of the well.. Ultimately, the success of these drilling and completion techniques can only be evaluated over time as more wells are drilled and production profiles are established over a sufficiently long time period. If our drilling results are less than anticipated or we are unable to execute our drilling program because of capital constraints, lease expirations, access to gathering systems, limited takeaway capacity or depressed natural gas and oil prices, the return on our investment in these areas may not be as attractive as anticipated. Further, as a result of any of these developments, we could incur material impairments of our oil and gas properties and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline in the future.. Our ability to produce natural gas and oil economically and in commercial quantities could be impaired if we are unable to acquire adequate supplies of water for our drilling operations or are unable to dispose of or recycle the water we use at a reasonable cost and in accordance with applicable environmental rules.. The hydraulic fracture stimulation process on which we depend to produce commercial quantities of oil and natural gas requires the use and disposal of significant quantities of water. Our inability to secure sufficient amounts of water (including during times of droughts), or to dispose of or recycle the water used in our operations, could adversely impact our operations. The imposition of new environmental initiatives and regulations could include restrictions on our ability to conduct certain operations such as hydraulic fracturing or disposal of waste, including, but not limited to, produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes associated with the exploration, development or production of natural gas. Compliance with environmental regulations and permit requirements governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing of wells may increase our operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or termination of our operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted, and all of which could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial condition.. The unavailability or high cost of additional drilling rigs, pressure pumping fleets, equipment, supplies, personnel and oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans within our budget and on a timely basis.. Shortages or the high cost of drilling rigs, pressure pumping fleets, equipment, supplies, personnel or oilfield services could delay or adversely affect our development and exploration operations or cause us to incur significant expenditures that. 40. Table of Contents. are not provided for in our capital budget, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and may lead to reduced liquidity and the inability to pay our liabilities as they come due.. Our exploration, development and exploitation projects require substantial capital expenditures. We may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to expiration of our leases or a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves or anticipated production volumes.. Our exploration, development and exploitation activities are capital intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures in our business for the development, exploitation, production and acquisition of oil and natural gas reserves. At this time, we intend to finance future capital expenditures primarily through cash flows provided by operating activities and borrowings under the successor credit facility. Declines in commodity prices coupled with our financing needs may require us to alter or increase our capitalization substantially through the issuance of additional equity securities, debt securities or the strategic sale of assets. The issuance of additional debt may require that a portion of our cash flows provided by operating activities be used for the payment of principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing our ability to use cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions. In addition, upon the issuance of certain debt securities (other than on a borrowing base redetermination date), our borrowing base under the successor credit facility would be reduced. The issuance of additional equity securities could have a dilutive effect on the value of our common stock.. Our cash flows provided by operating activities and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including:. • our proved reserves;. • the amount of oil and natural gas we are able to produce from existing wells;. • the prices at which our oil and natural gas are sold;. • the costs of developing and producing our oil and natural gas production;. • our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves;. • the ability and willingness of our banks to lend; and. • our ability to access the equity and debt capital markets.. If the borrowing base under the successor credit facility or if our revenues decrease as a result of lower oil or natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on favorable terms, or at all. If cash generated by operations or cash available under the successor credit facility is not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to development of our drilling locations, which in turn could lead to a possible expiration of our undeveloped leases and a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves, and an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Increased costs of capital could adversely affect our business.. Recent and continuing disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets may lead to an increase in interest rates or a contraction in credit availability, impacting our ability to finance our operations. Our business and operating results can be harmed by factors such as the terms and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in credit rating. Changes in any one or more of these factors could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our access to capital, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce our cash flows available for drilling, render us unable to replace reserves and production and place us at a competitive disadvantage.. Concentration of our operations in a few core areas may increase our risk of production loss.. Our assets and operations are concentrated in two core areas: the Wattenberg Field in Colorado and the Dorcheat Macedonia Field in southern Arkansas. These core areas currently provide approximately 98% of our current sales volumes and the vast majority of our development projects.. The Wattenberg and Dorcheat Macedonia Fields represent 80% and19%, respectively, of our 2017 total sales volumes. Because our operations are not as diversified geographically as some of our competitors, the success of our operations and our profitability may be disproportionately exposed to the effect of any regional events, including: fluctuations in prices of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs produced from wells in the area, accidents or natural disasters, restrictive governmental regulations and curtailment of production or interruption in the availability of gathering, processing or transportation infrastructure and services, and any resulting delays or interruptions of production from existing or planned new wells. Similarly, the concentration of our assets within a small number of producing formations exposes us to risks, such as changes in field-wide. 41. Table of Contents. rules, which could adversely affect development activities or production relating to those formations. In addition, in areas where exploration and production activities are increasing, as has been the case in recent years in the Wattenberg Field, we are subject to increasing competition for drilling rigs, oilfield equipment, services, supplies and qualified personnel, which may lead to periodic shortages or delays. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay our operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs.. We do not maintain business interruption (loss of production) insurance for our oil and gas producing properties. Loss of production or limited access to reserves in either of our core operating areas could have a significant negative impact on our cash flows and profitability.. We have limited control over activities on properties in which we own an interest but we do not operate, which could reduce our production and revenues.. We do not operate all of the properties in which we have an interest. As a result, we may have a limited ability to exercise influence over normal operating procedures, expenditures or future development of underlying properties and their associated costs. For all of the properties that are operated by others, we are dependent on their decision-making with respect to day-to-day operations over which we have little control. The failure of an operator of wells in which we have an interest to adequately perform operations, or an operator's breach of applicable agreements, could reduce production and revenues we receive from that well. The success and timing of our drilling and development activities on properties operated by others depend upon a number of factors outside of our control, including the timing and amount of capital expenditures, the available expertise and financial resources, the inclusion of other participants and the use of technology. Our lack of control over non-operated properties also makes it more difficult for us to forecast capital expenditures, revenues, production and related matters.. We are dependent on third party pipeline, trucking and rail systems to transport our production and, in the Wattenberg Field, gathering and processing systems to prepare our production. These systems have limited capacity and at times have experienced service disruptions. Curtailments, disruptions or lack of availability in these systems interfere with our ability to market the oil and natural gas we produce, and could materially and adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations.. Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory oil and natural gas transportation arrangements may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production getting to market. The marketability of our oil and natural gas and production, particularly from our wells located in the Wattenberg Field, depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of gathering, processing, pipeline, trucking and rail systems. The amount of oil and natural gas that can be produced and sold is subject to limitation in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, physical damage to the gathering or transportation system, or lack of contracted capacity on such systems. A portion of our production may also be interrupted, or shut in, from time to time for numerous other reasons, including as a result of accidents, maintenance, weather, field labor issues or disruptions in service. Curtailments and disruptions in these systems may last from a few days to several months. Any significant curtailment in gathering, processing or pipeline system capacity, significant delay in the construction of necessary facilities or lack of availability of transport, would interfere with our ability to market the oil and natural gas we produce, and could materially and adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations, and the expected results of our drilling program.. Currently, there are no natural gas pipeline systems that service wells in the North Park Basin, which is prospective for the Niobrara formation. In addition, we are not aware of any plans to construct a facility necessary to process natural gas produced from this basin. If neither we nor a third party constructs the required pipeline system and processing facility, we may not be able to fully develop our resources in the North Park Basin.. The development of our proved undeveloped reserves may take longer and may require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Therefore, our undeveloped reserves may not be ultimately developed or produced.. Approximately 47% of our total proved reserves were classified as proved undeveloped as of December 31, 2017. Development of these reserves may take longer and require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate or that may be available to us. Delays in the development of our reserves or increases in costs to drill and develop such reserves will reduce the value of our estimated proved undeveloped reserves and future net revenues estimated for such reserves and may result in some projects becoming uneconomic. In addition, delays in the development of reserves could cause us to have to reclassify our proved reserves as unproved reserves.. 42. Table of Contents. Unless we replace our oil and natural gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In general, production from oil and gas properties declines as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. Our current proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced and, therefore, our level of production and cash flows will be affected adversely unless we conduct successful exploration and development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves. Thus, our future oil and natural gas production and, therefore, our cash flow and income are highly dependent upon our level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. However, we cannot assure you that our future acquisition, development and exploration activities will result in any specific amount of additional proved reserves or that we will be able to drill productive wells at acceptable costs.. We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our oil and natural gas operations. Additionally, we may not be insured for, or our insurance may be inadequate to protect us against, these risks, including those related to our hydraulic fracturing operations.. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas, including, but not limited to, the possibility of:. • environmental hazards, such as spills, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, natural gas, hazardous air pollutants or other pollution into the environment, including soil, groundwater and shoreline contamination;. • releases of natural gas and hazardous air pollutants or other substances into the atmosphere (including releases at our gas processing facilities);. • hazards resulting from the presence of hydrogen sulfide (H2S) or other contaminants in natural gas we produce;. • abnormally pressured formations resulting in well blowouts, fires or explosions;. • mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oilfield drilling and service tools and casing collapse;. • cratering (catastrophic failure);. • downhole communication leading to migration of contaminants;. • personal injuries and death; and. • natural disasters.. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial losses to us as a result of:. • injury or loss of life;. • damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment;. • pollution and other environmental damage;. • regulatory investigations and penalties;. • suspension of our operations; and. • repair and remediation costs.. The presence of H2S, a toxic, flammable and colorless gas, is a common risk in the oil and gas industry and may be present in small amounts for brief periods from time to time at our well locations. Additionally, at one of our Arkansas properties, we produce a small amount of gas from four wells where we have identified the presence of H2S at levels that would be hazardous in the event of an uncontrolled gas release or unprotected exposure. In addition, our operations in Arkansas and Colorado are susceptible to damage from natural disasters such as flooding, wildfires, tornados and other natural phenomena and weather conditions, including extreme temperatures which involve increased risks of personal injury, property damage and marketing interruptions. The occurrence of one of these operating hazards may result in injury, loss of life, suspension of operations, environmental damage and remediation and/or governmental investigations and penalties. The payment of any of these liabilities could reduce, or even eliminate, the funds available for exploration and development, or could result in a loss of our properties.. 43. Table of Contents. As is customary in the oil and gas industry, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these potential risks and losses. Although we believe the coverage and amounts of insurance that we carry are consistent with industry practice, we do not have insurance protection against all risks that we face, because we choose not to insure certain risks, insurance is not available at a level that balances the costs of insurance and our desired rates of return, or actual losses exceed coverage limits. Insurance costs will likely continue to increase which could result in our determination to decrease coverage and retain more risk to mitigate those cost increases. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. If we incur substantial liability, and the damages are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits, then our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected.. Because hydraulic fracturing activities are part of our operations, they are covered by our insurance against claims made for bodily injury, property damage and clean-up costs stemming from a sudden and accidental pollution event. However, we may not have coverage if the operator is unaware of the pollution event and unable to report the \"occurrence\" to the insurance company within the required time frame. We also do not have coverage for gradual, long-term pollution events.. Under certain circumstances, we have agreed to indemnify third parties against losses resulting from our operations. Pursuant to our surface leases, we typically indemnify the surface owner for clean-up and remediation of the site. As owner and operator of oil and gas wells and associated gathering systems and pipelines, we typically indemnify the drilling contractor for pollution emanating from the well, while the contractor indemnifies us against pollution emanating from its equipment.. Drilling locations that we decide to drill may not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities.. We describe some of our drilling locations and our plans to explore those drilling locations in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our drilling locations are in various stages of evaluation, ranging from a location that is ready to drill to a location that will require substantial additional evaluation. There is no way to predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular location will yield oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable. Prior to drilling, the use of 2-D and 3-D seismic technologies, various other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in sufficient quantities to be economically viable. In addition, the use of 2-D and 3-D seismic data and other technologies requires greater pre-drilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies, and we could incur greater drilling and testing expenses as a result of such expenditures which may result in a reduction in our returns or increase our losses. Even if sufficient amounts of oil or natural gas exist, we may damage the potentially productive hydrocarbon bearing formation or experience mechanical difficulties while drilling or completing the well, resulting in a reduction in production from the well or abandonment of the well. If we drill any dry holes in our current and future drilling locations, our profitability and the value of our properties will likely be reduced. We cannot assure you that the analogies we draw from available data from other wells, more fully explored locations or producing fields will be applicable to our drilling locations. Further, initial production rates reported by us or other operators may not be indicative of future or long-term production rates. In sum, the cost of drilling, completing and operating any well is often uncertain, and new wells may not be productive.. Our potential drilling locations are scheduled to be developed over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. In addition, we may not be able to raise the substantial amount of capital that would be necessary to drill a substantial portion of our potential drilling locations.. Our management has identified and scheduled drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. These potential drilling locations, including those without proved undeveloped reserves, represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations is subject to a number of uncertainties, including uncertainty in the level of reserves, the availability of capital to us and other participants, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, oil, natural gas and NGL prices, availability of permits, costs and drilling results. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the numerous potential drilling locations we have identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce oil or natural gas from these or any other potential drilling locations. Pursuant to existing SEC rules and guidance, subject to limited exceptions, proved undeveloped reserves may only be booked if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years of the date of booking, and we may therefore be required to downgrade to probable or possible any proved undeveloped reserves that are not developed within this five-year time frame. These limitations may limit our potential to book additional proved undeveloped reserves as we pursue our drilling program.. Certain of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that will expire over the next several years unless production is established on units containing the acreage.. The terms of our oil and gas leases often stipulate that the lease will terminate if not held by production, rentals, or some form of an extension payment to extend the term of the lease. As of the filing date of this report, the majority of our acreage in Arkansas was held by unitization, production, or drilling operations and therefore not subject to lease expiration. As. 44. Table of Contents. of the filing date of this report, approximately 10,425 net acres of our properties in the Rocky Mountain region were not held by production. For these properties, if production in paying quantities is not established on units containing these leases during the next year, then approximately 4,063 net acres will, unless otherwise extended, expire in 2018, approximately 649 net acres will expire in 2019, and approximately 5,713 net acres will expire in 2020 and thereafter. While some expiring leases may contain predetermined extension payments, other expiring leases will require us to negotiate new leases at the time of lease expiration. It is possible that market conditions at the time of negotiation could require us to agree to new leases on less favorable terms to us than the terms of the expired leases. If our leases expire, we will lose our right to develop the related properties.. We may incur losses as a result of title deficiencies.. The existence of a title deficiency can diminish the value of an acquired leasehold interest and can adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Title insurance covering mineral leasehold interests is not generally available. As is industry standard, we may rely upon a land professional's careful examination of public records prior to purchasing or leasing a mineral interest. Once a mineral or leasehold interest has been acquired, we typically defer the expense of obtaining further title verification by a practicing title attorney until approval to drill that includes the acquired mineral interest is required. We perform the necessary curative work to correct deficiencies in the marketability of the title and we have compliance and control measures to ensure any associated business risk is approved by the appropriate Company authority. In cases involving more serious title deficiencies, all or part of a mineral or leasehold interest may be determined to be invalid or unleased, and, as a result, the target area may be deemed to be undrillable until owners can be contacted and curative measures performed to adequately perfect title. In other cases, title deficiencies may result in our failure to have paid royalty owners correctly. Certain title deficiencies may also result in litigation to quiet the title and effectively agree or render a decision upon title ownership.. We face various risks associated with the long-term trend toward increased activism against oil and gas exploration and development activities.. Opposition toward oil and gas drilling and development activity has been growing globally. Companies in the oil and gas industry are often the target of activist efforts from both individuals and non-governmental organizations regarding safety, environmental compliance and business practices. Anti-development activists are working to, among other things, reduce access to federal and state government lands and delay or cancel certain projects such as the development of oil or gas shale plays. For example, environmental activists continue to advocate for increased regulations or bans on shale drilling in the United States, even in jurisdictions that are among the most stringent in their regulation of the industry. Further efforts could result in the following:. • delay or denial of drilling permits;. • shortening of lease terms or reduction in lease size;. • restrictions on installation or operation of production, gathering or processing facilities;. • mandatory and lengthy distances between drilling locations and buildings and/or bodies of water;. • restrictions on the use of certain operating practices, such as hydraulic fracturing, or the disposal of related waste materials, such as hydraulic fracturing fluids and produced water;. • increased severance and/or other taxes;. • cyber-attacks;. • legal challenges or lawsuits;. • negative publicity about us or the oil and gas industry in general;. • increased costs of doing business;. • reduction in demand for our products; and. • other adverse effects on our ability to develop our properties and expand production.. We may need to incur significant costs associated with responding to these initiatives. Complying with any resulting additional legal or regulatory requirements that are substantial could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 45. Table of Contents. We are subject to health, safety and environmental laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities.. We are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing health and safety aspects of our operations, the discharge of materials into the environment and the protection of the environment. These laws and regulations may impose on our operations numerous requirements, including the obligation to obtain a permit before conducting drilling or underground injection activities; restrictions on the types, quantities and concentration of materials that may be released into the environment; limitations or prohibitions of drilling activities that impact threatened or endangered species or that occur on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other sensitive or protected areas; the application of specific health and safety criteria to protect workers; and the responsibility for cleaning up pollution resulting from operations. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the EPA and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly actions. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties; the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations; the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations; delays in granting permits, or even the cancellation of leases.. There is an inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in the performance of our operations, some of which may be material, due to our handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes, our emissions into air and water, the underground injection or other disposal of our wastes, the use and disposition of hydraulic fracturing fluids, and historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. Under certain environmental laws and regulations, we may be liable for the full cost of removing or remediating contamination, regardless of whether we were at fault, and even when multiple parties contributed to the release and the contaminants were released in compliance with all applicable laws then in effect. In addition, accidental spills or releases on or off our properties may expose us to significant liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Aside from government agencies, the owners of properties where our wells are located, the owners or operators of facilities where our petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal or otherwise come to be located, and other private parties may be able to sue us to enforce compliance with environmental laws and regulations, collect penalties for violations, or obtain damages for any related personal injury, or damage and property damage and certain trustees may seek natural resource damages. Some sites we operate are located near current or former third-party oil and natural gas operations or facilities, and there is a risk that historic contamination has migrated from those sites to ours. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance or may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our own results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance.. Evolving environmental legislation or regulatory initiatives, including those related to hydraulic fracturing, could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays.. We are subject to extensive federal, state, and local laws and regulations concerning health, safety, and environmental protection. Governmental authorities frequently add to those requirements, and both oil and gas development generally, and hydraulic fracturing specifically, are receiving increasing regulatory attention. Our operations utilize hydraulic fracturing, an important and commonly used process in the completion of oil and natural gas wells in low-permeability formations. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, proppant, and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate hydrocarbon production.. In May 2016, the EPA issued amended New Source Performance Standards under the federal Clean Air Act (CAA).  These regulations, known as \"Quad Oa,\" focused on achieving reductions in methane and volatile organic compound emissions at oil and natural gas operations. These rules, among other things, require leak detection and repair, additional control requirements for pneumatic controllers and pumps, and additional control requirements for oil well completions, gathering, boosting, and compressor stations. On May 26, 2017, the EPA announced a 90-day stay of certain portions of the Quad Oa standards, which stay was vacated in part by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit on July 3, 2017. The EPA also proposed a two-year stay of the certain portions of the Quad Oa standards on June 12, 2017, which stay is currently under consideration and the court emphasized is not impacted by its July 3, 2017 decision. At this point, we cannot predict the cost to comply with such air regulatory requirements or the timing of their implementation.. On December 17, 2014, the EPA proposed to revise and lower the existing 75 ppb National Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) for ozone under the CAA to a range within 65-70 ppb. On October 1, 2015, EPA finalized a rule lowering the standard to 70 ppb. This lowered ozone NAAQS could result in an expansion of ozone nonattainment areas across the United States, including areas in which we operate. In a related development, in 2015, the State of Colorado received a bump-up to its existing ozone non-attainment status from \"marginal\" to \"moderate.\" This increase in status will result in additional requirements under the CAA for the State of Colorado and will include a state rulemaking to implement such requirements.. 46. Table of Contents. This rulemaking process started in early 2017 and is ongoing. Oil and natural gas operations in ozone nonattainment areas may be subject to increased regulatory burdens in the form of more stringent emission controls, emission offset requirements, and increased permitting delays and costs.. In February 2014, the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment's Air Quality Control Commission (AQCC) finalized regulations imposing strict new requirements relating to air emissions from oil and gas facilities in Colorado that are even more stringent than comparable federal rules. These new Colorado rules include storage tank control, monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting requirements as well as leak detection and repair requirements for both well production facilities and compressor stations and associated equipment. These new requirements, which represent the first time a state has directly regulated methane emissions from the upstream oil and gas sector, have and will continue to impose additional costs on our operations.. The EPA also published Control Technique Guidelines (CTGs) in October 2016 aimed at providing states with guidance and setting a presumptive floor for Reasonably Achievable Control Technology (RACT) for the oil and gas industry in areas of ozone non-attainment, including the Denver Metro/North Front Range 8-hour Ozone Non-Attainment area (DM/NFR area). In November 2017, in response to the recently published CTGS, the Colorado AQCC adopted additional air quality regulations that increased control, monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements on operations in the state.. Some activists have attempted to link hydraulic fracturing to various environmental problems, including potential adverse effects to drinking water supplies, migration of methane and other hydrocarbons into groundwater, and increased seismic activity. The federal government is studying the environmental risks associated with hydraulic fracturing and evaluating whether to adopt additional regulatory requirements. For example, the EPA has commenced a multi-year study of the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources, which was finalized in December 2016 and concludes drinking water resources can be affected by hydraulic fracturing under specific circumstances. In addition, in 2011, the EPA announced its intention to propose regulations under the federal Clean Water Act to regulate wastewater discharges from hydraulic fracturing and other natural gas production. EPA finalized these rules on June 28, 2016 and extended the compliance date for these rules until August 29, 2019. The EPA also has issued guidance for issuing underground injection permits for hydraulic fracturing operations that use diesel fuel under the agency's Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA) authority.. Moreover, the U.S. Department of the Interior finalized new rules for hydraulic fracturing activities on federal lands that, in general, would cover disclosure of fracturing fluid components, wellbore integrity, and handling of flowback water. The rule was stayed pending the outcome of litigation, but the 10th Circuit Court of Appeals dismissed the appeal from the decision vacating the rule and the underlying case on September 21, 2017 in light of the proposed rescission of those rules by the current administration. It is unclear whether the rule remains in effect, and industry groups have filed for a rehearing of the appeal. Responses to the rehearing requests were due on November 20, 2017. On December 29, 2017, the BLM issued a rescission of the hydraulic fracturing rule.  BLM's rescission and the rule are also now the subject of ongoing litigation.. The BLM also proposed rules to address venting and flaring of methane on BLM land, which the U.S. House of Representatives has passed a bill to repeal, and the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration has proposed stricter standards for worker exposure to silica, which would apply to use of sand as a proppant for hydraulic fracturing. Additionally, Department of the Interior (the parent department of BLM) announced in October 2017 that it would delay the effectiveness of the BLM methane rules that were to become effective in January 2018. Recently, a Federal district court in Northern California granted a preliminary injunction to prevent BLM's planned stay. The rule is currently in effect but is also subject to ongoing litigation and rulemaking, which could result in a rescission or substantial rewrite.. Apart from these ongoing federal initiatives, state governments where we operate have moved to impose stricter requirements on hydraulic fracturing and other aspects of oil and gas production. Colorado, for example, comprehensively updated its oil and gas regulations in 2008 and adopted significant additional amendments in 2011, 2014 and 2015. In early 2016, COGCC finalized a rulemaking to implement rules applicable to the permitting of large-scale oil and gas facilities in urban mitigation areas and rules requiring operators to register with and provide operational information to municipalities prior to conducting oil and gas operations with notice prior to engaging in certain operations. Colorado also finalized new rules regulating flowlines used in oil and gas operations on February 18, 2018. The new rules include: increased registration requirements, flowline design requirements, integrity management requirements, leak detection programs and requirements for abandoned flowlines.. In some instances certain local governments are adopting new requirements on hydraulic fracturing and other oil and gas operations. Some counties in Colorado, for instance, have amended their land use regulations to impose new requirements on oil and gas development, while other local governments have entered memoranda of agreement with oil and gas producers to accomplish the same objective. In addition, voters in Colorado have proposed or advanced ballot initiatives restricting or banning oil and gas development in Colorado. Because a substantial portion of our operations and reserves are located in. 47. Table of Contents. Colorado, the risks we face with respect to such ballot initiatives are greater than other companies with more geographically diverse operations.. The adoption of future federal, state or local laws or implementing regulations imposing new environmental obligations on, or otherwise limiting, our operations could make it more difficult and more expensive to complete oil and natural gas wells, increase our costs of compliance and doing business, delay or prevent the development of certain resources (including especially shale formations that are not commercial without the use of hydraulic fracturing), or alter the demand for and consumption of our products and services. We cannot assure you that any such outcome would not be material, and any such outcome could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows and results of operations.. Climate change laws and regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce, while the physical effects of climate change could disrupt our production and cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects.. There is a growing belief that human-caused (anthropogenic) emissions of greenhouse gases (\"GHGs\") may be linked to climate change. Climate change and the costs that may be associated with its impacts and the regulation of GHGs have the potential to affect our business in many ways, including negatively impacting the costs we incur in providing our products and services and the demand for and consumption of our products and services (due to potential changes in both costs and weather patterns).. In May 2016, the EPA promulgated rules regarding criteria for aggregating multiple small surface sites into a single source for air-quality permitting purposes applicable to the oil and natural gas industry. This rule could cause small facilities, on an aggregate basis, to be deemed a major source, thereby triggering more stringent air permitting requirements.. The EPA also adopted regulations requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from specific categories of higher GHG emitting sources in the United States, including certain oil and natural gas production facilities, which include certain of our operations. Information in such report may form the basis for further GHG regulation. Further, the EPA has continued with its comprehensive strategy for further reducing methane emissions from oil and gas operations, with a final rule being issued in May 2016 as part of \"Quad Oa\" discussed above. The EPA's GHG rules could adversely affect our operations and restrict or delay our ability to obtain air permits for new or modified facilities.. In August of 2015, the EPA finalized rules to further reduce GHG emissions, primarily from coal-fired power plants, under its Clean Power Plan (\"CPP\"). On March 28, 2017, President Trump signed an Executive Order directing the EPA to review the CPP regulations. Following the Executive Order, on April 4, 2017, the EPA announced that it was formally reviewing the CPP. On October 9, 2017, the EPA published a proposed rule to repeal the Clean Power Plan. The comment period on the proposed rule is open until April 26, 2018. Following the comment period, EPA is expected to release a final rule.. In the meantime, many states already have taken such measures, which have included renewable energy standards, development of GHG emission inventories or cap and trade programs. Cap and trade programs typically work by requiring major sources of emissions or major producers of fuels to acquire and surrender emission allowances, with the number of available allowances reduced each year until the overall GHG emission reduction goal is achieved. These allowances would be expected to escalate significantly in cost over time.. The adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. If we are unable to recover or pass through a significant level of our costs related to complying with climate change regulatory requirements imposed on us, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the oil and natural gas we produce. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, making it more difficult for us to acquire properties, market oil and natural gas and secure trained personnel.. Our ability to acquire additional drilling locations and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend heavily on our financial resources and ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing equipment and trained personnel. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and natural gas industry. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours. Those companies. 48. Table of Contents. may be able to pay more for productive oil and natural gas properties and exploratory drilling locations or to identify, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and locations than our financial or personnel resources permit. Furthermore, these companies may also be better able to withstand unsuccessful drilling attempts, sustained periods of volatility in financial markets and generally adverse global and industry-wide economic conditions, and may be better able to absorb the burdens resulting from changes in relevant laws and regulations, which would adversely affect our competitive position. In addition, companies may be able to offer better compensation packages to attract and retain qualified personnel than we are able to offer. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. If we fail to retain our existing senior management or technical personnel or attract qualified new personnel, such failure could adversely affect our operations. The volatility in commodity prices and business performance may affect our ability to retain senior management and the loss of these key employees may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These risks may be increased by the fact that we have not had a permanent chief executive officer since June 2017.. To a large extent, we depend on the services of our senior management and technical personnel. The loss of the services of our senior management, technical personnel, or any of the vice presidents of the Company, could have a material adverse effect on our operations or strategy. The volatility in commodity prices and our business performance may affect our ability to incentivize and retain senior management or key employees. Competition for experienced senior management, technical and other professional personnel remains strong. Further, our ability to incentivize and retain senior management and key employees, as well as our ability to attract new senior management and key employees, may be harmed by the fact that we have not had a permanent chief executive officer since June 2017.. If we cannot retain our current personnel or attract additional experienced personnel, our ability to compete could be adversely affected. Also, the loss of experienced personnel could lead to a loss of technical expertise. We do not maintain, nor do we plan to obtain, any insurance against the loss of any of these individuals.. Our derivative activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our income.. To achieve more predictable cash flows and to reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas, we may in the future enter into derivative arrangements for a portion of our oil and natural gas production, including collars and fixed-price swaps. We have not in the past designated any of our derivative instruments as hedges for accounting purposes and have recorded all derivative instruments on our balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of our derivative instruments are recognized in earnings. Accordingly, our earnings may fluctuate significantly as a result of changes in the fair value of our derivative instruments.. Derivative arrangements also expose us to the risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when:. • production is less than the volume covered by the derivative instruments;. • the counterparty to the derivative instrument defaults on its contract obligations; or. • there is an increase in the differential between the underlying price in the derivative instrument and actual prices received.. In addition, these types of derivative arrangements may limit the benefit we would receive from increases in the prices for oil and natural gas and may expose us to cash margin requirements.. We are exposed to credit risks of our hedging counterparties, third parties participating in our wells and our customers.. Our principal exposures to credit risk are through receivables resulting from commodity derivatives instruments, which were $0.5 million at December 31, 2017, joint interest and other receivables of $3.8 million at December 31, 2017 and the sale of our oil, natural gas and NGLs production of $28.5 million in receivables at December 31, 2017, which we market to energy marketing companies, refineries and affiliates.. Joint interest receivables arise from billing entities who own partial interest in the wells we operate. These entities participate in our wells primarily based on their ownership in leases on which we wish to drill. We can do very little to choose who participates in our wells.. We are also subject to credit risk due to concentration of our oil, natural gas and NGLs receivables with significant customers. This concentration of customers may impact our overall credit risk since these entities may be similarly affected by. 49. Table of Contents. changes in economic and other conditions. For the year ended December 31, 2017, sales to NGL Crude Logistics, LLC, Lion Oil Trading & Transportation, Inc., and Duke Energy Field Services comprised 44%, 18%, and 16%, respectively, of our total sales. Beginning in 2017 and continuing for seven years, we have contracted to sell all of our crude oil produced for a one-rig program in the Wattenberg Field to NGL Crude Logistics, LLC.. We are exposed to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty, principally with respect to hedging agreements but also insurance contracts and bank lending commitments. We do not require most of our customers to post collateral. The inability or failure of our significant customers to meet their obligations to us or their insolvency or liquidation may adversely affect our financial results.  Deterioration in the credit markets may impact the credit ratings of our current and potential counterparties and affect their ability to fulfill their existing obligations to us and their willingness to enter into future transactions with us.. Current or proposed financial legislation and rulemaking could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business.. The Dodd-Frank Act establishes, among other provisions, federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities that participate in that market. The Dodd-Frank Act also establishes margin requirements and certain transaction clearing and trade execution requirements. The Dodd-Frank Act may require us to comply with margin requirements in our derivative activities, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time. The financial reform legislation may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to separate entities, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparties.. The Dodd-Frank Act and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral, which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivative as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations, our results of operations may be more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures.. We may be involved in legal cases that may result in substantial liabilities.. Like many oil and gas companies, we are from time to time involved in various legal and other cases, such as title, royalty or contractual disputes, regulatory compliance matters and personal injury or property damage matters, in the ordinary course of our business. Such legal cases are inherently uncertain and their results cannot be predicted. Regardless of the outcome, such cases could have an adverse impact on us because of legal costs, diversion of management and other personnel and other factors. In addition, it is possible that a resolution of one or more such cases could result in liability, penalties or sanctions, as well as judgments, consent decrees or orders requiring a change in our business practices, which could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Accruals for such liability, penalties or sanctions may be insufficient. Judgments and estimates to determine accruals or range of losses related to legal and other cases could change from one period to the next, and such changes could be material.. We are subject to federal, state, and local taxes, and may become subject to new taxes and certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation.. The federal, state and local governments in the areas in which we operate impose taxes on the oil and natural gas products we sell, and, for many of our wells, sales and use taxes on significant portions of our drilling and operating costs.  Many states have raised state taxes on energy sources or state taxes associated with the extraction of hydrocarbons and additional increases may occur.  In addition, there has been a significant amount of discussion by legislators and presidential administrations concerning a variety of energy tax proposals.. There have been proposals for legislative changes that, if enacted into law, would eliminate certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. Such changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties; (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs; (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain U.S. production activities; and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted and, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective. Any such changes in U.S. federal income tax law could eliminate or defer certain tax deductions within the industry that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such change could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. 50. Table of Contents. Changes to federal tax deductions, as well as any changes to or the imposition of new state or local taxes (including production, severance or similar taxes) could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to cyber security risks. A cyber incident could occur and result in information theft, data corruption, operational disruption or financial loss.. The oil and gas industry has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies to conduct certain exploration, development, production, processing and distribution activities. For example, we depend on digital technologies to interpret seismic data, manage drilling rigs, production equipment and gathering and transportation systems, conduct reservoir modeling and reserves estimation and process and record financial and operating data. Pipelines, refineries, power stations and distribution points for both fuels and electricity are becoming more interconnected by computer systems. At the same time, cyber incidents, including deliberate attacks or unintentional events, have increased. Our technologies, systems, networks and those of our vendors, suppliers and other business partners may become the target of cyber-attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of proprietary and other information, or other disruption of our business operations. In addition, weaknesses in the cyber security of our vendors, suppliers, and other business partners could facilitate an attack on our technologies, systems and networks. In addition, certain cyber incidents, such as surveillance, may remain undetected for an extended period. Given the politically sensitive nature of hydraulic fracturing and the controversy generated by its opponents, our technologies, systems and networks may be of particular interest to certain groups with political agendas, which may seek to launch cyber-attacks as a method of promoting their message. Our systems and insurance coverage for protecting against cyber security risks may not be sufficient.. We depend on digital technology, including information systems and related infrastructure, as well as cloud applications and services, to process and record financial and operating data, communicate with our employees and business parties, analyze seismic and drilling information, estimate quantities of oil and gas reserves as well as other activities related to our business. Our business partners, including vendors, service providers, purchasers of our production and financial institutions, are also dependent on digital technology. The technologies needed to conduct our oil and gas exploration and development activities make certain information the target of theft or misappropriation.. Although to date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber-attacks, we may suffer such losses in the future.. Risks Relating to our Common Stock. We do not intend to pay, and we are currently prohibited from paying, dividends on our common stock and, consequently, our stockholders' only opportunity to achieve a return on their investment is if the price of our stock appreciates.. We do not plan to declare dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Additionally, we are currently prohibited from making any cash dividends pursuant to the terms of our successor credit facility. Consequently, our stockholders' only opportunity to achieve a return on their investment in us will be if the market price of our common stock appreciates, which may not occur, and the stockholders sell their shares at a profit. There is no guarantee that the price of our common stock will ever exceed the price that the stockholders paid.. We have experienced recent volatility in the market price and trading volume of our common stock and may continue to do so in the future.. The trading price of shares of our common stock has fluctuated widely and in the future may be subject to similar fluctuations. As an example, during the period between May 1, 2017 (the first trading day following our emergence from bankruptcy) and December 31, 2017, the sales price of our common stock ranged from a low of $23.33 per share to a high of $40.60 per share. The trading price of our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including our bankruptcy proceeding, the volatility of oil, natural gas, and NGL prices, our operating results, changes in our earnings estimates, additions or departures of key personnel, our financial condition and liquidity, drilling activities, legislative and regulatory changes, general conditions in the oil and natural gas exploration and development industry, general economic conditions, and general conditions in the securities markets. In particular, a significant or extended decline in oil, natural gas and NGL prices could have a material adverse effect our sales price of our common stock. Other risks described in this annual report could also materially and adversely affect our share price.. Although our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, we cannot assure you that an active public market will continue for our common stock or that will be able to continue to meet the listing requirements of the NYSE. If an active public market for our common stock does not continue, the trading price and liquidity of our common stock will be materially and adversely affected. If there is a thin trading market or \"float\" for our stock, the market price for our common stock may fluctuate significantly more than the stock market as a whole. Without a large float, our common stock would be less. 51. Table of Contents. liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership and, as a result, the trading prices of our common stock may be more volatile. In addition, in the absence of an active public trading market, investors may be unable to liquidate their investment in us.. There is a limited trading market for our securities and the market price of our securities is subject to volatility.. Upon emergence from bankruptcy, our common stock was canceled and we issued new common stock. The market price of the new common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to, and the level of trading that develops with the new common stock may be affected by, numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among other things, our new capital structure as a result of the transactions contemplated by the reorganization plan, our limited trading history subsequent to our emergence from bankruptcy, our limited trading volume, the concentration of holdings of our new common stock, the lack of comparable historical financial information due to our adoption of fresh-start accounting, actual or anticipated variations in our operating results and cash flow, the nature and content of our earnings releases, announcements or events that impact our products, customers, competitors or markets, business conditions in our markets and the general state of the securities markets and the market for energy-related stocks, as well as general economic and market conditions and other factors that may affect our future results.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Delaware law, contain provisions that could discourage acquisition bids or merger proposals, even if such acquisition or merger may be in our stockholders' best interests.. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. If our board of directors elects to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders, including:. • advance notice provisions for stockholder proposals and nominations for elections to the board of directors to be acted upon at meetings of stockholders; and. • limitations on the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings or act by written consent.. Delaware law prohibits us from engaging in any business combination with any \"interested stockholder,\" meaning generally that a stockholder who beneficially owns more than 15% of our stock cannot acquire us for a period of three years from the date this person became an interested stockholder, unless various conditions are met, such as approval of the transaction by our board of directors."
