[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investors should carefully consider the risks set forth below and all other information contained in this report and other documents we file with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material, but are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies, such as market conditions, geopolitical events, changes in laws or accounting rules, fluctuations in interest rates, terrorism, wars or conflicts, major health concerns, natural disasters or other disruptions of expected economic or business conditions. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business and financial results.. Business Risks. Failure to compete effectively or to successfully execute our strategy may have a negative impact on our business and financial results.. We actively compete with companies that produce and market the same or similar products, and in some instances, with companies that sell different products that are designed for the same end user. Competition may force us to reduce prices or incur additional costs to remain competitive in an environment in which business models are changing rapidly. We compete on the basis of several factors, including customer support, product innovation, product offering, product quality, price, expertise, digital capabilities, production capabilities, and for multinational customers, our global footprint. Present or future competitors may develop and introduce new and enhanced products, offer products based on alternative technologies and processes, accept lower profit, have greater financial, technical or other resources, or have lower production costs or other pricing advantages. Any of these could put us at a disadvantage by threatening our share of sales or reducing our profit margins, which could adversely impact our business and financial results.. Additionally, throughout our global business, distributors and customers may seek lower cost sourcing opportunities, which could result in a loss of business that may adversely impact our business and financial results.. Our strategy is to expand into higher-growth adjacent product categories and markets with technologically advanced new products, as well as to grow our sales generated through the digital channel. While traditional direct marketing channels such as catalogs are an important means of selling our products, an increasing number of customers are purchasing products on the internet. Our strategy to increase sales through the digital channel is an investment in our internet sales capabilities. There is a risk that we may not continue to successfully implement this strategy, or if successfully implemented, not realize its expected benefits due to the continued levels of increased competition and pricing pressure brought about by the internet. Our failure to successfully implement our strategy could adversely impact our business and financial results.. 6. Table of Contents. Failure to develop technologically advanced products that meet customer demands, including price expectations, could adversely impact our business and financial results.. Development of technologically advanced new products is targeted as a driver of our organic growth and profitability. Technology is changing rapidly and our competitors are innovating quickly. If we do not keep pace with developing technologically advanced products, we risk product commoditization, deterioration of the value of our brand, and reduced ability to effectively compete. We must continue to develop innovative products, as well as acquire and retain the necessary intellectual property rights in these products. If we fail to make innovations, or we launch products with quality problems, or if customers do not accept our products, then our business and financial results could be adversely affected.. Our failure or the failure of third-party service providers to protect our sites, networks and systems against security breaches, or otherwise to protect our confidential information, could adversely affect our business and financial results.. Our business systems collect, maintain, transmit and store data about our customers, vendors and others, including credit card information and personally identifiable information, as well as other confidential and proprietary information. We also employ third-party service providers that store, process and transmit proprietary, personal and confidential information on our behalf. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties in an effort to securely transmit confidential and sensitive information, including credit card numbers. Our security measures, and those of our third-party service providers, may not detect or prevent all attempts to hack our systems, denial-of-service attacks, viruses, malicious software, break-ins, phishing attacks, social engineering, security breaches or other attacks and similar disruptions that may jeopardize the security of information stored in or transmitted by our sites, networks and systems or that we or our third-party service providers otherwise maintain.. We and our service providers may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent all types of attacks, and techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or sabotage systems change frequently and may not be known until launched against us or our third-party service providers. In addition, security breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues, including intentional or inadvertent breaches by our employees or by persons with whom we have commercial relationships. Although we maintain privacy, data breach and network security liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate or cover liabilities actually incurred, or that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all. Any compromise or breach of our security measures, or those of our third-party service providers, could adversely impact our ability to conduct business, violate applicable privacy, data security and other laws, and cause significant legal and financial exposure, adverse publicity, and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results.. Demand for our products may be adversely affected by numerous factors, some of which we cannot predict or control. This could adversely affect our business and financial results.. Numerous factors may affect the demand for our products, including:. • Future economic conditions of major markets served.. • Consolidation in the marketplace allowing competitors and customers to be more efficient and more price competitive.. • Future competitors entering the marketplace.. • Decreasing product life cycles.. • Changes in customer preferences.. • Ability to achieve operational excellence.. If any of these factors occur, the demand for our products could suffer, and this could adversely impact our business and financial results.. The loss of large customers or a significant reduction in sales to large customers could adversely affect our business and financial results.. While we have a broad customer base and no individual customer represents 10% or more of total sales, we conduct business with several large customers and distribution companies. Our dependence on these customers makes relationships with them important. We cannot guarantee that these relationships will be retained in the future. Because these large customers account for a significant portion of sales, they may possess a greater capacity to negotiate reduced prices. If we are unable to provide products to our customers at the quality and prices acceptable to them, some of our customers may shift their business to competitors or may substitute another manufacturer's products. If one of our large customers consolidates, is acquired, or loses market share, the result of that event may have an adverse impact on our business. The loss of or reduction of business from one or more of these large customers could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results.. 7. Table of Contents. We are a global company headquartered in the United States. We are subject to extensive regulations by U.S. and non-U.S. governmental and self-regulatory entities at various levels of the governing bodies. Failure to comply with laws and regulations could adversely affect our business and financial results.. Our operations are subject to the risks of doing business domestically and globally, including the following:. • Delays or disruptions in product deliveries and payments in connection with international manufacturing and sales.. • Regulations resulting from political and economic instability and disruptions.. • Imposition of new, or change in existing, duties, tariffs and trade agreements.. • Import, export and economic sanction laws.. • Current and changing governmental policies, regulatory, and business environments.. • Disadvantages from competing against companies from countries that are not subject to U.S. laws and regulations including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.. • Local labor regulations.. • Regulations relating to climate change, air emissions, wastewater discharges, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes.. • Regulations relating to product content, health, safety and the protection of the environment.. • Specific country regulations where our products are manufactured or sold.. • Regulations relating to compliance with data protection and privacy laws throughout our global business.. • Laws and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government, including audit requirements of government contracts related to procurement integrity, export control, employment practices, and the accuracy of records and recording of costs.. Further, these laws and regulations are constantly evolving and it is difficult to accurately predict the effect they may have upon our business and financial results.. We cannot provide assurance that our internal controls and compliance systems will always protect us from acts committed by employees, agents or business partners that would violate U.S. and/or non-U.S. laws, including the laws governing payments to government officials, bribery, fraud, anti-kickback and false claims rules, competition, export and import compliance, money laundering and data privacy. Any such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions, lead to substantial civil or criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and related lawsuits by shareholders and others, damage our reputation, and adversely impact our business and financial results.. We depend on key employees and the loss of these individuals could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results.. Our success depends to a large extent upon the continued services of our key executives, managers and other skilled employees. We cannot ensure that we will be able to retain our key executives, managers and employees. The departure of key personnel without adequate replacement could disrupt our business operations. Additionally, we need qualified managers and skilled employees with technical and industry experience to operate our business successfully. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified individuals or our costs to do so increase significantly, our business and financial results could be adversely affected.. Divestitures, contingent liabilities from divested businesses and the failure to properly identify, integrate and grow acquired companies could adversely affect our business and financial results.. We continually assess the strategic fit of our existing businesses and may divest businesses that we determine do not align with our strategic plan, or that are not achieving the desired return on investment. Divestitures pose risks and challenges that could negatively impact our business. When we decide to sell a business or assets, we may be unable to do so on satisfactory terms and within our anticipated time-frame, and even after reaching a definitive agreement to sell a business, the sale is typically subject to pre-closing conditions which may not be satisfied. In addition, the impact of the divestiture on our revenue and net earnings may be larger than projected, which could distract management, and disputes may arise with buyers. We have retained responsibility for and have agreed to indemnify buyers against certain contingent liabilities related to a number of businesses that we have sold. The resolution of these contingencies has not had a material adverse impact on our financial results, but we cannot be certain that this favorable pattern will continue.. Our historical growth has included acquisitions, and our future growth strategy may include acquisitions. If our future growth strategy includes a focus on acquisitions, we may not be able to identify acquisition targets or successfully complete acquisitions due to the absence of quality companies in our target markets, economic conditions, or price expectations from sellers. Acquisitions place significant demands on management, operational, and financial resources. Future acquisitions will require integration of operations, sales and marketing, information technology, and administrative operations, which could decrease the time available to focus on our other growth strategies. We cannot assure that we will be able to successfully integrate acquisitions, that these. 8. Table of Contents. acquisitions will operate profitably, or that we will be able to achieve the desired sales growth or operational success. Our business and financial results could be adversely affected if we do not successfully integrate the newly acquired businesses, or if our other businesses suffer due to the increased focus on the acquired businesses.. We are subject to litigation, including product liability claims that could adversely impact our business, financial results, and reputation.. We are a party to litigation that arises in the normal course of our business operations, including product warranty, product liability and recall (strict liability and negligence) claims, patent and trademark matters, contract disputes and environmental, employment and other litigation matters. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability and warranty claims in the event that the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in injury or other damage. In addition, we face an inherent risk that our competitors will allege that aspects of our products infringe their intellectual property or that our intellectual property is invalid, such that we could be prevented from manufacturing and selling our products or prevented from stopping others from manufacturing and selling competing products. To date, we have not incurred material costs related to these types of claims. However, while we currently maintain insurance coverage in amounts that we believe are adequate, we cannot be sure that we will be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms or that this insurance will provide sufficient coverage against potential liabilities that may arise. Any claims brought against us, with or without merit, may have an adverse effect on our business, financial results and reputation as a result of potential adverse outcomes. The expenses associated with defending such claims and the diversion of our management's resources and time may have an adverse effect on our business and financial results.. Failure to execute facility consolidations or maintain acceptable operational service metrics may adversely impact our business and financial results.. We continually assess our global footprint and expect to implement additional measures to reduce our cost structure, simplify our business, and standardize our processes, and these actions could result in unplanned operating costs and business disruptions in the future. In addition, the Company is reliant upon certain suppliers for certain raw or finished products. If we experience service disruptions with these suppliers, or if we fail to successfully address these inefficiencies, their effects could adversely impact our business and financial results.. Financial/Ownership Risks. The global nature of our business exposes us to foreign currency fluctuations that could adversely affect our business and financial results.. Approximately 50% of our sales are derived outside the United States. Sales and purchases in currencies other than the U.S. dollar expose us to fluctuations in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, and may adversely affect our financial results. Increased strength of the U.S. dollar will increase the effective price of our products sold in currencies other than U.S. dollars into other countries. Decreased strength of the U.S. dollar could adversely affect the cost of materials, products, and services purchased overseas. Our sales and expenses are translated into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes, and the strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar could result in unfavorable translation effects, which occurred during fiscal years 2016 and 2017. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries may invoice customers in a currency other than its functional currency or may be invoiced by suppliers in a currency other than its functional currency, which could result in unfavorable translation effects on our business and financial results.. Changes in tax legislation or tax rates could adversely affect results of operations and financial statements. Additionally, audits by taxing authorities could result in tax payments for prior periods.. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and in many non-U.S. jurisdictions. As such, our earnings are subject to risk due to changing tax laws and tax rates around the world. Our tax filings are subject to audit by U.S. federal, state and local tax authorities and by non-U.S. tax authorities. If these audits result in payments or assessments that differ from our reserves, our future net earnings may be adversely impacted.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Reform Act\"). The changes included in the Tax Reform Act are broad and complex. The final transition impacts of the Tax Reform Act may differ from the provisional estimates provided due to changes in interpretations, any legislative action to address questions that arise, any changes in accounting standards for income taxes or related interpretations, or any updates or changes to estimates we have utilized to calculate the transition impacts. Additionally, longstanding international tax norms that determine each country's jurisdiction to tax cross-border international trade are evolving as a result of the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting reporting requirements recommended by the G8, G20 and Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. As these and other tax laws and related regulations change, our financial results could be materially impacted. Given. 9. Table of Contents. the unpredictability of these possible changes and their potential interdependency, it is difficult to assess the overall effect of such potential tax changes on our earnings and cash flow, but such changes could adversely impact our financial results.. We review the probability of the realization of our deferred tax assets quarterly based on forecasts of taxable income in both the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. As part of this review, we utilize historical results, projected future operating results, eligible carry-forward periods, tax planning opportunities, and other relevant considerations. Adverse changes in profitability and financial outlook in both the U.S. and/or foreign jurisdictions, or changes in our geographic footprint may require changes in the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets. During the year ended July 31, 2018, we recorded a valuation allowance of $21.4 million against our foreign tax credit carryforwards primarily due to the passage of the Tax Reform Act, which modifies our ability to utilize foreign tax credits in future periods. At any point in time, there are a number of tax proposals at various stages of legislation throughout the globe. While it is impossible for us to predict whether some or all of these proposals will be enacted, it likely would have an impact on our results of operations and our consolidated financial statements.. Failure to execute our strategies could result in impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, which may negatively impact earnings and profitability.. We have goodwill of $419.8 million and other intangible assets of $42.6 million as of July 31, 2018, which represents 43.7% of our total assets. We evaluate goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if impairment indicators are present, based upon the fair value of each respective asset. These valuations include management's estimates of sales, profitability, cash flow generation, capital structure, cost of debt, interest rates, capital expenditures, and other assumptions. Significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, inability to achieve sales projections or cost savings, inability to effectively integrate acquired businesses, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets or in entity structure, and divestitures may adversely impact the assumptions used in the valuations. If the estimated fair value of our goodwill or other intangible assets change in future periods, we may be required to record an impairment charge, which would reduce the earnings in such period.. Substantially all of our voting stock is controlled by members of the Brady family, while our public investors hold non-voting stock. The interests of the voting and non-voting shareholders could differ, potentially resulting in decisions that unfavorably affect the value of the non-voting shares.. Substantially all of our voting stock is controlled by Elizabeth P. Bruno, one of our Directors, and William H. Brady III, both of whom are descendants of the Company's founder. All of our publicly traded shares are non-voting. Therefore, Ms. Bruno and Mr. Brady have control in most matters requiring approval or acquiescence by shareholders, including the composition of our Board of Directors and many corporate actions. Such concentration of ownership may discourage a potential acquirer from making a purchase offer that our public shareholders may find favorable, which in turn could adversely affect the market price of our common stock or prevent our shareholders from realizing a premium over our stock price. Certain mutual funds and index sponsors have implemented rules restricting ownership, or excluding from indices, companies with non-voting publicly traded shares. Furthermore, this concentration of voting share ownership may adversely affect the trading price for our non-voting common stock because investors may perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies whose voting stock is controlled by a limited number of shareholders.. Failure to meet certain financial covenants required by our debt agreements may adversely affect our business and financial results.. As of July 31, 2018, we had $52.6 million in outstanding indebtedness. In addition, based on the availability under our credit facilities as of July 31, 2018, we had the ability to borrow an additional $297.0 million under our revolving credit agreement. Our current revolving credit agreement and long-term debt obligations also impose certain restrictions on us. Refer to Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations within Item 7 for more information regarding our credit agreement and long-term debt obligations. If we breach any of these restrictions or covenants and do not obtain a waiver from the lenders then, subject to applicable cure periods, the outstanding indebtedness and any other indebtedness with cross-default provisions could be declared immediately due and payable, which could adversely affect our financial results."
