[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business and Properties. Our business is significantly influenced by the economies and other conditions in the specific markets in which we operate, particularly in the metropolitan areas where we have high concentrations of hotels.. Our hotels are located in the Washington D.C., San Francisco, San Diego, Seattle, Philadelphia, Tampa, Chicago, Key West, Vail/Beaver Creek and St. Thomas metropolitan areas. As a result, we are particularly susceptible to adverse market conditions in these areas and any additional areas in which we may acquire assets in the future, including industry downturns, relocation of businesses and any oversupply of hotel rooms or a reduction in lodging demand. Adverse economic developments in the markets in which we have a concentration of hotels, or in any of the other markets in which we operate, or any increase in hotel supply or decrease in lodging demand resulting from the local, regional or national business climate, could adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects.. Our investments are concentrated in the hotel industry, and our business would be adversely affected by an economic downturn in that sector.. Our investments are concentrated in the hotel industry. This concentration may expose us to the risk of economic downturns in the hotel real estate sector to a greater extent than if our properties were more diversified across other sectors of the real estate industry.. A financial crisis or economic slowdown may harm the operating performance of the hotel industry generally. If such events occur, we may be impacted by declines in occupancy, average daily room rates and/or other operating revenues.. The performance of the lodging industry has been closely linked with the performance of the general economy and, specifically, growth in the U.S. GDP. We invest in hotels that are classified as luxury. In an economic downturn, these types of hotels may be more susceptible to a decrease in revenue, as compared to hotels in other categories that have lower room rates. This characteristic may result from the fact that luxury hotels generally target business and high-end leisure travelers. In periods of economic difficulties, business and leisure travelers may seek to reduce travel costs by limiting travel or seeking to reduce costs on their trips. Any economic recession will likely have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and prospects.. We face risks related to changes in the global economic and political environment, including capital and credit markets.. Our business may be harmed by global economic conditions, which recently have been volatile. Political crises in individual countries or regions, including sovereign risk related to a deterioration in the creditworthiness of or a default by local governments, has contributed to this volatility. If the global economy experiences continued volatility or significant disruptions, such disruptions or volatility could hurt the U.S. economy and our business. More specifically, in addition to experiencing reduced demand for business and leisure travel because of a slow-down in the general economy, we could be harmed by disruptions resulting from tighter credit markets or by illiquidity resulting from an inability to access credit markets to obtain cash to support operations or make distributions to our stockholders as a result of global or international developments.. Failure of the hotel industry to exhibit sustained improvement or to improve as expected may adversely affect us.. A substantial part of our business plan is based on our belief that the lodging markets in which we invest will experience improving economic fundamentals in the future, despite the fact that fundamentals have already substantially improved over the last several years. In particular, our business strategy is dependent on our expectation that key industry performance indicators, especially RevPAR, will continue to improve. However, hotel industry fundamentals may not continue to improve and could deteriorate. In the event conditions in the industry do not sustain improvement or improve as we expect, or deteriorate, we may be adversely affected.. We invest in the luxury segments of the lodging market, which are highly competitive and generally subject to greater volatility than most other market segments and could negatively affect our profitability.. The luxury segments of the hotel business are highly competitive. Our hotel properties compete on the basis of location, room rates, quality, amenities, service levels, reputation and reservations systems, among many factors. There are many competitors in the luxury segments, and many of these competitors may have substantially greater marketing and financial resources than we have. This competition could reduce occupancy levels and rooms revenue at our hotels. Over-building in the lodging industry may increase the number of rooms available and may decrease occupancy and room rates. In addition, in periods of weak demand, as may occur during a general economic recession, our profitability may be negatively affected by the relatively high fixed costs of operating luxury hotels. If our hotels cannot compete effectively for guests, they will earn less revenue, which would result in lower cash available for us to meet debt service obligations, operating expenses, and make requisite distributions to stockholders.. 43. Table of Contents. Because we depend upon Ashford LLC and its affiliates to conduct our operations, any adverse changes in the financial condition of Ashford LLC or its affiliates or our relationship with them could hinder our operating performance.. We depend on Ashford LLC to manage our assets and operations. Any adverse changes in the financial condition of Ashford LLC, or its affiliates or our relationship with Ashford LLC could hinder its ability to manage us successfully.. We depend on Ashford LLC's key personnel with long-standing business relationships. The loss of Ashford LLC's key personnel could threaten our ability to operate our business successfully.. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, upon the continued services of Ashford LLC's management team. In particular, the hotel industry experience of Messrs. Monty J. Bennett, Richard J. Stockton, David A. Brooks, Deric S. Eubanks, Jeremy Welter, Mark L. Nunneley, and J. Robison Hays III, and the extent and nature of the relationships they have developed with hotel franchisors, operators, and owners and hotel lending and other financial institutions are critically important to the success of our business. The loss of services of one or more members of Ashford LLC's management team could harm our business and our prospects.. The aggregate amount of fees and expense reimbursements paid to our advisor will exceed the average of internalized expenses of our industry peers (as provided in our advisory agreement), as a percentage of total market capitalization. As a part of these fees, we must pay a minimum advisory fee to our advisor regardless of our performance.. Pursuant to the advisory agreement between us and our advisor, we must pay our advisor a monthly base management fee (subject to a minimum fee described below) in an amount equal to 1/12th of 0.70% of the sum of (i) the total market capitalization of our company for the prior month, and (ii) the Key Money Gross Asset Value (as defined in our advisory agreement), an annual incentive fee that will be based on our achievement of certain minimum performance thresholds and certain expense reimbursements. The monthly minimum base management fee will be equal to the greater of (i) 90% of the base fee paid for the same month in the prior year; and (ii) 1/12th of the \"G&A Ratio\" for the most recently completed fiscal quarter multiplied by the Total Market Capitalization (as defined in our advisory agreement) on the last balance sheet date included in the most recent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or Annual Report on Form 10-K filed by the Company with the SEC. The \"G&A Ratio\" will be calculated as the simple average of the ratios of total general and administrative expenses paid, less any non-cash expenses but including any dead-deal costs, in the applicable quarter by each member of a select peer group, divided by the total market capitalization of such peer group member (as provided in our advisory agreement). Since the base management fee is subject to this minimum amount and because a portion of such fees are contingent on our performance, the fees we pay to our advisor may fluctuate over time. However, regardless of our advisor's performance, the total amount of fees and reimbursements paid to our advisor as a percentage of market capitalization will never be less than the average of internalized expenses of our industry peers (as provided in our advisory agreement), and there may be times when the total amount of fees and incentives paid to our advisor greatly exceeds the average of internalized expenses of our industry peers.. Our advisor's entitlement to non-performance-based compensation, including the minimum base management fee, might reduce its incentive to devote its time and effort to seeking investments that provide attractive risk-adjusted returns for our portfolio. Further, our incentive fee structure may induce our advisor to encourage us to acquire certain assets, including speculative or high risk assets, or to acquire assets with increased leverage, which could increase the risk to our portfolio.. Our business strategy depends on acquiring additional hotel properties on attractive terms and the failure to do so or to otherwise manage our planned growth successfully may adversely affect our business and operating results.. We intend to acquire additional hotel properties in the future. We face significant competition for attractive investment opportunities from other well-capitalized investors, some of which have greater financial resources and greater access to debt and equity capital than we have. This competition increases as investments in real estate become increasingly attractive relative to other forms of investment. This competition could limit the number of suitable investment opportunities offered to us. It may also increase the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell to us, making it more difficult for us to acquire new properties on attractive terms or on the terms contemplated in our business plan. As a result of such competition, we may be unable to acquire hotel properties that we deem attractive at prices that we consider appropriate or on terms that are satisfactory to us. If we do identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully negotiate the terms of the acquisition. In addition, we expect to finance future acquisitions through a combination of borrowings under our secured revolving credit facility, the use of retained cash flows, property-level debt, and offerings of equity and debt securities, which may result in additional leverage or dilution to our stockholders. Any delay or failure on our part to identify, negotiate, finance on favorable terms, consummate and integrate such acquisitions could materially impede our growth.. In addition, we expect to compete to sell hotel properties. Availability of capital, the number of hotel properties available for sale and market conditions, all affect prices. We may not be able to sell hotel assets at our targeted price.. 44. Table of Contents. There is no guarantee that Ashford Trust will sell us any of the properties that are subject to the right of first offer agreement.. We may not be able to acquire any of the properties that are subject to the right of first offer agreement, either because Ashford Trust does not elect to sell such properties or we are not in a position to acquire the properties when Ashford Trust elects to sell. Further, if we materially change our investment guidelines without the express consent of Ashford LLC, no hotels acquired by Ashford Trust after the date of such change will be subject to the right of first offer.. We may be unable to successfully integrate and operate acquired properties, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results.. Even if we are able to make acquisitions on favorable terms, we may not be able to successfully integrate and operate them. We may be required to invest significant capital and resources after an acquisition to maintain or grow the properties that we acquire. In addition, we may need to adapt our management, administrative, accounting, and operational systems, or hire and retain sufficient operational staff, to integrate and manage successfully any future acquisitions of additional assets. These and other integration efforts may disrupt our operations, divert Ashford LLC's attention away from day-to-day operations and cause us to incur unanticipated costs. The difficulties of integration may be increased by the necessity of coordinating operations in geographically dispersed locations. Our failure to integrate successfully any acquisitions into our portfolio could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Further, acquired properties may have liabilities or adverse operating issues that we fail to discover through due diligence prior to the acquisition. The failure to discover such issues prior to such acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Because our board of directors and Ashford LLC have broad discretion to make future investments, we may make investments that result in returns that are substantially below expectations or in net operating losses. In addition, our investment policies may be revised from time to time at the discretion of our board of directors, without a vote of our stockholders. Such discretion could result in investments with yield returns inconsistent with stockholders' expectations.. Our joint venture investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on a co-venturer's financial condition and disputes between us and our co-venturers.. We own interests in two hotels through a joint venture and we do not have sole decision-making authority regarding these two properties. In addition, we may continue to co-invest with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures or other entities, acquiring controlling or noncontrolling interests in, or sharing responsibility for, managing the affairs of a property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. We may not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding any future properties that we may hold in a partnership or joint venture. Investments in partnerships, joint ventures or other entities may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that partners or co-venturers might become bankrupt, suffer a deterioration in their financial condition or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. Partners or co-venturers may have economic or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. Such investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions, such as a sale, budgets, or financing, because neither we nor the partner or co-venturer have full control over the partnership or joint venture. Disputes between us and partners or co-venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and/or directors from focusing their time and effort on our business. Consequently, actions by, or disputes with, partners or co-venturers might result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. In addition, we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party partners or co-venturers.. Hotel franchise management agreement requirements or the loss of such an agreement could adversely affect us.. We must comply with operating standards, terms, and conditions imposed by the franchisors or managers of the hotel brands under which our hotels operate. Franchisors periodically inspect their licensed hotels to confirm adherence to their operating standards. The failure of a hotel to maintain these standards could result in the loss or cancellation of a franchise license or other authority pursuant to which our hotels are branded and operated. With respect to operational standards, we rely on our property managers to conform to such standards. Franchisors or managers may also require us to make certain capital improvements to maintain the hotel in accordance with system standards, the cost of which can be substantial. A franchisor or manager could condition the continuation of branding and operational support based on the completion of capital improvements that Ashford LLC or our board of directors determines is not economically feasible in light of general economic conditions, the operating results or prospects of the affected hotel or other circumstances. In that event, Ashford LLC or our board of directors may elect to allow the franchise or management agreement to lapse or be terminated, which could result in a termination charge as well as a change in branding or operation of the hotel as an independent hotel. In addition, when the term of such agreement expires there is no obligation to issue a new franchise.. 45. Table of Contents. The loss of a franchise or management agreement could have a material adverse effect on the operations and/or the underlying value of the affected hotel because of the loss of associated name recognition, marketing support and centralized reservation systems provided by the franchisor or manager. Any such material adverse effect on one or more of our hotels may, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results.. Our reliance on third-party property managers, including Remington Lodging, to operate our hotels and for a substantial majority of our cash flow may adversely affect us.. Because federal income tax laws restrict REITs and their subsidiaries from operating or managing hotels, third parties must operate our hotels. A REIT may lease its hotels to taxable REIT subsidiaries in which the REIT can own up to a 100% interest. A TRS pays corporate-level income tax and may retain any after-tax income. A REIT must satisfy certain conditions to use the TRS structure. One of those conditions is that the TRS must hire, to manage the hotels, an \"eligible independent contractor\" (\"EIC\") that is actively engaged in the trade or business of managing hotels for parties other than the REIT. An EIC cannot (i) own more than 35% of the REIT, (ii) be owned more than 35% by persons owning more than 35% of the REIT, or (iii) provide any income to the REIT (i.e., the EIC cannot pay fees to the REIT, and the REIT cannot own any debt or equity securities of the EIC). Accordingly, while we may lease hotels to a TRS that we own, the TRS must engage a third-party operator to manage the hotels. Thus, our ability to direct and control how our hotels are operated is less than if we were able to manage our hotels directly.. We are parties to hotel management agreements under which unaffiliated third-party property managers manage our hotels. We have also entered into a mutual exclusivity agreement with Remington Lodging contemplating Remington Lodging's management of hotels we acquire in the future, pursuant to which Remington Lodging currently manages the Pier House Resort. We do not supervise any of the property managers or their respective personnel on a day-to-day basis. Without such supervision, our property managers may not manage our properties in a manner that is consistent with their respective obligations under the applicable management agreement or our obligations under our hotel management agreements, which are similar to franchise agreements, be negligent in their performance, engage in criminal or fraudulent activity, or otherwise default on their respective management obligations to us. If any of these events occur, our relationships with any managers may be damaged, we may be in breach of our management agreement, and we could incur liabilities resulting from loss or injury to our property or to persons at our properties. In addition, from time to time, disputes may arise between us and our third-party managers regarding their performance or compliance with the terms of the hotel management agreements, which in turn could adversely affect us. If we are unable to resolve such disputes through discussions and negotiations, we may choose to terminate our management agreement, litigate the dispute or submit the matter to third-party dispute resolution, the expense of which may be material and the outcome of which may harm our business, operating results or prospects.. Our management agreements could adversely affect our ability to sell or finance our hotel properties.. Our management agreements do not allow us to replace hotel managers on relatively short notice or with limited cost and also contain other restrictive covenants. We may enter into additional such agreements or acquire properties subject to such agreements in the future. For example, the terms of a management agreement may restrict our ability to sell a property unless the purchaser is not a competitor of the manager, assumes the management agreement and meets other conditions. Also, the terms of a long-term management agreement encumbering our property may reduce the value of the property. When we enter into or acquire properties subject to any such management agreements, we may be precluded from taking actions that we believe to be in our best interest and could incur substantial expense as a result.. Seven of our hotels currently operate under Marriott or Hilton brands; therefore, we are subject to risks associated with concentrating our portfolio in just two brand families.. Seven of our twelve hotels utilize brands owned by Marriott or Hilton. As a result, our success is dependent in part on the continued success of Marriott and Hilton and their respective brands. We believe that building brand value is critical to increase demand and build customer loyalty. Consequently, if market recognition or the positive perception of Marriott and/or Hilton is reduced or compromised, the goodwill associated with the Marriott- and Hilton-branded hotels in our portfolio may be adversely affected. Furthermore, if our relationship with Marriott or Hilton were to deteriorate as a result of disputes regarding the management of our hotels or for other reasons, Marriott and/or Hilton might terminate its current management agreements or franchise licenses with us or decline to manage or provide franchise licenses for hotels we may acquire in the future.. If we cannot obtain additional capital, our growth will be limited.. We are required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding net capital gains, each year to qualify and maintain our qualification as a REIT. As a result, our retained earnings, if any, available to fund acquisitions, development, or other capital expenditures are nominal. As such, we rely upon the availability of additional debt or equity capital to fund these activities. Our long-term ability to grow through acquisitions or development, which is an important strategy for us,. 46. Table of Contents. will be limited if we cannot obtain additional financing or equity capital. Market conditions may make it difficult to obtain financing or equity capital, and we may not be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing or obtain it on favorable terms.. Three of our hotels are subject to ground leases; if we are found to be in breach of a ground lease or are unable to renew a ground lease, our business could be materially and adversely affected.. Three of our hotels are on land subject to ground leases. Accordingly, we only own a long-term leasehold or similar interest in those three hotels. If we are found to be in breach of a ground lease, we could lose the right to use the hotel. In addition, unless we can purchase a fee interest in the underlying land and improvements or extend the terms of these leases before their expiration, we will lose our right to operate these properties and our interest in the improvements upon expiration of the leases. We may not be able to renew any ground lease upon its expiration. Our ability to exercise any extension options relating to our ground leases is subject to the condition that we are not in default under the terms of the ground lease at the time that we exercise such options. If we lose the right to use a hotel due to a breach or non-renewal of the ground lease, we would be unable to derive income from such hotel and would be required to purchase an interest in another hotel to attempt to replace that income, which could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects.. We will not recognize any increase in the value of the land or improvements subject to our ground leases and may only receive a portion of compensation paid in any eminent domain proceeding with respect to the hotel.. Unless we purchase a fee interest in the land and improvements subject to our ground leases, we will not have any economic interest in the land or improvements at the expiration of our ground leases. As a result, we will not share in any increase in value of the land or improvements beyond the term of a ground lease, notwithstanding our capital outlay to purchase our interest in the hotel or fund improvements thereon, and will lose our right to use the hotel. Furthermore, if the state or federal government seizes a hotel subject to a ground lease under its eminent domain power, we may only be entitled to a portion of any compensation awarded for the seizure.. The expansion of our business into new markets outside of the United States will expose us to risks relating to owning hotels in those international markets.. As part of our business strategy, we may acquire hotels that meet our investment criteria and are located in international markets. We may have difficulty managing our expansion into new geographic markets where we have limited knowledge and understanding of the local economy, an absence of business relationships in the area, or unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures and regulations. There are risks inherent in conducting business outside of the United States, which include risks related to:. • foreign employment laws and practices, which may increase the reimbursable costs incurred under our advisory agreement associated with international employees;. • foreign tax laws, which may provide for income or other taxes or tax rates that exceed those of the U.S. and which may provide that foreign earnings that are repatriated, directly or indirectly, are subject to dividend withholding tax requirements or other restrictions;. • compliance with and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements or monetary policy;. • the willingness of domestic or international lenders to provide financing and changes in the availability, cost and terms of such financing;. • adverse changes in local, political, economic and market conditions;. • increased costs of insurance coverage related to terrorist events;. • changes in interest rates and/or currency exchange rates;. • regulations regarding the incurrence of debt; and. • difficulties in complying with U.S. rules governing REITs while operating outside of the United States.. Any of these factors could affect adversely our ability to obtain all of the intended benefits of expanding internationally. If we do not effectively manage this expansion and successfully integrate the international hotels into our organization, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected.. Compliance with international laws and regulations may require us to incur substantial costs.. The operations of our international properties, if any, will be subject to a variety of U.S. and international laws and regulations, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\"). Before we invest in international markets, we will adopt policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws, but we may not continue to be found to be operating in compliance with, or be able to detect violations of, any such laws or regulations. In addition, we. 47. Table of Contents. cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international properties might be subject and the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted.. Exchange rate fluctuations could affect adversely our financial results.. If we acquire hotels or conduct operations in an international jurisdiction, currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. If we have international operations, a portion of our revenue and expenses could be generated in foreign currencies such as the Euro, the Canadian dollar and the British pound sterling. Any steps we take to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies, such as entering into foreign exchange agreements or currency exchange hedging arrangements will not eliminate such risk entirely. To the extent that we are unable to match revenue received in foreign currencies with expenses paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, because our consolidated financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, if we generate revenues or earnings in other currencies, the conversion of such amounts into U.S. dollars can result in an increase or decrease in the amount of our revenues or earnings.. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, we will not be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, including those relating to accounting standards and disclosure about our executive compensation, that apply to other public companies.. Upon the completion of the spin-off, we became subject to reporting and other obligations under the Exchange Act. In April 2012, the Jump Start Our Business Startups Act (the \"JOBS Act\") was enacted into law. The JOBS Act contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for \"emerging growth companies,\" including certain requirements relating to accounting standards and compensation disclosure. We are an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in the JOBS Act. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, which may be up to five full fiscal years, unlike other public companies, we will not be required to:. • provide an auditor's attestation report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of our system of internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act;. • comply with any new or revised financial accounting standards applicable to public companies until such standards are also applicable to private companies under Section 102(b)(1) of the JOBS Act;. • comply with any new requirements adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (the \"PCAOB\") requiring mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor's report in which the auditor would be required to provide additional information about the audit and the financial statements of the issuer;. • comply with any new audit rules adopted by the PCAOB after April 5, 2012 unless the SEC determines otherwise;. • provide certain disclosure regarding executive compensation; or. • hold stockholder advisory votes on executive compensation.. Because we are an \"emerging growth company\" under the JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm is not required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.. For as long as we are an \"emerging growth company\" under the JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(b). We could be an emerging growth company for up to five years. An independent assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls could detect problems that our management's assessment might not. Undetected material weaknesses in our internal controls could lead to financial statement restatements and require us to incur the expense of remediation.. Our status as an \"emerging growth company\" under the JOBS Act may make it more difficult to raise capital as and when we need it.. Because of the exemptions from various reporting requirements provided to us as an \"emerging growth company\" and because we will have an extended transition period for complying with accounting standards that are newly issued or revised after April 5, 2012, our common stock may be less attractive to investors and it may be difficult for us to raise additional capital as and when we need it. Investors may be unable to compare our business with other companies in our industry if they believe that our financial accounting is not as transparent as other companies in our industry. Without access to additional capital, we may not be able to expand our business or take other actions we determine to be in our best interests. If we are unable to raise additional capital as and when we need it, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. 48. Table of Contents. We are increasingly dependent on information technology, and potential cyber-attacks, security problems or other disruption and expanding social media vehicles present new risks.. Ashford LLC and our hotel managers rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes, including financial transactions and records, personal identifying information, reservations, billing and operating data. Ashford LLC and our hotel managers may purchase some of our information technology from vendors, on whom our systems will depend, and Ashford LLC relies on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential operator and other customer information. We depend upon the secure transmission of this information over public networks. Ashford LLC's and hotel managers' networks and storage applications could be subject to unauthorized access by hackers or others through cyber-attacks, which are rapidly evolving and becoming increasingly sophisticated, or by other means, or may be breached due to operator error, malfeasance or other system disruptions. In some cases, it will be difficult to anticipate or immediately detect such incidents and the damage they cause. Any significant breakdown, invasion, destruction, interruption or leakage of information from Ashford LLC's or hotel managers' systems could harm our reputation and business.. In addition, the use of social media could cause us to suffer brand damage or information leakage. Negative posts or comments about us, our hotel managers or our hotels on any social networking website could damage our or our hotels' reputations. In addition, employees or others might disclose non-public sensitive information relating to our business through external media channels. The continuing evolution of social media will present us with new challenges and risks.. Changes in laws, regulations or policies may adversely affect our business.. The laws and regulations governing our business or the regulatory or enforcement environment at the federal level or in any of the states in which we operate may change at any time and may have an adverse effect on our business. For example, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, as it is phased in over time, will significantly affect the administration of health care services and could significantly impact our hotel managers' cost of providing employees with health care insurance. We are unable to predict how this or any other future legislative or regulatory proposals or programs will be administered or implemented or in what form, or whether any additional or similar changes to statutes or regulations, including the interpretation or implementation thereof, will occur in the future. Any such action could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our inability to remain in compliance with regulatory requirements in a particular jurisdiction could have a material adverse effect on our operations in that market and on our reputation generally. Applicable laws or regulations may be amended or construed differently and new laws and regulations may be adopted, either of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. We may from time to time be subject to litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and trading price of our common stock.. We may from time to time be subject to litigation. Some of these claims may result in defense costs, settlements, fines or judgments against us, some of which may not be covered by insurance. Payment of any such costs, settlements, fines or judgments that are not insured could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. Negative publicity regarding claims or judgments made against us or involving our hotels may damage our, or our hotels', reputations. In addition, certain litigation or the resolution of certain litigation may affect the availability or cost of some of our insurance coverage, which could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows, expose us to increased risks that would be uninsured, and/or adversely impact our ability to attract officers and directors.. Risks Related to our Debt Financing. Increases in interest rates could increase our debt payments.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $826.2 million of outstanding indebtedness, including approximately $818.1 million of variable interest rate debt, and we expect to incur additional indebtedness, including additional variable-rate debt. Increases in interest rates increase our interest costs on our variable-rate debt as well as any future fixed rate debt we may incur at higher interest rates, and interest we pay reduces our cash available for distributions, expansion, working capital and other uses. Moreover, periods of rising interest rates heighten the risks described immediately below under \"We may be unable to make required payments on our debt, and our charter and bylaws do not limit the amount of debt we may incur.\". We may be unable to make required payments on our debt, and our charter and bylaws do not limit the amount of debt we may incur.. Our charter and bylaws do not limit the amount or percentage of indebtedness that we may incur, and we are subject to risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that we may not be able to meet our debt service obligations or refinance. 49. Table of Contents. our debt as it becomes due. We may not be able to refinance any maturing indebtedness, and any such refinancing may not be on terms as favorable as the terms of the maturing indebtedness. In addition, we may not be able to obtain funds by selling assets or raising equity to repay maturing indebtedness.. If we do not meet our debt service obligations, we risk the loss of some or all of our assets to foreclosure. For tax purposes, a foreclosure of any of our properties would be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on the foreclosure but would not receive any cash proceeds. As a result, we may be required to identify and utilize other sources of cash for distributions to our stockholders of that income.. Our future indebtedness may be cross-collateralized and, consequently, a default on any such indebtedness could cause us to lose part or all of our investment in multiple properties.. Under our advisory agreement, Ashford LLC is entitled to receive a monthly base fee in an amount equal to 1/12th of 0.70% of the sum of (i) the total market capitalization of our company for the prior month, and (ii) the Key Money Gross Asset Value, which is defined in the advisory agreement to include our indebtedness and other factors. This fee increases as the aggregate principal amount of our consolidated indebtedness (including our proportionate share of debt of any entity that is not consolidated but excluding our joint venture partners' proportionate share of consolidated debt) increases. As a result, any increase in our consolidated indebtedness will also increase the fees we pay to Ashford LLC. The structure of this fee may incentivize Ashford LLC to increase our indebtedness, thereby increasing the fee, when it is not in the best interest of our stockholders to do so.. In addition, changes in economic conditions, our financial condition or operating results or prospects could:. • result in higher interest rates on our variable-rate debt,. • reduce the availability of debt financing generally or debt financing at favorable rates,. • reduce cash available for distribution to stockholders, or. • increase the risk that we could be forced to liquidate assets to repay debt.. Covenants, \"cash trap\" provisions or other terms in our mortgage loans and our secured revolving credit facility, as well as any future credit facility, could limit our flexibility and adversely affect our financial condition or our qualification as a REIT.. Some of our loan agreements and our secured revolving credit facility contain financial and other covenants. If we violate covenants in any debt agreements, we could be required to repay all or a portion of our indebtedness before maturity at a time when we might be unable to arrange financing for such repayment on attractive terms, if at all. Violations of certain debt covenants may also prohibit us from borrowing unused amounts under our lines of credit, even if repayment of some or all the borrowings is not required. In addition, financial covenants under our current or future debt obligations could impair our planned business strategies by limiting our ability to borrow beyond certain amounts or for certain purposes.. Some of our loan agreements also contain cash trap provisions that are triggered if the performance of our hotels decline. When these provisions are triggered, substantially all of the profit generated by our hotels is deposited directly into lockbox accounts and then swept into cash management accounts for the benefit of our various lenders. Cash is not distributed to us at any time after the cash trap provisions have been triggered until we have cured performance issues. This could affect our liquidity and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. If we are not able to make distributions to our stockholders, we may not qualify as a REIT.. Our hedging strategies may not be successful in mitigating our risks associated with interest rates and could reduce the overall returns on an investment in our company.. We use various derivative financial instruments to protect us against interest rate risks. The use of derivative financial instruments to hedge against such risk involves numerous uncertainties, such as the risk that the counterparties fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes and that a court could rule that such agreements are not legally enforceable. These instruments may also generate income that may not be treated as qualifying REIT income. In addition, the nature and timing of hedging transactions may influence the effectiveness of our hedging strategies. Poorly designed strategies or improperly executed transactions could actually increase our risk and losses. Moreover, hedging strategies involve transaction and other costs. Our hedging strategy and the derivatives that we use may not adequately offset the risk of interest rate volatility and our hedging transactions could result in losses that may reduce the overall return on our stockholders' investment in our company.. 50. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Conflicts of Interest. Our separation and distribution agreement, our advisory agreement, the mutual exclusivity agreement, the master management agreement and other agreements entered into in connection with the spin-off, as well as the investment management agreement, were not negotiated on an arm's-length basis, and we may pursue less vigorous enforcement of their terms because of conflicts of interest with certain of our executive officers and directors and key employees of Ashford LLC.. Because our officers and one of our directors are also key employees of Ashford LLC or its affiliates and have ownership interests in Ashford Trust, our separation and distribution agreement, our advisory agreement, mutual exclusivity agreement and other agreements entered into in connection with the spin-off, as well as our investment management agreement, were not negotiated on an arm's-length basis, and we did not have the benefit of arm's-length negotiations of the type normally conducted with an unaffiliated third party. Due to the subsequent spin-off of Ashford Inc., the parent company of Ashford LLC in November 2014, these officers and directors also have ownership interests in the parent company of Ashford LLC and its subsidiaries, including AIM. As a result of our affiliations with Ashford Trust, Ashford LLC and Remington Lodging, the terms, including fees and other amounts payable, of agreements between us and Ashford Trust, Ashford LLC, AIM or Remington Lodging may not be as favorable to us as the terms under an arm's-length agreement. Furthermore, we may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights under these agreements because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with Ashford Trust, Ashford LLC, AIM and Remington Lodging.. Ashford LLC may also manage other entities or assets in the future. Our officers and certain of our directors may also be key officers or directors of such future entities or their affiliates and may have ownership interests in such entities. Any such positions or interests could present additional conflicts of interest for our officers and certain of our directors.. Ashford LLC was a subsidiary of Ashford Trust until its spin-off and may be able to direct attractive investment opportunities to Ashford Trust and away from us.. Until its spin-off on November 12, 2014, Ashford LLC was a subsidiary of Ashford Trust, a publicly-traded hotel REIT, with investment objectives that are similar to ours. As of December 31, 2017, Ashford Trust holds approximately 28.5% of the equity of Ashford Inc., Ashford LLC's parent company, on a fully diluted basis. So long as Ashford LLC is our external advisor, our governing documents require us to include two persons designated by Ashford LLC as candidates for election as director at any stockholder meeting at which directors are to be elected. If the size of our board of directors is increased at any time to more than seven directors, the Ashford LLC's right to nominate shall be increased by such number of directors as shall be necessary to maintain the ratio of directors nominated by Ashford LLC to the directors otherwise nominated, as nearly as possible (rounding to the next larger whole number), equal to the ratio that would have existed if our board of directors consisted of seven members. Each of our executive officers and two of our directors also serve as key employees and as officers of Ashford LLC and Ashford Trust. Furthermore, Mr. Monty J. Bennett, our previous chief executive officer and current chairman, is also the chairman of Ashford Trust. Our advisory agreement requires Ashford LLC to present investments that satisfy our investment guidelines to us before presenting them to Ashford Trust or any future client of Ashford LLC. Our board may modify or supplement our investment guidelines from time to time so long as we do not change our investment guidelines in such a way as to be directly competitive with all or any portion of Ashford Trust's investment guidelines as of the date of the advisory agreement. If we materially change our investment guidelines without the express consent of Ashford LLC, then Ashford LLC will not have an obligation to present investment opportunities to us and instead Ashford LLC will use its best judgment to allocate investment opportunities and other entities it advises, taking into account such factors as Ashford LLC deems relevant, in its discretion, subject to any then existing obligations of Ashford LLC to such other entities.. However, some portfolio investment opportunities may include hotels that satisfy our investment objectives as well as hotels that satisfy the investment objectives of Ashford Trust or other entities advised by Ashford LLC. If the portfolio cannot be equitably divided, Ashford LLC will necessarily have to make a determination as to which entity will be presented with the opportunity. In such a circumstance, our advisory agreement requires Ashford LLC to allocate portfolio investment opportunities between us and Ashford Trust or other entities advised by Ashford LLC in a fair and equitable manner, consistent with our, Ashford Trust's and such other entities' investment objectives. In making this determination, Ashford LLC, using substantial discretion, is required to consider the investment strategy and guidelines of each entity with respect to acquisition of properties, portfolio concentrations, tax consequences, regulatory restrictions, liquidity requirements, leverage and other factors deemed appropriate. In making the allocation determination, Ashford LLC has no obligation to make any such investment opportunity available to us. Ashford LLC and Ashford Trust have agreed that any new investment opportunities that satisfy our investment guidelines will be presented to our board of directors; however, our board will have only ten business days to make a determination with respect to such opportunity prior to it being available to Ashford Trust. The above mentioned dual responsibilities may create conflicts of interest for our officers that could result in decisions or allocations of investments that may benefit Ashford Trust more than they benefit our company, and Ashford Trust may compete with us with respect to certain investments that we may want to acquire.. 51. Table of Contents. Ashford LLC and its key employees, who are our executive officers, face competing demands relating to their time and this may adversely affect our operations.. We rely on Ashford LLC, its subsidiaries and its employees for the day-to-day operation of our business and management of our assets. Until its spin-off, Ashford LLC was wholly-owned by Ashford Trust. Ashford LLC is led by our current management team, which is also the current management team of Ashford Trust. Because Ashford LLC's key employees have duties to Ashford Trust as well as to our company, we do not have their undivided attention and they face conflicts in allocating their time and resources between our company and Ashford Trust. If Ashford LLC advises and/or leads any additional entities, or manages additional assets, in the future, this could present additional conflicts with respect to the allocation of the time and resources of our management team. As a result of the spin-off of Ashford LLC, its employees have additional responsibilities relating to Ashford Inc.'s status as a public company. During turbulent market conditions or other times when we need focused support and assistance from Ashford LLC, other entities for which Ashford LLC also acts as an external advisor or Ashford Trust may likewise require greater focus and attention, placing competing high levels of demand on the limited time and resources of Ashford LLC's key employees. We may not receive the necessary support and assistance we require or would otherwise receive if we were internally managed by persons working exclusively for us.. Conflicts of interest with Remington Lodging could result in our hotel-level management acting other than in our stockholders' best interest.. Remington Lodging currently manages the Pier House Resort, the Bardessono Hotel and the Hotel Yountville. We expect Remington Lodging will manage certain of the hotels we acquire in the future. Conflicts of interest in general and specifically relating to Remington Lodging may lead to management decisions that are not in our stockholders' best interest. The chairman of our board, Mr. Monty J. Bennett, serves as the chief executive officer of Remington Lodging. Mr. Monty J. Bennett and his father, Mr. Archie Bennett, Jr., beneficially own 100% of Remington Lodging.. We have entered into a mutual exclusivity agreement and a master management agreement with Remington Lodging. To the extent we have the right or control the right to direct such matters, the exclusivity agreement requires us to engage Remington Lodging to provide certain project management and development services for our properties and to engage Remington Lodging to provide, under the master management agreement, property management, project management and development services for all future properties that we acquire, unless our independent directors either (i) unanimously vote not to hire Remington Lodging, or (ii) based on special circumstances or past performance, by a majority vote, elect not to engage Remington Lodging because they have determined, in their reasonable business judgment, that it would be in our best interest not to engage Remington Lodging or that another manager or developer could perform the duties materially better. As one of the two beneficial owners of Remington Lodging, which would receive any property management, project management, development and termination fees payable by us under the master management agreement, Mr. Monty J. Bennett may influence our decisions to sell, acquire, or develop hotels when it is not in the best interest of our stockholders to do so.. Mr. Monty J. Bennett's ownership interests in and management obligations to Remington Lodging present him with conflicts of interest in making management decisions related to the commercial arrangements between us and Remington Lodging, and his management obligations to Remington Lodging reduce the time and effort he spends managing our company. Our board of directors has adopted a policy that requires all material approvals, actions or decisions which we have the right to make under the master management agreement with Remington Lodging be approved by a majority or, in certain circumstances, all, of our independent directors. However, given the authority and/or operational latitude provided to Remington Lodging under the master management agreement, Mr. Monty J. Bennett, as the chief executive officer of Remington Lodging, could take actions or make decisions that are not in our stockholders' best interest or that are otherwise inconsistent with his obligations to us under the master management agreement or our obligations under the applicable franchise agreements.. Remington Lodging's ability to exercise significant influence over the determination of the competitive set for any hotels managed by Remington Lodging could artificially enhance the perception of the performance of a hotel, making it more difficult to use managers other than Remington Lodging for future properties.. Under our master management agreement with Remington Lodging, we have the right to terminate Remington Lodging based on the performance of the applicable hotel, subject to the payment of a termination fee. The determination of performance is based on the applicable hotel's gross operating profit margin and its RevPAR penetration index, which provides the relative revenue per room generated by a specified property as compared to its competitive set. For each hotel managed by Remington Lodging, its competitive set consists of a small group of hotels in the relevant market that we and Remington Lodging believe are comparable for purposes of benchmarking the performance of such hotel. Remington Lodging has significant influence over the determination of the competitive set for any of our hotels that it manages. Remington Lodging could artificially enhance the perception of the performance of a hotel by selecting a competitive set that is not performing well or is not comparable to the Remington Lodging-managed hotel, thereby making it more difficult for us to elect not to use Remington Lodging for future hotel management.. 52. Table of Contents. Remington Lodging may be able to pursue lodging investment opportunities that compete with us.. Pursuant to the terms of our mutual exclusivity agreement with Remington Lodging, if investment opportunities that satisfy our investment criteria are identified by Remington Lodging or its affiliates, Remington Lodging will give us a written notice and description of the investment opportunity. We will have 10 business days to either accept or reject the investment opportunity. If we reject the opportunity, Remington Lodging may then pursue such investment opportunity, subject to a right of first refusal in favor of Ashford Trust pursuant to an existing agreement between Ashford Trust and Remington Lodging, on materially the same terms and conditions as offered to us. If we reject such an investment opportunity, either Ashford Trust or Remington Lodging could pursue the opportunity and compete with us. In such a case, Mr. Monty J. Bennett, chairman of our board, in his capacity as chairman and chief executive officer of Ashford Trust or as chief executive officer of Remington Lodging could be in a position of directly competing with us, and Remington Lodging may compete with us with respect to certain investments that we may want to acquire.. Our fiduciary duties as the general partner of our operating partnership could create conflicts of interest, which may impede business decisions that could benefit our stockholders.. As the general partner of our operating partnership, we have fiduciary duties to the other limited partners in our operating partnership, the discharge of which may conflict with the interests of our stockholders. The limited partners of our operating partnership have agreed that, in the event of a conflict in the fiduciary duties owed by us to our stockholders and, in our capacity as general partner of our operating partnership, to such limited partners, we are under no obligation to give priority to the interests of such limited partners. In addition, persons holding common units have the right to vote on certain amendments to the operating partnership agreement (which require approval by a majority in interest of the limited partners, including us) and individually to approve certain amendments that would adversely affect their rights. These voting rights may be exercised in a manner that conflicts with the interests of our stockholders. For example, we cannot modify the rights of limited partners to receive distributions as set forth in the operating partnership agreement in a manner that adversely affects their rights without their consent, even though such modification might be in the best interest of our stockholders.. In addition, conflicts may arise when the interests of our stockholders and the limited partners of our operating partnership diverge, particularly in circumstances in which there may be an adverse tax consequence to the limited partners. Tax consequences to holders of common units upon a sale or refinancing of our properties may cause the interests of Ashford Trust or the key employees of Ashford LLC (who are executive officers of Ashford Trust and have ownership interests in Ashford Trust) to differ from our stockholders. As a result of unrealized built-in gain attributable to contributed property at the time of contribution, some holders of common units, including Ashford Trust, may suffer different and more adverse tax consequences than holders of our common stock upon the sale or refinancing of the properties owned by our operating partnership, including disproportionately greater allocations of items of taxable income and gain upon a realization event. As those holders will not receive a correspondingly greater distribution of cash proceeds, they may have different objectives regarding the appropriate pricing, timing and other material terms of any sale or refinancing of certain properties, or whether to sell or refinance such properties at all. As a result, Ashford LLC may cause us to sell, not sell or refinance certain properties, even if such actions or inactions might be financially advantageous to our stockholders, or to enter into tax deferred exchanges with the proceeds of such sales when such a reinvestment might not otherwise be in our best interest.. Our conflicts of interest policy may not adequately address all of the conflicts of interest that may arise with respect to our activities.. We have adopted a conflicts of interest policy to address specifically some of the conflicts relating to our activities which requires the approval of a majority of our disinterested directors to approve any transaction, agreement or relationship in which any of our directors or officers, Ashford LLC or its employees or Ashford Trust has an interest. This policy may not be adequate to address all of the conflicts that may arise. In addition, it may not address such conflicts in a manner that is favorable to us.. The potential for conflicts of interest as a result of our management structure may provoke dissident stockholder activities that result in significant costs.. Other REITs, particularly following periods of volatility in the overall market or declines in the market price of the company's securities, have been targets of stockholder litigation, stockholder director nominations and stockholder proposals by dissident stockholders that allege conflicts of interest in business dealings with affiliated and related persons and entities. Our relationships with Ashford LLC, Ashford Inc., Ashford Trust, AIM, Remington Lodging, the other businesses and entities to which Ashford LLC, Ashford Inc., AIM and Remington Lodging provide management or other services, Mr. Monty J. Bennett, Mr. Archie Bennett, Jr. and with other related parties of Ashford Inc. and Ashford Trust may precipitate such activities. These activities, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention even if the action is unfounded.. 53. Table of Contents. Responding to actions by activist investors can be costly and time-consuming, disrupting our operations and diverting the attention of management and our employees. Stockholder activism could create perceived uncertainties as to our future direction, which could result in the loss of potential business opportunities and make it more difficult for our advisor to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners. Furthermore, the election of individuals to our board of directors with a specific agenda could adversely affect our ability to effectively and timely implement our strategic plans. See \"Risk Factors- Our business could be adversely affected as a result of the proxy contest and related stockholder litigation.\". Risks Related to Hotel Investments. We are subject to general risks associated with operating hotels.. We own hotel properties, which have different economic characteristics than many other real estate assets and a hotel REIT is structured differently than many other types of REITs. A typical office property, for example, has long-term leases with third-party tenants, which provides a relatively stable long-term stream of revenue. Hotels, on the other hand, generate revenue from guests that typically stay at the hotel for only a few nights, which causes the room rate and occupancy levels at each of our hotels to change every day, and results in earnings that can be highly volatile.. In addition, our hotels are subject to various operating risks common to the hotel industry, many of which are beyond our control, including, among others, the following:. • competition from other hotel properties in our markets;. • over-building of hotels in our markets, which results in increased supply and adversely affects occupancy and revenues at our hotels;. • dependence on business and commercial travelers and tourism;. • increases in operating costs due to inflation, increased energy costs and other factors that may not be offset by increased room rates;. • changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost and terms of debt financing;. • increases in assessed property taxes from changes in valuation or real estate tax rates;. • increases in the cost of property insurance;. • changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance;. • unforeseen events beyond our control, such as terrorist attacks, travel related health concerns which could reduce travel, including pandemics and epidemics such as Ebola, H1N1 influenza (swine flu), avian bird flu, SARS and the Zika virus, imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities, travel-related accidents, travel infrastructure interruptions and unusual weather patterns, including natural disasters such as hurricanes, tsunamis or earthquakes;. • adverse effects of international, national, regional and local economic and market conditions and increases in energy costs or labor costs and other expenses affecting travel, which may affect travel patterns and reduce the number of business and commercial travelers and tourists;. • adverse effects of a downturn in the lodging industry; and. • risks generally associated with the ownership of hotel properties and real estate, as we discuss in more detail below.. These factors could adversely affect our hotel revenues and expenses, which in turn could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. We may have to make significant capital expenditures to maintain our hotel properties, and any development activities we undertake may be more costly than we anticipate.. Our hotels have an ongoing need for renovations and other capital improvements, including replacements, from time to time, of furniture, fixtures, and equipment. Managers or franchisors of our hotels also require that we make periodic capital improvements pursuant to our management agreements or as a condition of maintaining franchise licenses. Generally, we are responsible for the cost of these capital improvements. As part of our long-term growth strategy, we may also develop hotels. Hotel renovation and development involves substantial risks, including:. • construction cost overruns and delays;. • the disruption of operations and displacement of revenue at operating hotels, including revenue lost while rooms, restaurants or meeting space under renovation are out of service;. • the cost of funding renovations or developments and inability to obtain financing on attractive terms;. • the return on our investment in these capital improvements or developments failing to meet expectations;. • inability to obtain all necessary zoning, land use, building, occupancy, and construction permits;. 54. Table of Contents. • loss of substantial investment in a development project if a project is abandoned before completion;. • environmental problems; and. • disputes with franchisors or property managers regarding compliance with relevant franchise agreements or management agreements.. If we have insufficient cash flow from operations to fund needed capital expenditures, then we will need to borrow, sell assets or sell additional equity securities to fund future capital improvements.. The hotel business is seasonal, which affects our results of operations from quarter to quarter.. The hotel industry is seasonal in nature. This seasonality can cause quarterly fluctuations in our financial condition and operating results, including in the amount available for distributions on our common stock. Our quarterly operating results may be adversely affected by factors outside our control, including weather conditions and poor economic factors in certain markets in which we operate. Our cash flows may not be sufficient to offset any shortfalls that occur as a result of these fluctuations. As a result, we may have to reduce distributions or enter into short-term borrowings in certain quarters in order to make distributions to our stockholders. Such borrowings may not be available on favorable terms, if at all.. The cyclical nature of the lodging industry may cause fluctuations in our operating performance, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results.. The lodging industry historically has been highly cyclical in nature. Fluctuations in lodging demand and, therefore, hotel operating performance, are caused largely by general economic and local market conditions, which subsequently affect levels of business and leisure travel. In addition to general economic conditions, new hotel room supply is an important factor that can affect the lodging industry's performance, and overbuilding has the potential to further exacerbate the negative impact of an economic recession. Room rates and occupancy, and thus RevPAR, tend to increase when demand growth exceeds supply growth. An adverse change in lodging fundamentals could result in returns that are substantially below our expectations or result in losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results.. Many of our real estate-related costs are fixed, and will not decrease even if revenue from our hotels decreases.. Many costs, such as real estate taxes, insurance premiums and maintenance costs, generally are not reduced even when a hotel is not fully occupied, room rates decrease or other circumstances cause a reduction in revenues. In addition, newly acquired or renovated hotels may not produce the revenues we anticipate immediately, or at all, and the hotel's operating cash flow may be insufficient to pay the operating expenses and debt service associated with these new hotels. If we are unable to offset real estate costs with sufficient revenues across our portfolio, our operating results and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders may be adversely affected.. The increasing use of Internet travel intermediaries by consumers may adversely affect our profitability.. Some of our hotel rooms are booked through Internet travel intermediaries, including, but not limited to, Travelocity.com, Expedia.com and Priceline.com. As Internet bookings increase, these intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions, reduced room rates or other significant contract concessions from our management companies. Moreover, some of these Internet travel intermediaries are attempting to offer hotel rooms as a commodity, by increasing the importance of price and general indicators of quality (such as \"three-star downtown hotel\") at the expense of brand identification. These intermediaries hope that consumers will eventually develop brand loyalties to their reservations system rather than to the brands under which our properties are franchised. If the amount of sales made through Internet intermediaries increases significantly and results in a decrease in consumer loyalty to the brands under which our hotels are franchised, our rooms revenues may be lower than expected, and our profitability may be adversely affected.. Our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected by increased use of business-related technology, which may reduce the need for business-related travel.. The increased use of teleconference and video-conference technology by businesses could result in decreased business travel as companies increase the use of technologies that allow multiple parties from different locations to participate at meetings without traveling to a centralized meeting location. To the extent that such technologies play an increased role in day-to-day business and the necessity for business-related travel decreases, hotel room demand may decrease and our revenues, profitability and ability to make distributions to our stockholders may be adversely affected.. 55. Table of Contents. Future terrorist attacks or changes in terror alert levels could materially and adversely affect our business.. Previous terrorist attacks and subsequent terrorist alerts have adversely affected the U.S. travel and hospitality industries since 2001, often disproportionately to the effect on the overall economy. The extent of the impact that actual or threatened terrorist attacks in the U.S. or elsewhere could have on domestic and international travel and our business in particular cannot be determined, but any such attacks or the threat of such attacks could have a material adverse effect on travel and hotel demand, our ability to finance our business and our ability to insure our hotels. Any of these events could materially and adversely affect our business, our operating results and our prospects.. We are subject to risks associated with the employment of hotel personnel, particularly with respect to hotels that employ unionized labor.. Our third-party managers are responsible for hiring and maintaining the labor force at each of our hotels. Although we do not directly employ or manage employees at our hotels, we still are subject to many of the costs and risks generally associated with the hotel labor force, particularly with respect to hotels with unionized labor. From time to time, hotel operations may be disrupted as a result of strikes, lockouts, public demonstrations or other negative actions and publicity. We also may incur increased legal costs and indirect labor costs as a result of contract disputes or other events. The resolution of labor disputes or re-negotiated labor contracts could lead to increased labor costs, either by increases in wages or benefits or by changes in work rules that raise hotel operating costs. We do not have the ability to affect the outcome of these disputes.. Risks Related to the Real Estate Industry. Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our hotel properties and harm our financial condition.. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to sell promptly one or more hotel properties for reasonable prices in response to changing economic, financial, and investment conditions is limited.. The real estate market is affected by many factors that are beyond our control, including:. • adverse changes in international, national, regional and local economic and market conditions;. • changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost, and terms of debt financing;. • changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies, and zoning and other ordinances, and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning and other ordinances;. • the ongoing need for capital improvements, particularly in older structures;. • changes in operating expenses; and. • civil unrest, acts of war or terrorism, and acts of God, including earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters, which may result in uninsured and underinsured losses.. We may decide to sell hotel properties in the future. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any hotel property for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a hotel property.. We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. We may not have funds available to correct those defects or to make those improvements. In addition, when we acquire a hotel property, we may agree to lock-out provisions that materially restrict us from selling that property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that property. These and other factors could impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our hotel properties or a need for liquidity.. Increases in property taxes would increase our operating costs, reduce our income and adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. Each of our hotel properties is subject to real and personal property taxes. These taxes may increase as tax rates change and as the properties are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities. If property taxes increase, our financial condition, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders could be materially and adversely affected and the market price of our common stock could decline.. The costs of compliance with or liabilities under environmental laws may harm our operating results.. Operating expenses at our hotels could be higher than anticipated due to the cost of complying with existing or future environmental laws and regulations. In addition, our hotel properties may be subject to environmental liabilities. An owner or. 56. Table of Contents. operator of real property can face liability for environmental contamination created by the presence or discharge of hazardous substances on the property. We may face liability regardless of:. • our knowledge of the contamination;. • the timing of the contamination;. • the cause of the contamination; or. • the party responsible for the contamination.. There may be environmental problems associated with our hotel properties of which we are unaware. Some of our hotel properties use, or may have used in the past, underground tanks for the storage of petroleum-based or waste products that could create a potential for release of hazardous substances. If environmental contamination exists on a hotel property, we could become subject to strict, joint and several liabilities for the contamination if we own the property.. The discovery of material environmental liabilities at our properties could subject us to unanticipated significant costs. The presence of hazardous substances on a property may adversely affect our ability to sell the property on favorable terms or at all, and we may incur substantial remediation costs.. Our environmental insurance policies may not provide sufficient coverage for any environmental liabilities at our properties. In addition, if environmental liabilities are discovered during the underwriting of the insurance policies for any property that we acquire in the future, we may be unable to obtain insurance coverage for the liabilities at commercially reasonable rates or at all. We may experience losses as a result of any of these events.. Numerous treaties, laws and regulations have been enacted to regulate or limit carbon emissions. Changes in the regulations and legislation relating to climate change, and complying with such laws and regulations, may require us to make significant investments in our hotels and could result in increased energy costs at our properties.. Our properties may contain or develop harmful mold, which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediating the problem.. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Concern about indoor exposure to mold has been increasing as exposure to mold may cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. Some of the properties in our portfolio may contain microbial matter such as mold and mildew. As a result, the presence of significant mold at any of our properties could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold from the affected property. In addition, the presence of significant mold could expose us to liability from hotel guests, hotel employees, and others if property damage or health concerns arise.. Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and fire, safety, and other regulations may require us to incur substantial costs.. All of our properties are required to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended (the \"ADA\"). The ADA requires that \"public accommodations,\" such as hotels, be made accessible to people with disabilities. Compliance with the ADA's requirements could require removal of access barriers and non-compliance could result in imposition of fines by the U.S. government or an award of damages to private litigants, or both. In addition, we are required to operate our properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes, and other land use regulations as they may be adopted by governmental agencies and bodies and become applicable to our properties. Any requirement to make substantial modifications to our hotel properties, whether to comply with the ADA or other changes in governmental rules and regulations, could be costly.. We may experience uninsured or underinsured losses.. We maintain property and casualty insurance with respect to our hotel properties and other insurance, in each case, with loss limits and coverage thresholds deemed reasonable by our management team (and to satisfy the requirements of lenders and franchisors). In doing so, we make decisions with respect to what deductibles, policy limits, and terms are reasonable based on management's experience, our risk profile, the loss history of our property managers and our properties, the nature of our properties and our businesses, our loss prevention efforts, and the cost of insurance.. Various types of catastrophic losses may not be insurable or may not be economically insurable. In the event of a substantial loss, our insurance coverage may not cover the full current market value or replacement cost of our lost investment. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations, and other factors might cause insurance proceeds to be insufficient to fully replace or renovate a hotel after it has been damaged or destroyed. Accordingly, it is possible that:. 57. Table of Contents. • the insurance coverage thresholds that we have obtained may not fully protect us against insurable losses (i.e., losses may exceed coverage limits);. • we may incur large deductibles that adversely affect our earnings;. • we may incur losses from risks that are not insurable or that are not economically insurable; and. • current coverage thresholds may not continue to be available at reasonable rates.. In the future, we may choose not to maintain terrorism insurance on any of our properties. As a result, one or more large uninsured or underinsured losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. Each of our current lenders requires us to maintain certain insurance coverage thresholds. If a lender does not believe we have complied with these requirements, the lender could obtain additional coverage thresholds and seek payment from us, or declare us in default under the loan documents. In the former case, we could spend more for insurance than we otherwise deem reasonable or necessary or, in the latter case, the hotels collateralizing one or more loans could be foreclosed upon. In addition, a material casualty to one or more hotels collateralizing loans may result in the insurance company applying to the outstanding loan balance insurance proceeds that otherwise would be available to repair the damage caused by the casualty, which would require us to fund the repairs through other sources. The lender may also foreclose on the hotels if there is a material loss that is not insured.. Risks Related to Derivative Transactions. We are subject to the risk of default or insolvency by the hospitality entities underlying our investments.. The leveraged capital structure of the hospitality entities underlying our investments will increase their exposure to adverse economic factors (such as rising interest rates, competitive pressures, downturns in the economy or deterioration in the condition of the real estate industry) and to the risk of unforeseen events. If an underlying entity cannot generate adequate cash flow to meet such entity's debt obligations (which may include leveraged obligations in excess of its aggregate assets), it may default on its loan agreements or be forced into bankruptcy. As a result, we may suffer a partial or total loss of the capital we have invested in the securities and other investments of such entity.. Risks Related to Investments in Securities. Our earnings are dependent, in part, upon the performance of our investment portfolio.. To the extent permitted by the Internal Revenue Code, we may invest in and own securities of other public companies and REITs (including Ashford Inc.). To the extent that the value of those investments declines or those investments do not provide an attractive return, our earnings and cash flow could be adversely affected.. Our prior investment performance is not indicative of future results.. The performance of our prior investments is not necessarily indicative of the results that can be expected for the investments to be made by our investment subsidiary. On any given investment, total loss of the investment is possible. Although our management team has experience and has had success in making investments in real estate-related lodging debt and hotel assets, the past performance of these investments is not necessarily indicative of the results of our future investments.. Our investment portfolio will contain investments concentrated in a single industry and will not be fully diversified.. Currently, our only investment is in Ashford Inc. and to the extent we seek other investments, we would expect that they will be in lodging-related entities. As such, our investment portfolio will contain investments concentrated in a single industry and may not be fully diversified by asset class, geographic region or other criteria, which will expose us to significant loss due to concentration risk. Investors have no assurance that the degree of diversification in our investment portfolio will increase at any time in the future.. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure. Our charter contains provisions that may delay or prevent a change of control transaction.. Our charter contains 9.8% ownership limits. For the purpose of preserving our REIT qualification, our charter prohibits direct or constructive ownership by any person of more than:. • 9.8% of the lesser of the total number or value of the outstanding shares of our common stock, or. • 9.8% of the lesser of the total number or value of the outstanding shares of any class or series of our preferred stock or any other stock of our company, unless our board of directors grants a waiver.. 58. Table of Contents. Our charter's constructive ownership rules are complex and may cause stock owned actually or constructively by a group of related individuals and/or entities to be deemed to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. As a result, the acquisition of less than 9.8% of our common stock by an individual or entity could nevertheless cause that individual or entity to own constructively in excess of 9.8% of the outstanding common stock, and thus be subject to our charter's ownership limit. Any attempt to own or transfer shares of our common stock in excess of the ownership limit without the consent of our board of directors will be void, and could result in the shares being automatically transferred to a charitable trust.. Our board of directors may create and issue a class or series of preferred stock without stockholder approval.. Our charter authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock in one or more classes and to establish the preferences and rights of any class of preferred stock issued. Subject to the terms of any outstanding classes or series of preferred stock, these actions can be taken without obtaining stockholder approval. Our preferred stock issuances could have the effect of delaying or preventing someone from taking control of us, even if our stockholders believe that a change in control was in their best interests.. Certain provisions in the partnership agreement for our operating partnership may delay or prevent unsolicited acquisitions of us.. Provisions in the partnership agreement of our operating partnership may delay or make more difficult unsolicited acquisitions of us or changes in our control. These provisions could discourage third parties from making proposals involving an unsolicited acquisition of us or change of our control, although some stockholders might consider such proposals, if made, desirable. These provisions include, among others:. • redemption rights of qualifying parties;. • transfer restrictions on our common units;. • the ability of the general partner in some cases to amend the partnership agreement without the consent of the limited partners; and. • the right of the limited partners to consent to transfers of the general partnership interest and mergers of the operating partnership under specified circumstances.. Certain provisions of Maryland law could inhibit changes in control.. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law (the \"MGCL\") may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or impeding a change of control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our stockholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our common stock, including:. • \"business combination\" provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an \"interested stockholder\" (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or an affiliate thereof) for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter impose special stockholder voting requirements on these business combinations, unless certain fair price requirements set forth in the MGCL are satisfied; and. • \"control share\" provisions that provide that \"control shares\" of our company (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a \"control share acquisition\" (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of outstanding \"control shares\") have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares.. Our charter opts out of each of these requirements, but we may later amend our charter, with stockholder approval, to modify or eliminate these opt-out provisions.. Our charter provides that a director may be removed only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast in the election of directors. Our charter defines cause to mean, with respect to any particular director, conviction of a felony or a final judgment of court of competent jurisdiction holding that such director caused demonstrable, material harm to us through bad faith or active deliberate dishonesty. Subtitle 8 of Title 3 of the MGCL permits a Maryland corporation with a class of equity securities registered under the Exchange Act and at least three independent directors to elect to be subject, notwithstanding any contrary provision in the charter or bylaws, to any or all of the following five provisions: a classified board; a two-thirds stockholder vote requirement for removal of a director; a requirement that the number of directors be fixed only by vote of the directors; a requirement that a vacancy on the board of directors be filled only by the remaining directors and for the remainder of the full term of the class of directors in which the vacancy occurred; and a requirement that the holders of at least a majority of all votes entitled to be cast request a special meeting of stockholders. Through provisions in our charter and bylaws unrelated to Subtitle 8, we already require that the number of directors be fixed only by our board of directors and require,. 59. Table of Contents. unless called by the Chairman of our board of directors, our president or chief executive officer or a majority of our board of directors, the written request of stockholders entitled to cast not less than a majority of all votes entitled to be cast at such meeting to call a special meeting. Our board of directors has made an election that prohibits us from making any of the elections permitted by Subtitle 8 unless such election is first approved by a stockholder vote.. Our charter, bylaws, the partnership agreement for our operating partnership and Maryland law contain other provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders.. Our board of directors can take many actions without stockholder approval.. Our board of directors has overall authority to oversee our business and affairs and determine our major corporate policies. This authority includes significant flexibility. For example, our board of directors can do the following without stockholder approval:. • terminate Ashford LLC under certain conditions pursuant to our advisory agreement;. • amend or revise at any time and from time to time our investment, financing, borrowing and dividend policies and our policies with respect to all other activities, including growth, debt, capitalization and operations;. • amend our policies with respect to conflicts of interest provided that such changes are consistent with applicable legal requirements;. • subject to the terms of our charter, prevent the ownership, transfer and/or accumulation of shares in order to protect our status as a REIT or for any other reason deemed to be in the best interests of us and our stockholders;. • subject to the terms of any outstanding classes or series of preferred stock, issue additional shares without obtaining stockholder approval, which could dilute the ownership of our then-current stockholders;. • subject to the terms of any outstanding classes or series of preferred stock, amend our charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series, without obtaining stockholder approval;. • subject to the terms of any outstanding classes or series of preferred stock, classify or reclassify any unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock and set the preferences, rights and other terms of such classified or reclassified shares, including provisions that may have an anti-takeover effect, without obtaining stockholder approval;. • employ and compensate affiliates;. • direct our resources toward investments that do not ultimately appreciate over time; and. • determine that it is no longer in our best interests to attempt to qualify, or to continue to qualify, as a REIT.. Any of these actions could increase our operating expenses, impact our ability to make distributions or reduce the value of our assets without giving our stockholders the right to vote on whether we should take such actions.. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited.. Maryland law provides that a director or officer has no liability in that capacity if he or she performs his or her duties in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in our best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. In addition, our charter eliminates our directors' and officers' liability to us and our stockholders for money damages except for liability resulting from actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services or a judgment of active and deliberate dishonesty that was material to the cause of action. Our charter requires us to indemnify our directors and officers to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law for liability actually incurred in connection with any proceeding to which they may be made, or threatened to be made, a party, except to the extent that the act or omission of the director or officer was material to the matter giving rise to the proceeding and was either committed in bad faith or was the result of active and deliberate dishonesty, the director or officer actually received an improper personal benefit in money, property or services, or, in the case of any criminal proceeding, the director or officer had reasonable cause to believe that the act or omission was unlawful. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our directors and officers than might otherwise exist under common law. In addition, we may be obligated to advance the defense costs incurred by our directors and officers, prior to any determination regarding the availability of indemnification if actions are taken against them in their capacity as directors and officers.. Future issuances of securities, including our common stock and preferred stock, could reduce existing investors' relative voting power and percentage of ownership and may dilute our share value.. Our charter authorizes the issuance of up to 200,000,000 shares of common stock and 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock. As of March 12, 2018, we had 32,120,210 shares of our common stock issued and outstanding and 4,965,850 shares of our 5.50%. 60. Table of Contents. Series B Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock (the \"Series B Preferred Stock\") outstanding. No shares of our Series C Preferred Stock (the \"Series C Preferred Stock\") were outstanding as of March 12, 2018. Accordingly, we may issue up to an additional 167,879,790 shares of common stock and 45,034,150 shares of preferred stock, including up to 4,750,000 shares of our Series C Preferred Stock.. Each limited partner of Ashford Prime OP and each person that becomes a limited partner of Ashford Prime OP has the right to purchase at any time one share of Series C Preferred Stock for each share of common stock of the Company that the Partnership Units (as defined herein) held by such limited partner may be converted into. Limited partners of Ashford Prime OP that elect to purchase shares of Series C Preferred Stock are required to pay the applicable subscription price of $0.01 per share of Series C Preferred Stock and deliver to the Company an executed subscription agreement in the form provided by the Company. Ashford Prime OP limited partners collectively hold Partnership Units representing approximately 13.0% of Ashford Prime's outstanding common stock on a fully-diluted, as-converted basis.. Future issuances of common stock or preferred stock, including our Series C Preferred Stock, could decrease the relative voting power of our common stock or preferred stock and may cause substantial dilution in the ownership percentage of our then existing holders of common or preferred stock. We may value any common stock or preferred stock issued in the future on an arbitrary basis including for services or acquisitions or other corporate actions that may have the effect of reducing investors' relative voting power and/or diluting the net tangible book value of the shares held by our stockholders, and might have an adverse effect on any trading market for our securities. Our board of directors may designate the rights, terms and preferences of our authorized but unissued preferred shares at its discretion, including conversion and voting preferences without notice to our stockholders. See \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Recent Developments-Second Amended and Restated Partnership Agreement\" and note 15 to our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2017.. Risks Related to Our Status as a REIT. Failure to qualify as a REIT, or failure to remain qualified as a REIT, would cause us to be taxed as a regular corporation, which would substantially reduce funds available for distributions to our stockholders.. We operate in a manner intended to allow us to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We believe that our organization and current and proposed method of operation will enable us to meet the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 2013. However, we may not qualify or remain qualified as a REIT.. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for distributions to our stockholders because:. • we would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates;. • we could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax for the taxable years beginning before January 1, 2018, and possibly increased state and local income taxes; and. • unless we are entitled to relief under certain U.S. federal income tax laws, we could not re-elect REIT status until the fifth calendar year after the year in which we failed to qualify as a REIT.. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will no longer be required to make distributions. As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, make distributions to our stockholders and it would adversely affect the value of our securities.. If Ashford Trust failed to qualify as a REIT in any of its 2009 through 2013 taxable years, we would be prevented from electing to qualify as a REIT under applicable Treasury Regulations until the fifth year after such failure.. Under applicable Treasury Regulations, if Ashford Trust failed to qualify as a REIT in any of its 2009 through 2013 taxable years, unless Ashford Trust's failure to qualify as a REIT was subject to relief under U.S. federal income tax laws, we would be prevented from electing to qualify as a REIT prior to the fifth calendar year following the year in which Ashford Trust failed to qualify.. Even if we qualify and remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow.. Even if we qualify and remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state, and local taxes on our income and assets, as well as foreign taxes to the extent that we own assets or conduct operations in international jurisdictions. For example:. 61. Table of Contents. • We will be required to pay tax on undistributed REIT taxable income.. • If we have net income from the disposition of foreclosure property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business or other non-qualifying income from foreclosure property, we must pay tax on that income at the highest corporate rate.. • If we sell a property in a \"prohibited transaction,\" our gain from the sale would be subject to a 100% penalty tax.. • Each of our taxable REIT subsidiaries is a fully taxable corporation and will be subject to federal and state taxes on its income.. • We may experience increases in our state and local income tax burden. Over the past several years, certain state and local taxing authorities have significantly changed their income tax regimes in order to raise revenues. The changes enacted include the taxation of modified gross receipts (as opposed to net taxable income), the suspension of and/or limitation on the use of net operating loss deductions, increases in tax rates and fees, the addition of surcharges, and the taxation of our partnership income at the entity level. Facing mounting budget deficits, more state and local taxing authorities have indicated that they are going to revise their income tax regimes in this fashion and/or eliminate certain federally allowed tax deductions such as the REIT dividends paid deduction.. Failure to make required distributions would subject us to U.S. federal corporate income tax.. We intend to operate in a manner so as to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In order to qualify as a REIT, we generally are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gain, each year to our stockholders. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, we will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under the Internal Revenue Code.. Our TRS structure increases our overall tax liability.. Our TRSs are subject to federal, state and local income tax on their taxable income, which consists of the revenues from the hotel properties leased by our TRS lessees, or, in the case of the Ritz Carlton St. Thomas hotel, owned by our TRS, net of the operating expenses for such hotel properties and, in the case of hotel properties leased by our TRS lessees, rent payments to us. Accordingly, although our ownership of our TRS allows us to participate in the operating income from our hotel properties in addition to receiving rent, the net operating income is fully subject to income tax. The after-tax net income of our TRS is available for distribution to us, subject to any applicable withholding requirements.. If our leases with our TRS lessees are not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, we would fail to qualify as a REIT.. To qualify as a REIT, we are required to satisfy two gross income tests, pursuant to which specified percentages of our gross income must be passive income, such as rent. For the rent paid pursuant to the hotel leases with our TRS lessees, which constitutes substantially all of our gross income, to qualify for purposes of the gross income tests, the leases must be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes and must not be treated as service contracts, joint ventures or some other type of arrangement. We have structured our leases, and intend to structure any future leases, so that the leases will be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, but the IRS may not agree with this characterization. If the leases were not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, we would not be able to satisfy either of the two gross income tests applicable to REITs and likely would fail to qualify as a REIT.. Our ownership of TRSs is limited and our transactions with our TRSs will cause us to be subject to a 100% penalty tax on certain income or deductions if those transactions are not conducted on arm's-length terms.. A REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more TRSs. A TRS may hold assets and earn income that would not be qualifying assets or income if held or earned directly by a REIT, including gross operating income from hotels that are operated by eligible independent contractors pursuant to hotel management agreements. Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a TRS. A corporation of which a TRS directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a TRS. Overall, no more than 25% (20% with respect to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017) of the value of a REIT's assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs. In addition, the TRS rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm's-length basis. Finally, for taxable years ending after December 31, 2015, the 100% excise tax also applies to the underpricing of services by a TRS to its parent REIT in contexts where the services are unrelated to services for REIT tenants.. 62. Table of Contents. Our TRSs are subject to federal, foreign, state and local income tax on their taxable income, and their after-tax net income is available for distribution to us but is not required to be distributed to us. We believe that the aggregate value of the stock and securities of our TRSs is less than 20% of the value of our total assets (including our TRS stock and securities).. We monitor the value of our respective investments in our TRSs for the purpose of ensuring compliance with TRS ownership limitations. In addition, we scrutinize all of our transactions with our TRSs to ensure that they are entered into on arm's-length terms to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above. For example, in determining the amounts payable by our TRSs under our leases, we engaged a third party to prepare transfer pricing studies to ascertain whether the lease terms we established are on an arm's-length basis as required by applicable Treasury Regulations. However, the receipt of a transfer pricing study does not prevent the IRS from challenging the arm's length nature of the lease terms between a REIT and its TRS lessees. Consequently, we may not be able to avoid application of the 100% excise tax discussed above. Moreover, the IRS may impose excise taxes and penalties based on transactions that occurred prior to the spin-off.. If our hotel managers do not qualify as \"eligible independent contractors,\" we would fail to qualify as a REIT.. Rent paid by a lessee that is a \"related party tenant\" of ours will not be qualifying income for purposes of the two gross income tests applicable to REITs. We lease all of our hotels to our TRS lessees, except for the Ritz-Carlton St. Thomas hotel, which is owned by one of our TRSs. A TRS lessee will not be treated as a \"related party tenant,\" and will not be treated as directly operating a lodging facility, which is prohibited, to the extent the TRS lessee leases properties from us that are managed by an \"eligible independent contractor.\". We believe that the rent paid by our TRS lessees is qualifying income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests and that our TRSs qualify to be treated as taxable REIT subsidiaries for U.S. federal income tax purposes, but the IRS could challenge this treatment and a court could sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in challenging this treatment, it is possible that we would fail to meet the asset tests applicable to REITs and substantially all of our income would fail to qualify for the gross income tests. If we failed to meet either the asset or gross income tests, we would likely lose our REIT qualification for federal income tax purposes, unless certain relief provisions applied. If our hotel managers do not qualify as \"eligible independent contractors,\" we would fail to qualify as a REIT. Each of the hotel management companies that enters into a management contract with our TRS lessees must qualify as an \"eligible independent contractor\" under the REIT rules in order for the rent paid to us by our TRS lessees to be qualifying income for our REIT income test requirements. Among other requirements, in order to qualify as an eligible independent contractor a manager must not own more than 35% of our outstanding shares (by value) and no person or group of persons can own more than 35% of our outstanding shares and the ownership interests of the manager, taking into account only owners of more than 5% of our shares and, with respect to ownership interests in such managers that are publicly-traded, only holders of more than 5% of such ownership interests. Complex ownership attribution rules apply for purposes of these 35% thresholds. Although we intend to monitor ownership of our shares by our property managers and their owners, it is possible that these ownership levels could be exceeded.. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities.. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our shares of beneficial interest. In order to meet these tests, we may be required to forego investments we might otherwise make. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may have a material adverse effect on our performance.. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to liquidate otherwise attractive investments.. To qualify as a REIT, we must also ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities, and qualified REIT real estate assets. The remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, no more than 25% (20% with respect to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017) of the value of our total assets can be represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries and, beginning after December 31, 2015, no more than 25% of the value of our total assets can be represented by certain publicly offered REIT debt instruments.. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct such failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter to avoid losing our REIT status and suffering adverse tax consequences. As a result, we may be required to liquidate otherwise attractive investments.. 63. Table of Contents. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to borrow to make distributions to stockholders.. As a REIT, we must distribute at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income, excluding net capital gains, (subject to certain adjustments) to our stockholders. To the extent that we satisfy the distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under federal tax laws.. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our net income for financial reporting purposes or our taxable income may be greater than our cash flow available for distribution to stockholders. If we do not have other funds available in these situations, we could be required to borrow funds, sell investments at disadvantageous prices, or find another alternative source of funds to make distributions sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce the value of our equity.. We may elect to pay dividends on our common stock in cash or a combination of cash and shares of securities as permitted under U.S. federal income tax laws governing REIT distribution requirements. To the extent that we make distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits (as determined for federal income tax purposes), such distributions would generally be considered a return of capital for U.S. federal income tax purposes to the extent of the holder's adjusted tax basis in its shares. A return of capital is not taxable, but it has the effect of reducing the holder's adjusted tax basis in its investment. To the extent that distributions exceed the adjusted tax basis of a holder's shares, they will be treated as gain from the sale or exchange of such stock.. We may pay taxable dividends in our common stock and cash, in which case stockholders may sell our common stock to pay tax on such dividends, placing downward pressure on the market price of our common stock.. We may distribute taxable dividends that are payable in cash and common stock at the election of each stockholder subject to certain limitations, including that the cash portion be at least 20% of the total distribution.. If we make a taxable dividend payable in cash and common stock, taxable stockholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, stockholders may be required to pay income tax with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash dividends received. If a U.S. stockholder sells the common stock that it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our common stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to certain non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. federal income tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in common stock. If we made a taxable dividend payable in cash and our common stock and a significant number of our stockholders determine to sell shares of our common stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. We do not currently intend to pay taxable dividends of our common stock and cash, although we may choose to do so in the future.. The prohibited transactions tax may limit our ability to dispose of our properties.. A REIT's net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We may be subject to the prohibited transaction tax equal to 100% of net gain upon a disposition of real property. We may not be able to comply with the safe harbor to the characterization of the sale of real property by a REIT as a prohibited transaction. Consequently, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of our properties or we may conduct such sales through our TRS, which would be subject to federal and state income taxation.. The ability of our board of directors to revoke our REIT qualification without stockholder approval may cause adverse consequences to our stockholders.. Our charter provides that our board of directors may revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election, without the approval of our stockholders, if it determines that it is no longer in our best interest to continue to qualify as a REIT. If we cease to qualify as a REIT, we would become subject to U.S. federal and state and local income taxes on our taxable income and would no longer be required to distribute most of our taxable income to our stockholders, which may have adverse consequences on the total return received by our stockholders.. 64. Table of Contents. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends.. The maximum federal income tax rate applicable to \"qualified dividend income\" payable to U.S. stockholders that are taxed at individual rates is 20%. Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for this reduced maximum rate on qualified dividend income. However, under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act a non-corporate taxpayer may deduct 20% of ordinary REIT dividends that are not \"capital gain dividends\" or \"qualified dividend income\" resulting in an effective maximum federal income tax rate of 29.6%. Individuals, trusts and estates whose income exceeds certain thresholds are also subject to a 3.8% Medicare tax on dividends received from us. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are taxed at individual rates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including our stock.. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our securities.. At any time, the U.S. federal income tax laws governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended. We cannot predict when or if any new U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective and any such law, regulation, or interpretation may take effect retroactively. We and our stockholders could be adversely affected by any such change in the U.S. federal income tax laws, regulations or administrative interpretations. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act signed into law by the President on December 22, 2017 made significant changes to the U.S. federal income tax rules for taxation of individuals and corporations. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act makes numerous other changes to the tax rules that do not affect REITs directly but may affect our shareholders and may indirectly affect us. These changes could have an adverse effect on an investment in our shares or on the market value or the resale potential of our assets. It is possible that future legislation would result in a REIT having fewer advantages, and it could become more advantageous for a company that invests in real estate to elect to be taxed, for federal income tax purposes, as a corporation.. If our operating partnership failed to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, we would cease to qualify as a REIT and suffer other adverse consequences.. We believe that our operating partnership will be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. As a partnership, our operating partnership is not subject to federal income tax on its income. Instead, each of its partners, including us, is allocated, and may be required to pay tax with respect to, its share of our operating partnership's income. The IRS could challenge the status of our operating partnership or any other subsidiary partnership in which we own an interest as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, and a court could sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in treating our operating partnership or any such other subsidiary partnership as an entity taxable as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would fail to meet the gross income tests and certain of the asset tests applicable to REITs and, accordingly, we would likely cease to qualify as a REIT. Also, the failure of our operating partnership or any subsidiary partnerships to qualify as a partnership could cause it to become subject to federal and state corporate income tax, which would reduce significantly the amount of cash available for debt service and for distribution to its partners, including us.. Note that although partnerships have traditionally not been subject to federal income tax at the entity level as described above, new audit rules, currently scheduled to become effective for tax years ending after December 31, 2017, will generally apply to the partnership. Under the new rules, unless an entity elects otherwise, taxes arising from audit adjustments are required to be paid by the entity rather than by its partners or members. We will have the authority to utilize, and intend to utilize, any exceptions available under the new provisions (including any changes) and Treasury Regulations so that the partners, to the fullest extent possible, rather than the partnership itself, will be liable for any taxes arising from audit adjustments to the issuing entity's taxable income. It is unclear to what extent these elections will be available to the partnership and how any such elections may affect the procedural rules available to challenge any audit adjustment that would otherwise be available in the absence of any such elections. Proposed temporary and final Treasury Regulations have been promulgated implementing portions of these new partnership audit rules, but questions remain as to the application of the rules.. Qualifying as a REIT involves highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code.. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which, in certain instances, only limited judicial and administrative authorities exist. Even a technical or inadvertent violation could jeopardize our REIT qualification. Our qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. New legislation, court decisions or administrative guidance, in each case possibly with retroactive effect, may make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT. The Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act of 2015 (the \"PATH Act\") contained a number of changes to the Internal Revenue Code provisions applicable to REITs (with various effective dates), including, among others, (1) a reduction from 25% to 20% of the maximum permitted value of a REIT's assets that can consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs, (2) treatment of debt instruments issued by publicly offered REITs as \"real estate assets\" (however, unless such a debt instrument is secured by. 65. Table of Contents. a mortgage or otherwise would have qualified as a real estate asset under prior law, (i) interest income and gain from such a debt instrument is not qualifying income for purposes of one of the REIT gross income tests, the 75% gross income test, and (ii) all such debt instruments may represent no more than 25% of the value of a REIT's assets), and (3) a new 100% excise tax that applies to the extent it is determined that a REIT has been undercharged for certain services provided by a taxable REIT subsidiary. We expect that the changes will not materially impact our operations, but will continue to monitor as regulatory guidance is issued. We strongly urge our stockholders to consult their tax advisors concerning the effects of federal, state, and local income tax law on an investment in our stock.. Declines in the values of our investments may make it more difficult for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT or exemption from the Investment Company Act.. If the market value or income potential of real estate-related investments declines as a result of increased interest rates or other factors, we may need to increase our real estate-related investments and income or liquidate our non-qualifying assets in order to maintain our REIT qualification or exemption from the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the \"Investment Company Act\"). If the decline in real estate asset values and/or income occurs quickly, this may be especially difficult to accomplish. This difficulty may be exacerbated by the illiquid nature of any non-qualifying assets that we may own. We may have to make investment decisions that we otherwise would not make absent the REIT and Investment Company Act considerations.. Risks Related to our Common Stock. Broad market fluctuations could negatively impact the market price of our stock.. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Some of the factors that could affect our stock price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include:. • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results;. • changes in our operations or earnings estimates or publication of research reports about us or the industry;. • changes in market valuations of similar companies;. • adverse market reaction to any increased indebtedness we incur in the future;. • additions or departures of key management personnel;. • actions by institutional stockholders;. • failure to meet and maintain REIT qualification;. • speculation in the press or investment community; and. • general market and economic conditions.. In addition, the stock market has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of many companies in industries similar or related to ours and may have been unrelated to operating performances of these companies. These broad market fluctuations could reduce the market price of our common stock.. Future offerings of debt securities, which would be senior to our common stock upon liquidation, and future offerings of equity securities, which would dilute our existing stockholders and may be senior to our common stock for the purposes of dividend and liquidating distributions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by making offerings of debt or equity securities, including commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior or subordinated notes, convertible securities, and classes of preferred stock or common stock or classes of preferred units. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and preferred stock or preferred units and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Preferred stock and preferred units, if issued, could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments that could limit our ability to make a distribution to the holders of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing, or nature of our future offerings. Thus, our stockholders bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our securities and diluting their securities holdings in us.. 66. Table of Contents. The number of shares available for future sale could adversely affect the per share trading price of our common stock.. We cannot predict whether future issuances of shares of our common stock or the availability of shares for resale in the open market will decrease the per share trading price of our common stock. The issuance of substantial numbers of shares of our common stock in the public market, or upon exchange of common units of our operating partnership, or the perception that such issuances might occur, could adversely affect the per share trading price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock in the public market, or upon exchange of the common units, or speculation that such sales might occur, could adversely affect the liquidity of the market for our common stock or the prevailing market price of our common stock. In addition, the exchange of common units for common stock, the exercise of any stock options or the vesting of any restricted stock granted under the 2013 Equity Incentive Plan and the Advisor Equity Incentive Plan, the issuance of our common stock or common units in connection with property, portfolio or business acquisitions and other issuances of our common stock or common units could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of March 12, 2018, we have 4,789,729 common units outstanding, representing 13.0% of our Company on a fully diluted basis, and our directors and executive officers as a group own 2,861,769 common units representing 7.8% of our Company, on a fully diluted basis. Such common units may be redeemed by the holders for cash or, at our option, shares of our common stock on a one-for-one basis. The holders of these common units may sell shares issued to them, if any, upon redemption of the common units. So long as the holders of common units retain significant ownership in us and are able to sell such shares in the public markets, the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Moreover, the existence of shares of our common stock reserved for issuance as restricted shares or upon exchange of options or common units may adversely affect the terms upon which we may be able to obtain additional capital through the sale of equity securities. Any future sales by us of our common stock or securities convertible into common stock may be dilutive to existing stockholders.. Our cash available for distribution to stockholders may be insufficient to pay distributions at any particular levels or in amounts sufficient to maintain our REIT qualification, and we may borrow funds to make distributions.. As a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income each year, excluding net capital gains, to our stockholders. However, all distributions will be authorized and determined by our board of directors in its sole discretion out of funds legally available therefor and will depend upon a number of factors, including restrictions under applicable law, actual and projected financial condition, liquidity, EBITDA, which is defined as our net income (loss) before interest expense and amortization of loan costs, interest income, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, and redeemable noncontrolling interests in our operating partnership, funds from operations, or FFO, and results of operations, the revenue we actually receive from our properties, our operating expenses, our debt service requirements, our capital expenditures, prohibitions and other limitations under our financing arrangements, our REIT taxable income, the annual REIT distribution requirements and such other factors as our board deems relevant. Our ability to make distributions may be adversely affected by the risk factors included herein.. In the event of downturns in our financial condition or operating results, economic conditions or otherwise, we may be unable to declare or pay distributions to our stockholders to the extent required to maintain our REIT qualification. We may be required either to fund distributions from borrowings under our secured revolving credit facility or to reduce our distributions. If we borrow to fund distributions, our interest costs would increase, thereby reducing our earnings and cash available for distribution from what they otherwise would have been.. The market price of our common stock could be adversely affected by our level of cash distributions.. The market value of the equity securities of a REIT is based primarily upon the market's perception of the REIT's growth potential and its current and potential future cash distributions, whether from operations, sales or refinancings, and is secondarily based upon the real estate market value of the underlying assets. For that reason, our common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than our net asset value per share. To the extent we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves or other purposes, these retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may not correspondingly increase the market price of our common stock. Our failure to meet the market's expectations with regard to future earnings and cash distributions likely would adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Our stock repurchase program could increase the volatility of the price of our common stock.. Our board of directors has approved a share repurchase program under which we may purchase up to $50 million of our common stock from time to time. The specific timing, manner, price, amount and other terms of the repurchases, if any, will be at management's discretion and will depend on market conditions, corporate and regulatory requirements and other factors. We are not required to repurchase shares under the repurchase program, and the board of directors may modify, suspend or terminate the repurchase program at any time for any reason. As of March 12, 2018, $50.0 million remains available for repurchases under the current stock repurchase program. We cannot predict the impact that future repurchases, if any, of our common stock under this program will have on our stock price or earnings per share. Important factors that could cause us to discontinue or decrease our share repurchases include, among others, unfavorable market conditions, the market price of our common stock, the nature. 67. Table of Contents. of other investment or strategic opportunities presented to us from time to time, the rate of dilution of our equity compensation programs, our ability to make appropriate, timely, and beneficial decisions as to when, how, and whether to purchase shares under the stock repurchase program, and the availability of funds necessary to continue purchasing stock. If we curtail our repurchase program, our stock price may be negatively affected."
