[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. We operate in highly competitive industries.. We compete in industries that are subject to significant competition and pricing pressures in most markets.  In addition, our business model requires significant fixed costs associated with offering many of our services including costs to operate a fleet of armored vehicles and a network of secure branches.  Because we believe we have competitive advantages such as brand name recognition and a reputation for a high level of service and security, we resist competing on price alone.  However, continued pricing pressure from competitors or failure to achieve pricing based on the competitive advantages identified above could result in lost volume of business and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  In addition, given the highly competitive nature of our industries, it is important to develop new solutions and product and service offerings to help retain and expand our customer base.  Failure to develop, sell and execute new solutions and offerings in a timely and efficient manner could also negatively affect our ability to retain our existing customer base or pricing structure and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Decreased use of cash could have a negative impact on our business.. The proliferation of payment options other than cash, including credit cards, debit cards, stored-value cards, mobile payments and on-line purchase activity, could result in a reduced need for cash in the marketplace and a decline in the need for physical bank branches and retail stores.  To mitigate this risk, we are developing new lines of business and investing in adjacent security-related markets, but there is a risk that these initiatives may not offset the risks associated with our traditional cash-based business and that our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted.. Our strategy may not be successful.. Our strategy has three pillars: accelerate profitable growth, close the gap with competitors and introduce differentiated services.  We may not be successful in growing revenue in high-margin lines of business, increasing our market share with existing customers or winning new business with smaller financial institutions and the retail market. Although we have already begun a drive to improve productivity and optimize costs, we may not be able to achieve industry-leading margins. We also may not be successful in strengthening and leveraging our IT capabilities to improve service levels and drive efficiencies. If we are unable to achieve our strategic objectives and anticipated operating profit improvements, our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected.. We have significant operations outside the United States.. We currently serve customers in more than 100 countries, including 41 countries where we operate subsidiaries.  Seventy-seven percent (77%) of our revenues in 2017 came from operations outside the U.S.  We expect revenues outside the U.S. to continue to represent a significant portion of total revenues.  Business operations outside the U.S. are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating in foreign countries, such as:. • the difficulty of enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and protecting assets through foreign legal systems;. • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements;. • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations;. • required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations;. • enforcement of our global compliance program in foreign countries with a variety of laws, cultures and customs;. • varying permitting and licensing requirements in different jurisdictions;. • foreign ownership laws;. • changes in the general political and economic conditions in the countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets;. • threat of nationalization and expropriation;. • higher costs and risks of doing business in a number of foreign jurisdictions;. • laws or other requirements and restrictions associated with organized labor;. • limitations on the repatriation of earnings;. • fluctuations in equity, revenues and profits due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, including measures taken by governments to devalue official currency exchange rates;. • inflation levels exceeding that of the U.S; and. • inability to collect for services provided to government entities.. We are exposed to certain risks when we operate in countries that have high levels of inflation, including the risk that:. • the rate of price increases for services will not keep pace with the cost of inflation;. • adverse economic conditions may discourage business growth which could affect demand for our services;. • the devaluation of the currency may exceed the rate of inflation and reported U.S. dollar revenues and profits may decline; and. • these countries may be deemed \"highly inflationary\" for U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (\"GAAP\") purposes.. We manage these risks by monitoring current and anticipated political and economic developments, monitoring adherence to our global compliance program and adjusting operations as appropriate.  Changes in the political or economic environments of the countries in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 8. Our business success depends on retaining our leadership team and attracting and retaining qualified personnel.. Our future success depends, in part, on the continuing services and contributions of our leadership team to execute on our strategic plan and to identify and pursue new opportunities. Our future success also depends, in part, on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. Any turnover in senior management or inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could have a negative effect on our results of operations.  Turnover in key leadership positions within the Company may adversely affect our ability to manage the company efficiently and effectively, could be disruptive and distracting to management and may lead to additional departures of current personnel, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We may be unable to achieve, or may be delayed in achieving, our initiatives to drive efficiency and control costs.. We have launched a number of initiatives, including the reorganization and restructuring actions described on page 6, to improve efficiencies and reduce operating costs.  Although we have achieved annual cost savings associated with these initiatives, we may be unable to sustain the cost savings that we have achieved.  In addition, if we are unable to achieve, or have any unexpected delays in achieving additional cost savings, our results of operations and cash flow may be adversely affected.  Even if we meet our goals as a result of these initiatives, we may not receive the expected financial benefits of these initiatives.. We may not be successful in pursuing strategic investments or acquisitions or realize the expected benefits of those transactions because of integration difficulties and other challenges.. While we may identify opportunities for acquisitions and investments to support our growth strategy, as well as divestiture opportunities, our due diligence examinations and positions that we may take with respect to appropriate valuations for acquisitions and divestitures and other transaction terms and conditions may hinder our ability to successfully complete business transactions to achieve our strategic goals.  Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from acquisitions will depend, in part, on successfully integrating each business with our company as well as improving operating performance and profitability through our management efforts and capital investments.  The risks to a successful integration and improvement of operating performance and profitability include, among others, failure to implement our business plan, unanticipated issues in integrating operations with ours, unanticipated changes in laws and regulations, labor unrest resulting from union operations, regulatory, environmental and permitting issues, the effect on our internal controls and compliance with the regulatory requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and difficulties in fully identifying and evaluating potential liabilities, risks and operating issues.  The occurrence of any of these events may adversely affect our expected benefits of any acquisitions and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We have significant deferred tax assets in the United States that may not be realized.. Deferred tax assets are future tax deductions that result primarily from the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial statement and income tax purposes.  At December 31, 2017, we had $173 million of U.S. deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances, primarily related to our retirement plan obligations.  These future tax deductions may not be realized if tax rules change in the future, if forecasted U.S. operational results are not realized or if any other U.S. projected future taxable income is insufficient.  Consequently, not realizing our U.S. deferred tax assets may significantly and materially affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (\"Tax Reform Act\") was enacted into law. The Tax Reform Act reduced the federal tax rate for corporations from 35% to 21%, beginning January 1, 2018 and the Company recorded a provisional one-time non-cash charge in 2017 for the new rate and other legislative changes.  We expect the recently enacted U.S. tax reform to have an unfavorable impact related to the broadening of the Company's U.S. tax base that will more than offset the favorable impact of the new 21% rate.  We will continue to analyze the full impact of enacted legislation as additional guidance is provided which could result in a change to our estimated non-cash charge and future results of operations.. It is possible that we will incur restructuring charges in the future.. It is possible that we will take restructuring actions in one or more of our markets in the future to reduce expenses.  These actions could result in significant restructuring charges at these subsidiaries, including recognizing impairment charges to write down assets, and recording accruals for employee severance and the termination of operating leases.  These charges, if required, could significantly and materially affect results of operations and cash flows.. We have significant retirement obligations. Poor investment performance of retirement plan holdings and / or lower interest rates used to discount the obligations could unfavorably affect our liquidity and results of operations.. We have substantial pension and retiree medical obligations, a portion of which have been funded.  The amount of these obligations is significantly affected by factors that are not in our control, including interest rates used to determine the present value of future payment streams, investment returns, medical inflation rates, participation rates and changes in laws and regulations.  The funded status of the primary U.S. pension plan was approximately 88% as of December 31, 2017.  Based on actuarial assumptions at the end of 2017, we do not expect to make any future contributions.  A change in assumptions could result in funding obligations that could adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to use our resources to make acquisitions and to otherwise grow our business.. 9. We have $745 million of actuarial losses recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at the end of 2017.  These losses relate to changes in actuarial assumptions that have increased the net liability for benefit plans.  These losses have not been recognized in earnings.  These losses will be recognized in earnings in future periods to the extent they are not offset by future actuarial gains.  Our projections of future cash requirements and expenses for these plans could be adversely affected if our retirement plans have additional actuarial losses.. Our earnings and cash flow could be materially affected by increased losses of customer valuables.. We purchase insurance coverage for losses of customer valuables for amounts in excess of what we consider prudent deductibles and/or retentions.  Insurance is provided by different groups of underwriters at negotiated rates and terms.  Coverage is available to us in major insurance markets, although premiums charged are subject to fluctuations depending on market conditions.  Our loss experience and that of other companies in our industry affects premium rates.  We are not insured for losses below our coverage limits and recognize expense up to these limits for actual losses.  Our insurance policies cover losses from most causes, with the exception of war, nuclear risk and various other exclusions typical for such policies.  The availability of high-quality and reliable insurance coverage is an important factor in obtaining and retaining customers and managing the risks of our business.  If our losses increase, or if we are unable to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. Currency restrictions in Venezuela limit our ability to use earnings and cash flows outside of Venezuela and may negatively affect ongoing operations in Venezuela.. Because most of our past requests to convert bolivars to dollars have not been approved and certain past processes to obtain dollars are no longer available, we do not expect to be able to repatriate cash from Venezuela for the foreseeable future.  Therefore, we do not expect to be able to use cash held in Venezuela for any purpose outside of that country, including reducing our U.S. debt, funding growth or business acquisitions or returning cash to shareholders.. We believe that currency exchange restrictions in Venezuela may disrupt the operation of our business in Venezuela because we may be unable to pay for goods and services that are required to be paid in dollars.  This could reduce our ability to provide services to our customers in Venezuela, or could increase the cost of delivering the services, which would negatively affect our earnings and cash flows, and could result in a loss of control, deconsolidation, shutdown or loss of the business in Venezuela.. We have risks associated with confidential information.. In the normal course of business, we collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential information, including information about individuals.  Despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of third-party service providers and business partners, could be vulnerable to security breaches (including cybersecurity breaches), acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming or human errors or other similar events.  Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, whether by us or by third-party service providers, could damage our reputation, expose us to the risks of litigation and liability, disrupt our business or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Negative publicity to our name or brand could lead to a loss of revenues or profitability.. We are in the security business and our success and longevity are based to a large extent on our reputation for trust and integrity.  Our reputation or brand, particularly the trust placed in us by our customers, could be negatively impacted in the event of perceived or actual breaches in our ability to conduct our business ethically, securely and responsibly.  In addition, we have licensing arrangements that permit certain entities to use Brink's name and/or other intellectual property in connection with their businesses. If any of these entities experienced an actual or perceived breach in its ability to conduct its business ethically, securely or responsibly, it could have a negative effect on our name and/or brand.  Any damage to our brand could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Failures of our IT system could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are heavily dependent on our information technology (\"IT\") infrastructure.  Significant problems with our infrastructure, such as telephone or IT system failure, cybersecurity breaches, or failure to develop new technology platforms to support new initiatives and product and service offerings, could halt or delay our ability to service our customers, hinder our ability to conduct and expand our business and require significant remediation costs.  In addition, we continue to evaluate and implement upgrades to our IT systems.  We are aware of inherent risks associated with replacing these systems, including accurately capturing data and system disruptions, and believe we are taking appropriate action to mitigate these risks through testing, training, and staging implementation.  However, there can be no assurances that we will successfully launch these systems as planned or that they will occur without disruptions to our operations. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We operate in regulated industries.. Our U.S. operations are subject to regulation by the U.S. Department of Transportation with respect to safety of operations and equipment and financial responsibility.  Intrastate operations in the U.S. are subject to regulation by state regulatory authorities and interprovincial. 10. operations in Canada are subject to regulation by Canadian and provincial regulatory authorities.  Our other international operations are regulated to varying degrees by the countries in which we operate.  Many countries have permit requirements for security services and prohibit foreign companies from providing different types of security services.. Changes in laws or regulations could require a change in the way we operate, which could increase costs or otherwise disrupt operations.  In addition, failure to comply with any applicable laws or regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating permits and licenses.  If laws and regulations were to change or we failed to comply, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. Our inability to access capital or significant increases in our cost of capital could adversely affect our business.. Our ability to obtain adequate and cost-effective financing depends on our credit quality as well as the liquidity of financial markets.  A negative change in our ratings outlook or any downgrade in our credit ratings by the rating agencies could adversely affect our cost and/or access to sources of liquidity and capital. Additionally, such a downgrade could increase the costs of borrowing under available credit lines.  Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our ability to access short-term and long-term capital.  Our access to funds under current credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the participating banks to meet their funding commitments.  Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity.  Longer disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives, or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to capital needed for our business.. We are subject to covenants for our credit facilities and our unsecured notes.. Our senior secured credit facility, the senior notes, the unsecured multi-currency bank credit facility and our letter of credit facilities contain various financial and other covenants.  The financial covenants include a limit on the ratio of net debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and a limit on the ratio of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to interest expense.  Other covenants, among other things, limit our ability to provide liens, restrict fundamental changes, limit transactions with affiliates and unrestricted subsidiaries, restrict changes to our fiscal year and to organization documents, limit asset dispositions, limit the use of proceeds from asset sales, limit sale and leaseback transactions, limit investments, limit the ability to incur debt, restrict certain payments to shareholders, limit negative pledges and limit the ability to change the nature of our business.  Although we believe none of these covenants are presently restrictive to operations, the ability to meet financial and other covenants can be affected by changes in our results of operations or financial condition.  We cannot provide assurance that we will meet these covenants.  A breach of these covenants could result in a default under existing credit facilities.  Upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our credit facilities, the lenders could cause amounts outstanding to be immediately payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit.  The occurrence of these events would have a significant effect on our liquidity and cash flows.. Our effective income tax rate could change.. We operate subsidiaries in 41 countries, all of which have different income tax laws and associated income tax rates.  Our effective income tax rate can be significantly affected by changes in the mix of pretax earnings by country and the related income tax rates in those countries.  In addition, our effective income tax rate is significantly affected by the ability to realize deferred tax assets, including those associated with net operating losses.  Changes in income tax laws, income apportionment, or estimates of the ability to realize deferred tax assets, could significantly affect our effective income tax rate, financial position and results of operations.  We are subject to the regular examination of our income tax returns by various tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these examinations will not have a material adverse effect on our business.. We have certain environmental and other exposures related to our former coal operations.. We may incur future environmental and other liabilities in connection with our former coal operations, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We may be exposed to certain regulatory and financial risks related to climate change.. Growing concerns about climate change may result in the imposition of additional environmental regulations to which we are subject.  Some form of federal regulation may be forthcoming with respect to greenhouse gas emissions (including carbon dioxide) and/or \"cap and trade\" legislation.  The outcome of this legislation may result in new regulation, additional charges to fund energy efficiency activities or other regulatory actions.  Compliance with these actions could result in the creation of additional costs to us, including, among other things, increased fuel prices or additional taxes or emission allowances.  We may not be able to recover the cost of compliance with new or more stringent environmental laws and regulations from our customers, which could adversely affect our business.  Furthermore, the potential effects of climate change and related regulation on our customers are highly uncertain and may adversely affect our operations.. The Company could be negatively affected as a result of the actions of activist or hostile stockholders.. Shareholder activism, which could take many forms and arise in a variety of situations, has been increasing among publicly traded companies. Shareholder activism, including potential proxy contests, requires significant time and attention by management and the Board of Directors,. 11. potentially hindering the Company's ability to execute its strategic plan and negatively affecting the trading value of our common stock. Additionally, shareholder activism could give rise to perceived uncertainties as to the Company's future direction, adversely affect its relationships with key executives, customers and other business partners, or make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel. Also, the Company has been, and may in the future be, required to incur significant legal fees and other expenses related to activist shareholder matters. Any of these impacts could materially and adversely affect the Company and operating results.. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, adversely affect our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations in a timely and accurate manner, investor confidence in our company, and the value of our common stock.. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to document and test our internal control procedures and to provide a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management's assessment of the effectiveness of such control. The Company had material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting identified during 2017 and can give no assurances that materials weaknesses will not arise in the future.  Although we are working to remedy the material weaknesses identified in 2017, there can be no assurance as to when the remediation plan will be fully developed or implemented. Deficiencies, including any material weakness, in our internal control over financial reporting that have not been remediated or that may occur in the future could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our financial statements, a decline in our stock price, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity.. 12. Forward-Looking Statements. This document contains both historical and forward-looking information. Words such as \"anticipates,\" \"assumes,\" \"estimates,\" \"expects,\" \"projects,\" \"predicts,\" \"intends,\" \"plans,\" \"potential,\" \"believes,\" \"may,\" \"should\" and similar expressions may identify forward-looking information. Forward-looking information in this document includes, but is not limited to, statements regarding future performance of The Brink's Company and its global operations, including: anticipated savings from reorganization and restructuring activities; the impact of U.S. tax reform and future tax liability ; the repatriation of cash from operations outside the U.S.; restrictions on foreign currency conversion, the anticipated financial effect of pending litigation; the ability to meet liquidity needs; expenses and payouts for the U.S. retirement plans and the non-U.S. pension and benefit plans and the expected long-term rate of return and funded status of the primary U.S. pension plan; compensation cost related to certain equity awards; expected liability for and future contributions to the UMWA plans, liability for black lung obligations; the projected impact of future excise tax on the UMWA plans; use of proceeds from financing activity; our ability to obtain U.S. dollars to operate our business in Venezuela and ; expected future payments under contractual obligations, and the impact of recent accounting pronouncements. Forward-looking information in this document is subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and contingencies, which are difficult to quantify and which could cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those that are anticipated.. These risks, uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control, include, but are not limited to:. • our ability to improve profitability and execute further cost and operational improvement and efficiencies in our core businesses;. • our ability to improve service levels and quality in our core businesses;. • market volatility and commodity price fluctuations;. • seasonality, pricing and other competitive industry factors;. • investment in information technology and its impact on revenue and profit growth;. • our ability to maintain an effective IT infrastructure and safeguard confidential information;. • our ability to effectively develop and implement solutions for our customers;. • risks associated with operating in foreign countries, including changing political, labor and economic conditions, regulatory issues, currency restrictions and devaluations, restrictions on and cost of repatriating earnings and capital, impact on the Company's financial results as a result of jurisdictions determined to be highly inflationary, and restrictive government actions, including nationalization;. • labor issues, including negotiations with organized labor and work stoppages;. • the strength of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies and foreign currency exchange rates;. • our ability to identify, evaluate and complete acquisitions and other strategic transactions, and to successfully integrate acquired companies;. • costs related to dispositions and market exits;. • our ability to obtain appropriate insurance coverage, positions taken by insurers relative to claims and the financial condition of insurers;. • safety and security performance and loss experience;. • employee, environmental and other liabilities in connection with former coal operations, including black lung claims;. • the impact of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act on legacy liabilities and ongoing operations;. • funding requirements, accounting treatment, and investment performance of our pension plans, the VEBA and other employee benefits;. • changes to estimated liabilities and assets in actuarial assumptions;. • the nature of hedging relationships and counterparty risk;. • access to the capital and credit markets;. • our ability to realize deferred tax assets;. • the outcome of pending and future claims, litigation, and administrative proceedings;. • public perception of our business, reputation and brand;. • changes in estimates and assumptions underlying critical accounting policies;. • the promulgation and adoption of new accounting standards, new government regulations and interpretation of existing standards and regulations.. The information included in this document is representative only as of the date of this document, and The Brink's Company undertakes no obligation to update any information contained in this document.. 13"
