[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS.. Any of the factors described below could significantly and negatively affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results, or credit ratings, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or risks that we currently consider immaterial, could also impair our operations or financial condition.. The public announcement of data from our clinical studies, or those of our competitors, or news of any developments related to our, or our competitors', IO products or late-stage compounds may cause significant volatility in our stock price and depending on the data, may result in an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operation. If the development of any of our key IO compounds, whether alone or as part of a combination therapy, is delayed or discontinued or a clinical study does not meet one or more of its primary endpoints, our stock price could decline significantly and there may be an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We are focusing our efforts and resources in disease areas of high unmet need. With our more focused portfolio, investors are placing heightened scrutiny on some of our products or late-stage compounds. In particular, Opdivo is the backbone of our IO portfolio. During 2017, we announced multiple regulatory milestones for Opdivo, including the early stoppage of certain clinical studies for meeting their endpoints and label expansions for new indications. We have, however, also experienced setbacks and may continue to do so as there are further developments in our clinical studies. In 2018, we expect to receive further data from ongoing clinical studies including CheckMate-227, a combination study in the first-line lung cancer setting and decisions from health authorities regarding potential label expansions.. The announcement of data from our clinical studies, or those of our competitors, or news of any developments related to our, or our competitors', IO products or late-stage compounds, such as Opdivo, may cause significant volatility in our stock price and depending on the news, may result in an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operation. Furthermore, the announcement of any negative or unexpected data or the discontinuation of development of any of our key IO compounds, whether alone or as part of a combination therapy, any delay in our anticipated timelines for filing for regulatory approval or a significant advancement of a competitor, may cause our stock price to decline significantly and may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. There is no assurance that data from our clinical studies will support filings for regulatory approval, or that our key IO compounds may prove to be effective or as effective as other competing compounds, or even if approved, that any of our key IO compounds will become commercially successful for all approved indications.. We depend on several key products for most of our revenues, cash flows and earnings.. We derive a majority of our revenue and earnings from several key products. Our six prioritized brands comprised approximately 75% of revenues in 2017. Growth products such as Opdivo and Eliquis represented, and are expected to increasingly represent, a significant part of our revenue, earnings and cash flows. A reduction in revenue from any of these products could adversely impact our earnings and cash flows. Also, if one of our major products were to become subject to issues such as loss of patent protection, significant changes in demand, formulary access changes, material product liability, unexpected side effects, regulatory proceedings, negative publicity or a significant advancement of competing products, we may incur an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operation or trading price of our stock.. We may experience difficulties or delays in the development and commercialization of new products.. Compounds or products may appear promising in development but fail to reach market within the expected or optimal timeframe, or at all. In addition, product extensions or additional indications may not be approved. Furthermore, products or indications approved under the U.S. FDA's Accelerated Approval Program may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in confirmatory studies and such studies may not be successful. For example, when we announced we would not pursue an accelerated regulatory pathway for the combination of Opdivo+Yervoy in lung cancer and when we reported negative results from CheckMate-026, we experienced negative impacts on our stock price in 2016. Developing and commercializing new compounds and products include inherent risks and uncertainties, including (i) due to efficacy and safety concerns, delayed or denied regulatory approvals, delays or challenges with producing products on a commercial scale or excessive costs to manufacture them; (ii) failure to enter into or implement optimal alliances for the development and/or commercialization of new products; (iii) failure to maintain a consistent scope and variety of promising late-stage products; (iv) failure of one or more of our products to achieve or maintain commercial viability; and (v) changes in regulatory approval processes may cause delays or denials of new product approvals.. Regulatory approval delays are especially common when a product is expected to have a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, as required by the FDA to address significant risk/benefit issues. The inability to bring a product to market or a significant delay in the expected approval and related launch date of a new product could negatively impact our revenues and earnings. In addition, if certain acquired pipeline programs are canceled or we believe their commercial prospects have been reduced, we may recognize material non-cash impairment charges for those programs. Finally, losing key molecules and intermediaries or our compound library through a natural or man-made disaster or act of sabotage could negatively impact the product development cycle.. 19. We face intense competition from other manufacturers, including for both innovative medicines and lower-priced generic products.. BMS is dependent on the market access, uptake and expansion for marketed brands, new product introductions, new indications, product extensions and co-promotional activities with alliance partners, to deliver future growth. Competition is keen and includes (i) lower-priced generics and increasingly aggressive generic commercialization tactics, (ii) new competitive products entering the market, particularly in IO, (iii) lower prices for other companies' products, real or perceived superior efficacy (benefit) or safety (risk) profiles or other differentiating factors, (iv) technological advances and patents attained by our competitors, (v) clinical study results from our products or a competitor's products that affect the value proposition for our products, (vi) business combinations among our competitors and major third-party payers and (vii) competing interests for external partnerships to develop and bring new products to markets. If we are unable to compete successfully against our competitors' products in the marketplace, this could have a material negative impact on our revenues and earnings.. Litigation claiming infringement of intellectual property may adversely affect our future revenues and operating earnings.. Third parties may claim that we infringe upon their intellectual property. Resolving an intellectual property infringement claim can be costly and time consuming and may require us to enter into license agreements, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement could subject us to significant damages or an injunction preventing the manufacture, sale, or use of the affected product or products. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition.. Adverse outcomes in other legal matters could negatively affect our business.. Current or future lawsuits, claims, proceedings and government investigations could preclude or delay the commercialization of our products or could adversely affect our operations, profitability, liquidity or financial condition, after any possible insurance recoveries, where available. Such legal matters include (i) intellectual property disputes; (ii) adverse decisions in litigation, including product liability and commercial cases; (iii) anti-bribery regulations, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practice Act or UK Bribery Act, including compliance with ongoing reporting obligations to the government resulting from any settlements, (iv) recalls or withdrawals of pharmaceutical products or forced closings of manufacturing plants; (v) the failure to fulfill obligations under supply contracts with the government and other customers; (vi) product pricing and promotional matters; (vii) lawsuits and claims asserting, or investigations into, violations of securities, antitrust, Federal and state pricing, consumer protection, data privacy and other laws; (viii) environmental, health, safety and sustainability matters; and (ix) tax liabilities resulting from assessments from tax authorities.. We could lose market exclusivity of a product earlier than expected.. In the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, the majority of an innovative product's commercial value is realized during its market exclusivity period. In the U.S. and in some other countries, when market exclusivity expires and generic versions are approved and marketed or when biosimilars are introduced (even if only for a competing product), there are usually very substantial and rapid declines in a product's revenues.. Market exclusivity for our products is based upon patent rights and certain regulatory forms of exclusivity. The scope of our patent rights varies from country to country and may also be dependent on the availability of meaningful legal remedies in a country. The failure to obtain patent and other intellectual property rights, or limitations on the use or loss of such rights, could be material to us. In some countries, including certain EU member states, basic patent protections for our products may not exist because certain countries did not historically offer the right to obtain specific types of patents and/or we (or our licensors) did not file in those countries. In addition, the patent environment can be unpredictable and the validity and enforceability of patents cannot be predicted with certainty. Absent relevant patent protection for a product, once the data exclusivity period expires, generic versions can be approved and marketed.. Generic and biosimilar product manufacturers as well as other groups seeking financial gain are also increasingly seeking to challenge patents before they expire, and we could face earlier-than-expected competition for any products at any time. Patents covering our key products have been, and are likely to continue to be, subject to patent litigation. For example, in February 2017 one of the EU patents for Sprycel was revoked by the Opposition Division of the EPO. We may experience a decline in European revenues upon the entry of generics into the market. Refer to \"Item 8. Financial Statements - Note 18. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies\" for further information. In some cases, manufacturers may seek regulatory approval by submitting their own clinical study data to obtain marketing approval or choose to launch a generic product \"at risk\" before the expiration of the applicable patent(s) and/or before the final resolution of related patent litigation. There is no assurance that a particular product will enjoy market exclusivity for the full time period that appears in the estimates disclosed in this Form 10-K or that we assume when we provide our financial guidance. In addition, some countries, such as India, are allowing competitors to manufacture and sell competing generic products, which negatively impacts the protections afforded the Company. Lower-priced biosimilars for BMS biologic products or competing biologics could negatively impact our volumes and prices.. 20. Increased pricing pressure and other restrictions in the U.S. and abroad from MCOs, institutional purchasers, and government agencies and programs, among others, could negatively affect our revenues and profit margins.. Our products continue to be subject to increasing pressures across the portfolio from market access, pricing and discounting and other restrictions in the U.S., the EU and other regions around the world, including from (i) rules and practices of MCOs and institutional and governmental purchasers; (ii) judicial decisions and changes in laws and regulations for federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, and other government actions and inquiries at both the federal and state level such as laws that have recently been enacted in California, Vermont, Nevada and New York that are focused on drug pricing transparency and/or limiting state spending on drugs; (iii) the potential impact of changes to pharmaceutical reimbursement, and increased pricing pressure from Medicare Part D formularies, Medicare Part B reimbursement rates to physicians as well as commercial formularies in general; (iv) reimbursement delays; (v) government price erosion mechanisms across Europe and in other countries, resulting in deflation for pharmaceutical product pricing; (vi) collection delays or failures to pay in government-funded public hospitals outside the U.S. (vii) the impact on pricing from parallel trade across borders; (viii) other developments in technology and/or industry practices that could impact the reimbursement policies and practices of third-party payers; and (ix) inhibited market access due to real or perceived differences in value propositions for our products compared to competing products.. We are subject to a variety of U.S. and international laws and regulations.. We are currently subject to a number of government laws and regulations and in the future, could become subject to new government laws and regulations. The costs of compliance with such laws and regulations, or the negative results of non-compliance, could adversely affect our business, our operating results and the financial condition of our Company; these include (i) additional healthcare reform initiatives in the U.S. or in other countries, including additional mandatory discounts or fees; (ii) new laws, regulations and judicial or other governmental decisions affecting pricing, drug reimbursement, receivable payments, and access or marketing within or across jurisdictions; (iii) changes in intellectual property law; (iv) changes in accounting standards; (v) new and increasing data privacy regulations and enforcement, particularly in the European Union and the U.S.; (vi) emerging and new global regulatory requirements for reporting payments and other value transfers to healthcare professionals; and (vii) the potential impact of importation restrictions, legislative and/or other regulatory changes.. Changes to tax regulations could negatively impact our earnings.. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and various other countries globally. In particular, although the passage of the Tax Cut and Jobs Act of 2017 reduced the U.S. tax rate to 21%, our future earnings could be negatively impacted by changes in tax legislation including changing tax rates and tax base such as limiting, phasing-out or eliminating deductions or tax credits, taxing certain excess income from intellectual property, changing rules for earnings repatriations and changing other tax laws in the U.S. or other countries.  In addition, the one-time deemed repatriation tax of approximately $2.6 billion will be payable over the next eight years.. Third-party royalties represent a significant percentage of our pretax income and operating cash flow.. We have entered into several arrangements which entitle us to potential royalties from third parties for out-licensed intellectual property, commercialization rights and sales-based contingent proceeds related to the divestiture of businesses. In many of these arrangements we have minimal, if any, continuing involvement that contribute to the financial success of those activities. Royalties have continued to represent a significant percentage of our pretax income, including royalties related to the divestiture of our Erbitux* and diabetes businesses (including the transfer of certain future royalty rights pertaining to Amylin, Onglyza* and Farxiga* product sales), our Sanofi alliance, out-licensed intellectual property and the Merck patent infringement settlement. Pretax income generated from royalties were approximately $1.2 billion in 2017 and is expected to increase in 2018. Our pretax income could be adversely affected if the royalty streams decline in future periods.. 21. The failure of third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory, and other obligations could adversely affect our business.. We rely on suppliers, vendors, outsourcing partners, alliance partners and other third parties to research, develop, manufacture, commercialize, co-promote and sell our products, manage certain marketing, selling, human resource, finance, IT and other business unit and functional services, and meet their contractual, regulatory and other obligations. Using these third parties poses a number of risks, such as: (i) they may not perform to our standards or legal requirements, for example, in relation to the outsourcing of significant clinical development activities for innovative medicines to some contract research organizations; (ii) they may not produce reliable results; (iii) they may not perform in a timely manner; (iv) they may not maintain confidentiality of our proprietary information; (v) they may incur a significant cyberattack or business disruption; (vi) disputes may arise with respect to ownership of rights to technology developed with our partners; and (vii) disagreements could cause delays in, or termination of, the research, development or commercialization of the product or result in litigation or arbitration. Moreover, some third parties are located in markets subject to political and social risk, corruption, infrastructure problems and natural disasters, in addition to country specific privacy and data security risk given current legal and regulatory environments. The failure of any critical third party to meet its obligations, including for future royalty and milestone payments; adequately deploy business continuity plans in the event of a crisis; and/or satisfactorily resolve significant disagreements with us or address other factors, could have a material adverse impact on our operations and results. In addition, if these third parties violate, or are alleged to have violated, any laws or regulations, including the local pharmaceutical code, U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practice Act, UK Bribery Act and other similar laws and regulations, during the performance of their obligations for us, it is possible that we could suffer financial and reputational harm or other negative outcomes, including possible legal consequences.. Failure to execute our business strategy could adversely impact our growth and profitability.. Our strategy is focused on delivering innovative, transformational medicines to patients. If we are unable to successfully execute on this strategy, this could negatively impact our future results of operations and market capitalization. In connection with this strategy, we are in the process of evolving our operating model to focus on investment in commercial opportunities against key brands and markets, accelerate the pipeline, streamline operations and realign manufacturing capabilities that broaden biologics capabilities, among other things. Our ability to successfully execute our operating model evolution could impact our results. If we are not able to achieve the cost savings we expect, this could negatively impact our operating margin and earnings results. In addition, we may be unable to consistently maintain an adequate pipeline, through internal R&D programs or transactions with third parties, to support future revenue growth. Competition among pharmaceutical companies for acquisition and product licensing opportunities is intense, and we may not be able to locate suitable acquisition targets or licensing partners at reasonable prices, or successfully execute such transactions. If we are unable to support and grow our marketed products, successfully execute the launches of newly approved products, advance our late-stage pipeline, manage change from our operating model evolution and manage our costs effectively, our operating results and financial condition could be negatively impacted.. Failure to attract and retain highly qualified personnel could affect our ability to successfully develop and commercialize products.. Our success is largely dependent on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, technical and management personnel, as well as personnel with expertise in clinical R&D, governmental regulation and commercialization. Competition for qualified personnel in the biopharmaceutical field is intense. We cannot be sure that we will be able to attract and retain quality personnel or that the costs of doing so will not materially increase.. Any businesses or assets we acquire in the future may underperform, and we may not be able to successfully integrate them into our existing business.. An essential component of our strategy has been business development activities seeking to source innovation externally to supplement our own discovery and development efforts.  As such, we have acquired, or in-licensed, a number of assets and we expect to continue to support our pipeline with compounds or products obtained through licensing and acquisitions. Future revenues, profits and cash flows of an acquired company's products, technologies and pipeline candidates, may not materialize due to low product uptake, delayed or missed pipeline opportunities, the inability to capture expected synergies, increased competition, safety concerns, regulatory issues, supply chain problems or other factors beyond our control. For example we discontinued the development of FS102 which was in Phase I development for the treatment of breast and gastric cancer, and consequently did not exercise our option to purchase F-Star Alpha. As a result, we recorded an IPRD charge of $75 million. Substantial difficulties, costs and delays could result from integrating our acquisitions, including for (i) R&D, manufacturing, distribution, sales, marketing, promotion and information technology activities; (ii) policies, procedures, processes, controls and compliance; and (iii) tax considerations.. 22. We could experience difficulties and delays in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of our products.. Our product supply and related patient access could be negatively impacted by, among other things: (i) product seizures or recalls or forced closings of manufacturing plants; (ii) our failure, or the failure of any of our suppliers, to comply with cGMP and other applicable regulations or quality assurance guidelines that could lead to manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages or delays in product manufacturing; (iii) manufacturing, quality assurance/quality control, supply problems or governmental approval delays; (iv) the failure of a sole source or single source supplier to provide us with the necessary raw materials, supplies or finished goods within a reasonable timeframe and with required quality; (v) the failure of a third-party manufacturer to supply us with bulk active or finished product on time; (vi) construction or regulatory approval delays for new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, including those intended to support future demand for our biologics products, such as Opdivo; (vii) the failure to meet new and emerging regulations requiring products to be tracked throughout the distribution channels using unique identifiers to verify their authenticity in the supply chain; (viii) other manufacturing or distribution issues, including limits to manufacturing capacity and changes in the types of products produced, such as biologics, physical limitations or other business interruptions; and (ix) disruption in supply chain continuity including from natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism or other external factors over which we have no control impacting one or more of our facilities or at a critical supplier. For example, our new biologics manufacturing facility in Cruiserath, Ireland is expected to be operational in 2019. A delay in the planned opening of the site could impact the supply of our products or require us to obtain product supply from third parties at a significant cost.. Our manufacturing and commercial operations in Puerto Rico were impacted by the recent hurricanes. Our two manufacturing sites sustained some damage but are currently operating at reduced capacity. We continue to work to restore to normal operations. Disruption in our ability to operate our Puerto Rico manufacturing facilities (whether due to problems with the facility itself, the infrastructure and services available on the island, the unavailability of raw materials or supplies from vendors, the unavailability of key staff or otherwise) could materially and adversely affect our ability to supply our products and affect our product sales.. Product labeling changes for our marketed products could result in a negative impact on revenues and profit margins.. We or regulatory authorities may need to change the labeling for any pharmaceutical product, including after a product has been marketed for several years. These changes are often the result of additional data from post-marketing studies, head-to-head studies, adverse events reports, studies that identify biomarkers (objective characteristics that can indicate a particular response to a product or therapy) or other studies or post-marketing experience that produce important additional information about a product. New information added to a product's label can affect its risk-benefit profile, leading to potential recalls, withdrawals or declining revenue, as well as product liability claims. Sometimes additional information from these studies identifies a portion of the patient population that may be non-responsive to a medicine or would be at higher risk of adverse reactions and labeling changes based on such studies may limit the patient population. The studies providing such additional information may be sponsored by us, but they could also be sponsored by competitors, insurance companies, government institutions, managed care organizations, scientists, investigators, or other interested parties. While additional safety and efficacy information from such studies assist us and healthcare providers in identifying the best patient population for each product, it can also negatively impact our revenues due to inventory returns and a more limited patient population going forward. Additionally, certain study results, especially from head-to-head studies, could affect a product's formulary listing, which could also adversely affect revenues.. The illegal distribution and sale by third parties of counterfeit or unregistered versions of our products or stolen products could have a negative impact on our revenues, earnings, reputation and business.. Third parties may illegally distribute and sell counterfeit versions of our products, which do not meet our rigorous manufacturing and testing standards. A patient who receives a counterfeit drug may be at risk for a number of dangerous health consequences. Our reputation and business could suffer harm as a result of counterfeit drugs sold under our brand name. Thefts of inventory at warehouses, plants or while in-transit, which are then not properly stored and are later sold through unauthorized channels, could adversely impact patient safety, our reputation and our business. In addition, diversion of products from their authorized market into other channels may result in reduced revenues and negatively affect our profitability.. 23. We are dependent on information technology and our systems and infrastructure face certain risks, including from cybersecurity breaches and data leakage.. We rely extensively on IT systems, networks and services, including internet sites, data hosting and processing facilities and tools, physical security systems and other hardware, software and technical applications and platforms, some of which are managed, hosted provided and/or used for third-parties or their vendors, to assist in conducting our business. A significant breakdown, invasion, corruption, destruction or interruption of critical information technology systems or infrastructure, by our workforce, others with authorized access to our systems or unauthorized persons could negatively impact operations. The ever-increasing use and evolution of technology, including cloud-based computing, creates opportunities for the unintentional dissemination or intentional destruction of confidential information stored in our, or our third-party providers', systems, portable media or storage devices. We could also experience a business interruption, theft of confidential information or reputational damage from industrial espionage attacks, malware or other cyber-attacks, which may compromise our system infrastructure or lead to data leakage, either internally or at our third-party providers. Although the aggregate impact on our operations and financial condition has not been material to date, we have been the target of events of this nature and expect them to continue as cybersecurity threats have been rapidly evolving in sophistication and becoming more prevalent in the industry. We have invested in industry appropriate protections and monitoring practices of our data and IT to reduce these risks and continue to monitor our systems on an ongoing basis for any current or potential threats. We maintain cyber insurance, however, this insurance may not be sufficient to cover the financial, legal, business or reputational losses that may result from an interruption or breach of our systems. There can be no assurance that our continuing efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches to our or our third-party providers' databases or systems that could adversely affect our business.. Adverse changes in U.S., global, regional, local economic and political conditions could adversely affect our profitability.. Global economic and political risks pose significant challenges to a company's growth and profitability and are difficult to mitigate. We generated approximately 45% of our revenues outside of the U.S. in 2017. As such, our revenues, earnings and cash flow are exposed to risk from a strengthening U.S. dollar. We have exposure to customer credit risks in Europe, South America and other markets including from government-guaranteed hospital receivables in markets where payments are not received on time. We have significant operations in Europe, including for manufacturing and distribution. The results of our operations could be negatively impacted by any member country exiting the eurozone monetary union or EU, including the planned exit of the UK from the EU. Of note, the exit of the UK from the EU may have an impact on our research, commercial and general business operations in the UK and the EU. In addition, future pension plan funding requirements continue to be sensitive to global economic conditions and the related impact on equity markets. Additionally, disruptions in the credit markets or a downgrade of our current credit rating could increase our future borrowing costs and impair our ability to access capital and credit markets on terms commercially acceptable to us, which could adversely affect our liquidity and capital resources or significantly increase our cost of capital. Finally, our business, operations may be adversely affected by political volatility, conflicts or crises in individual countries or regions, including terrorist activities or war.. There can be no guarantee that we will pay dividends or repurchase stock.. The declaration, amount and timing of any dividends fall within the discretion of our Board of Directors. The Board's decision will depend on many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, debt service obligations, industry practice, legal requirements, regulatory constraints and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. A reduction or elimination of our dividend payments or dividend program could adversely affect our stock price. In addition, we could, at any time, decide not to buy back any more shares in the market, which could also adversely affect our stock price.. Increased use of social media platforms present risks and challenges.. We are increasing our use of social media to communicate Company news and events. The inappropriate and/or unauthorized use of certain media vehicles could cause brand damage or information leakage or could lead to legal implications, including from the improper collection and/or dissemination of personally identifiable information from employees, patients, healthcare professionals or other stakeholders. In addition, negative or inaccurate posts or comments about us on any social networking website could damage our reputation, brand image and goodwill. Further, the disclosure of non-public Company-sensitive information by our workforce or others through external media channels could lead to information loss. Identifying new points of entry as social media continues to expand presents new challenges.. 24"
