[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Our financial and operating performance is subject to certain factors out of our control, including the state of the wind energy market in North America.. As a supplier of products to wind turbine manufacturers and owners and operators of wind energy generation facilities, our results of operations (like those of our customers) are subject to general economic conditions, and specifically to the state of the wind energy market. In addition to the state and federal government policies supporting renewable energy described above, the growth and development of the larger wind energy market in North America is subject to a number of factors, including, among other things:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe availability and cost of financing for the estimated pipeline of wind energy development projects;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe cost of electricity, which may be affected by a number of factors, including government regulation, power transmission, seasonality, fluctuations in demand, and the cost and availability of fuel and particularly natural gas;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe general demand for electricity or \"load growth\";.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe costs of competing power sources, including natural gas, nuclear power, solar power and other power sources;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe development of new power generating technology or advances in existing technology or discovery of power generating natural resources;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe development of electrical transmission infrastructure;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tstate and federal laws and regulations regarding avian protection plans and noise or turbine setback requirements;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tstate and federal laws and regulations, particularly those favoring low carbon energy generation alternatives;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadministrative and legal challenges to proposed wind energy development projects;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe improvement in efficiency and cost of wind energy, as influenced by advances in turbine design and operating efficiencies; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpublic perception and localized community responses to wind energy projects.. 8. Table of Contents. In addition, while some of the factors listed above may only affect individual wind energy project developments or portions of the market, in the aggregate they may have a significant effect on the successful development of the wind energy market as a whole, and thus affect our operating and financial results.. The U.S. wind energy industry is significantly impacted by tax and other economic incentives and political and governmental policies. A significant change in these incentives and policies could significantly impact our results of operations and growth.. We supply products to wind turbine manufacturers and owners and operators of wind energy generation facilities. The U.S. wind energy industry is significantly impacted by federal tax incentives and state Renewable Portfolio Standards (\"RPS's\"). Despite recent reductions in the cost of wind energy, due to variability in wind quality and consistency, and other regional differences, wind energy may not be economically viable in certain parts of the country absent such incentives. These programs have provided material incentives to develop wind energy generation facilities and thereby impact the demand for our products. The increased demand for our products that generally results from the credits and incentives could be impacted by the expiration or curtailment of these programs.. One such federal government program, the PTC, provides economic incentives to the owners of wind energy facilities in the form of a tax credit. The PTC has been extended several times since its initial introduction in 1992. The FY16 Omnibus Appropriations Bill, passed on December 18, 2015, included a five-year extension and phase-down of the PTC, as well as providing the option to elect the ITC for wind energy projects. As a result, the PTC has been extended at full value for projects commenced in 2015 and 2016, and will continue at 80% of full value for projects commenced in 2017, 60% for projects commended in 2018, and 40% for projects commenced in 2019. Similarly, for the ITC election, projects that started construction in 2015 and 2016 are eligible for a full 30% ITC, and projects that start construction in 2017, 2018 and 2019 are eligible for an ITC of 24%, 18% and 12%, respectively. As before, the rules allow wind energy projects to qualify so long as construction is started before the end of the respective period.. State RPSs generally require or encourage state - regulated electric utilities to supply a certain proportion of electricity from renewable energy sources or to devote a certain portion of their plant capacity to renewable energy generation. Typically, utilities comply with such standards by qualifying for renewable energy credits evidencing the share of electricity that was produced from renewable sources. Under many state standards, these renewable energy credits can be unbundled from their associated energy and traded in a market system, allowing generators with insufficient credits to meet their applicable state mandate. These standards have spurred significant growth in the wind energy industry and a corresponding increase in the demand for our products. Currently, the majority of states have RPS's in place and certain states have voluntary utility commitments to supply a specific percentage of their electricity from renewable sources. The enactment of RPS's in additional states or any changes to existing RPS's (including changes due to the failure to extend or renew the federal incentives described above), or the enactment of a federal RPS or imposition of other greenhouse gas regulations, may impact the demand for our products. We cannot assure that government support for renewable energy will continue. The elimination of, or reduction in, state or federal government policies that support renewable energy could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial performance and future development efforts.. We are substantially dependent on a few significant customers.. Historically, the majority of our revenues are highly concentrated with a limited number of customers. In 2017, one customer, SGRE, accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues, and our five largest customers accounted for 85% of our consolidated revenues. Certain of our customers periodically have expressed their intent to scale back, delay or restructure existing customer agreements, which has led to reduced revenues from these customers. It is possible that this may occur again in the future. As a result, our operating profits and gross margins have historically been negatively affected by significant variability in production levels, which has created production volume inefficiencies in our operations and cost structures.. Our customers may be significantly affected by disruptions and volatility in the economy and in the wind energy market.. Market disruptions and regular market volatility, including decreases in oil and commodity prices, may adversely impact our customers' ability to pay amounts due to us and could cause related increases in our working capital or borrowing needs. In addition, our customers have in the past attempted and may attempt in the future to renegotiate the terms of contracts or reduce the size of orders with us as a result of disruptions and volatility in the markets. We cannot predict with certainty the amount of our backlog that we will ultimately ship to our customers.. 9. Table of Contents. Market disruptions and regular market volatility may also result in an increased likelihood of our customers asserting warranty or remediation claims in connection with our products that they would not ordinarily assert in a more stable economic environment. In the event of such a claim, we may incur costs if we decide to compensate the affected customer or to engage in litigation with the affected customer regarding the claim. We maintain product liability insurance, but there can be no guarantee that such insurance will be available or adequate to protect against such claims. A successful claim against us could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Consolidation among wind turbine manufacturers could increase our customer concentration and/or disrupt our supply chain relationships.. Wind turbine manufacturers are among our primary customers. There has been consolidation among these manufacturers, and more consolidation may occur in the future. For example, both Siemens and Gamesa were customers for our tower business until their business combination in early 2017, at which time SGRE became our largest customer. Customer consolidation may result in pricing pressures, to which we are subject, leading to downward pressure on our margins and profits, and may also disrupt our supply chain relationships.. We may have difficulty maintaining our current financing arrangements or obtaining additional financing when needed or on acceptable terms, and there can be no assurance that our operations will generate cash flows in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness.. We rely on banks and capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by cash flows from operations or asset sales. We have experienced operating losses for most periods during which we have operated, and our committed sources of liquidity may be inadequate to satisfy our operational needs. There can be no assurances that even if we were to achieve in part any or all of our strategic objectives that we would be successful in improving profitability. If we are not able to access capital at competitive rates, the ability to implement our business plans may be adversely affected. In the absence of access to capital resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations at times when the prices for such assets or operations are depressed. In such event, we may not be able to consummate those dispositions. Furthermore, the proceeds of any such dispositions may not be adequate to meet our debt service obligations when due.. Additionally, our ability to comply with the restrictive covenants contained in our debt instruments, to make scheduled payments on our existing or future debt obligations, and to fund our operations will depend on our future financial and operating performance. There can be no assurances that our operations will generate sufficient cash flows to enable us to maintain compliance with the restrictive covenants contained in our debt instruments, pay our remaining indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result, among other things, our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable which could force us to liquidate certain assets or alter our business operations or debt obligations. Moreover, if we are unable to obtain additional capital or if our current sources of financing including customer advances, are reduced or unavailable, our overall operations could be materially and negatively impacted.  In addition, raising capital in the equity capital markets could result in limitations on our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards.. We face competition from industry participants who may have greater resources than we do.. Our businesses are subject to risks associated with competition from new or existing industry participants who may have more resources and better access to capital. Certain of our competitors and potential competitors may have substantially greater financial resources, customer support, technical and marketing resources, larger customer bases, longer operating histories, greater name recognition and more established relationships in the industry than we do. Among other things, these industry participants compete with us based upon price, quality, location and available capacity. We cannot be sure that we will have the resources or expertise to compete successfully in the future. We also cannot be sure that we will be able to match cost reductions by our competitors or that we will be able to succeed in the face of current or future competition.. We face significant risks associated with uncertainties resulting from changes to policies and laws with the current U.S. administration.. The change of administration in the U.S. federal government may affect our business in a manner that currently cannot be reliably predicted, especially given the potentially significant changes to various laws and regulations that affect us. These uncertainties may include changes in laws and policies in areas such as corporate taxation, taxation on imports of. 10. Table of Contents. internationally-sourced products, international trade including trade treaties such as the North American Free Trade Agreement, environmental protection and workplace safety laws, labor and employment law, immigration and health care, which individually or in the aggregate could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Additionally, if our relationships with significant customers should change materially, it could be difficult for us to immediately and profitably replace lost sales in a market with such concentration, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating and financial results. We could be adversely impacted by decreased customer demand for our products due to (i) the impact of current or future economic conditions on our customers, (ii) our customers' loss of market share to their competitors that do not use our products, and (iii) our loss of market share with our customers. We could lose market share with our customers to our competitors or to our customers themselves, should they decide to become more vertically integrated and produce the products that we currently provide.. In addition, even if our customers continue to do business with us, we could be adversely affected by a number of other potential developments with our customers. For example:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe inability or failure of our customers to meet their contractual obligations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tCertain customer contracts provide the customer with the opportunity to cancel a substantial portion of its volume obligation by providing us with notice of such election prior to commencement of production. Such contracts generally require the customer to pay a sliding cancelation fee based on how far in advance of commencement of production such notice is provided..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tIf we are unable to deliver products to our customers in accordance with an agreed upon schedule we may become subject to liquidated damages provisions in certain supply agreements for the period of time we are unable to deliver finished products. Although the liquidated damages provisions are generally capped, they can become significant and may have a negative impact on our profit margins and financial results..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tA material change in payment terms with a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our short - term cash flows.. The existence of government subsidies available to our competitors in certain countries may affect our ability to compete on a price basis.. In 2013, the USITC determined that wind towers from China and Vietnam were being sold in the U.S. at less than fair value. As a result of that determination, the USDOC issued antidumping and countervailing duty orders on imports of wind towers from China and an antidumping duty order on imports of towers from Vietnam. Since that time, imports of wind towers from those countries have substantially ceased. Those orders expire in 2018, however, and there can be no assurance that they will be renewed or extended. Additionally, producers in other countries not subject to those orders may benefit from government subsidies (particularly with respect to the price of steel, the primary raw material used in the production of wind towers) which could lead to increased competition from those producers in the U.S. market, causing us to lose market share and/or reducing our margins. The possible introduction of U.S. tariffs on imported steel, if not applied to fabricated wind towers could adversely impact our cost structure and competitiveness relative to imported towers.. Our plans for growth and diversification may not be successful, and could result in poor financial performance.. We have made a strategic decision to diversify our business further into NGT power generation, O&G, mining and other industries, particularly within our gearing and Heavy Fabrications businesses and through our 2017 acquisition of Red Wolf. While we have historically participated in most of these lines of business, there is no assurance that we will be able to grow our presence in these markets at a rate sufficient to compensate for a potentially weaker wind energy market. Moreover, our participation in these markets may require additional investments in personnel, equipment and operational infrastructure. If we are unable to further penetrate these markets, our plans to diversify our operations may not be successful and our anticipated future growth may be adversely affected.. We may also grow our business through increased production levels at existing facilities and through acquisitions. Such growth will require coordinated efforts across the Company and continued enhancements to our current operating infrastructure, including management and operations personnel, systems, equipment and property. Moreover, if our efforts do not adequately predict the demand of our customers and our potential customers, our future earnings may be adversely affected.. 11. Table of Contents. If our projections regarding the future market demand for our products are inaccurate, our operating results and our overall business may be adversely affected.. We have previously made significant capital investments in anticipation of rapid growth in the U.S. wind energy market. However, the growth in the U.S. wind energy market has not kept pace with our expectations when some of these capital investments were made, and there can be no assurance that the U.S. wind energy market will grow and develop in a manner consistent with our expectations, or that we will be able to fill our capacity through the further diversification of our operations. Our internal manufacturing capabilities have required significant upfront fixed costs. If market demand for our products does not increase at the pace we have anticipated and align with our manufacturing capacity, we may be unable to offset these costs and achieve economies of scale, and our operating results may continue to be adversely affected by high fixed costs, reduced margins and underutilization of capacity. In light of these considerations, we may be forced to temporarily idle existing capacity or sell to third parties manufacturing capacity that we cannot utilize in the near term, in addition to the steps that we have already taken to adjust our capacity more closely to demand. Alternatively, if we experience rapid increased demand for our products in excess of our estimates, or we reduce our manufacturing capacity, our installed capital equipment and existing workforce may be insufficient to support higher production volumes, which could adversely affect our customer relationships and overall reputation. In addition, we may not be able to expand our workforce and operations in a timely manner, procure adequate resources or locate suitable third - party suppliers to respond effectively to changes in demand for our existing products or to the demand for new products requested by our customers, and our business could be adversely affected. Our ability to meet such excess customer demand could also depend on our ability to raise additional capital and effectively scale our manufacturing operations.. Our growth strategies could be ineffective due to the risks of acquisitions and risks relating to integration.. Our growth strategy has included acquiring complementary businesses, such as Red Wolf, as more fully described in Note 21, \"Business Combinations\" in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. In regards to Red Wolf, or any other future acquisitions, we could fail to identify, finance or complete suitable acquisitions on acceptable terms and prices. Acquisitions and the related integration processes could increase a number of risks, including diversion of operations personnel, financial personnel and management's attention, difficulties in integrating systems and operations, potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies and exposure to unanticipated liabilities. The price we pay for a business may exceed the value realized and we cannot provide any assurance that we will realize the expected synergies and benefits of any acquisition, including Red Wolf. Our discovery of, or failure to discover, material issues during due diligence investigations of acquisition targets, either before closing with regard to potential risks of the acquired operations, or after closing with regard to the timely discovery of breaches of representations or warranties, could materially harm our business. Our failure to meet the challenges involved in integrating a new business to realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition could cause an interruption or loss of momentum in our existing activities and could adversely affect our profitability. Acquisitions also may result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets which are subject to potential impairments in the future that could harm our financial position and operating results.. Our diversification outside of the wind energy market exposes us to business risks associated with the CNG, NGT, O&G and mining industries, among others, which may slow our growth or penetration in these markets.. Although we have experience in the CNG and NGT market through the Process Systems segment, and experience in O&G and mining markets through our gearing and heavy fabrications businesses, these markets have not historically been our primary focus. In further diversifying our business to serve these markets, we face competitors who may have more resources, longer operating histories and more well - established relationships than we do, and we may not be able to successfully or profitably generate additional business opportunities in these industries. Moreover, if we are able to successfully diversify into these markets, our businesses may be exposed to risks associated with these industries, which could adversely affect our future earnings and growth. These risks include, among other things:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe prices and relative demand for oil, gas, minerals and other commodities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdomestic and global political and economic conditions affecting the O&G and mining industries;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in CNG, NGT, O&G and mining technology;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe price and availability of alternative fuels and energy sources, as well as changes in energy consumption or supply; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfederal, state and local regulations, including, among others, regulations relating to hydraulic fracturing and greenhouse gas emissions.. 12. Table of Contents. We have substantially generated net losses since our inception.. Although our business was profitable in 2016, we have experienced operating losses for all of the other years we have been in operation. We have incurred significant costs in connection with the development of our businesses, and because we have operated at low capacity utilization in certain facilities, there is no assurance that we will generate sufficient revenues to offset anticipated operating costs. Although we anticipate deriving revenues from the sale of our products, no assurance can be given that these products can be sold on a profitable basis. We cannot give any assurance that we will be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future.. Current or future litigation and regulatory actions could have a material adverse impact on us.. From time to time, we are subject to litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings relating to our business. No assurance can be given that the results of these matters will be favorable to us. An adverse resolution of lawsuits, investigations or arbitrations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Defending ourselves in these matters may be time - consuming, expensive and disruptive to normal business operations and may result in significant expense and a diversion of management's time and attention from the operation of our business, which could impede our ability to achieve our business objectives. Additionally, any amount that we may be required to pay to satisfy a judgment or settlement may not be covered by insurance. Under our charter and the indemnification agreements that we have entered into with our officers, directors and certain third parties, we are required to indemnify and advance expenses to them in connection with their participation in certain proceedings. There can be no assurance that any of these payments will not be material.. We may need to hire additional qualified personnel, including management personnel, and the loss of our key personnel could adversely affect our business.. Our future success will depend largely on the skills, efforts and motivation of our executive officers and other key personnel. Our success also depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified management and other key personnel throughout our organization. We face competition in the attraction and retention of personnel who possess the skill sets we seek. In addition, key personnel may leave us and subsequently compete against us. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. We rely on unionized labor, the loss of which could adversely affect our future success.. We depend on the services of unionized labor and have collective bargaining agreements with certain of our operations workforce at our Cicero, Illinois and Neville Island, Pennsylvania Gearing facilities. The loss of the services of these and other personnel, whether through terminations, attrition, labor strike or otherwise, or a material change in our collective bargaining agreements, could have a material adverse impact on us and our future profitability. In November 2017, a three-year  collective bargaining agreement was ratified by the collective bargaining union in our Neville Island facility and is expected to remain in effect through October 2022. The collective bargaining agreement with the Cicero union expires in February 2018; the parties are currently negotiating a new collective bargaining agreement. As of December 31, 2017, these collective bargaining units represented approximately 24% of our workforce.. We could incur substantial costs to comply with environmental, health and safety (\"EHS\") laws and regulations and to address violations of or liabilities under these requirements.. Our operations are subject to a variety of EHS laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate and sell products governing, among other things, health, safety, pollution and protection of the environment and natural resources, including the use, handling, transportation and disposal of non - hazardous and hazardous materials and wastes, as well as emissions and discharges into the environment, including discharges to air, surface water, groundwater and soil, product content, performance and packaging. We cannot guarantee that we have been, or will at all times be in compliance with such laws and regulations. Changes in existing EHS laws and regulations, or their application, could cause us to incur additional or unexpected costs to achieve or maintain compliance. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations, obtain the necessary permits to operate our business, or comply with the terms and conditions of such permits may subject us to a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the imposition of civil and criminal sanctions, monetary fines and penalties, remedial obligations, and the issuance of compliance requirements limiting or preventing some or all of our operations. The assertion of claims relating to regulatory compliance, on or off - site contamination, natural resource damage, the discovery of previously unknown environmental liabilities, the imposition of criminal or civil fines or penalties and/or other sanctions, or the obligation to undertake investigation, remediation or monitoring activities. 13. Table of Contents. could result in potentially significant costs and expenditures to address contamination or resolve claims or liabilities. Such costs and expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Under certain circumstances, violation of such EHS laws and regulations could result in us being disqualified from eligibility to receive federal government contracts or subcontracts under the federal government's debarment and suspension system.. We also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and cleanup responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under certain of these laws and regulations, such liabilities can be imposed for cleanup of currently and formerly owned, leased or operated properties, or properties to which hazardous substances or wastes were sent by current or former operators at our current or former facilities, regardless of whether we directly caused the contamination or violated any law at the time of discharge or disposal. Several of our facilities have a history of industrial operations, and contaminants have been detected at some of our facilities. The presence of contamination from hazardous substances or wastes could interfere with ongoing operations or adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or use our properties as collateral for financing. We also could be held liable under third - party claims for property damage, natural resource damage or personal injury and for penalties and other damages under such environmental laws and regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our ability to comply with regulatory requirements is critical to our future success, and there can be no guarantee that our businesses are in full compliance with all such requirements.. As a manufacturer and distributor of wind and other energy industry products we are subject to the requirements of federal, state, local and foreign regulatory authorities. In addition, we are subject to a number of industry standard - setting authorities, such as the American Gear Manufacturers Association and the American Welding Society. Changes in the standards and requirements imposed by such authorities could have a material adverse effect on us. In the event we are unable to meet any such standards when adopted, our businesses could be adversely affected. We may not be able to obtain all regulatory approvals, licenses and permits that may be required in the future, or any necessary modifications to existing regulatory approvals, licenses and permits, or maintain all required regulatory approvals, licenses and permits. There can be no guarantee that our businesses are fully compliant with such standards and requirements.. We may be unable to keep pace with rapidly changing technology in wind turbine and other industrial component manufacturing.. The global market for wind turbines, as well as for our other manufactured industrial components, is rapidly evolving technologically. Our component manufacturing equipment and technology may not be suited for future generations of products being developed by wind turbine companies. For example, some wind turbine manufacturers are using wind turbine towers made partially or fully from concrete instead of steel. Other wind turbine designs have reduced the use of gearing or eliminated the gearbox entirely through the use of direct or compact drive technologies. To maintain a successful business in our field, we must keep pace with technological developments and the changing standards of our customers and potential customers and meet their constantly evolving demands. If we fail to adequately respond to the technological changes in our industry, or are not suited to provide components for new types of wind turbines, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected.. Disruptions in the supply of parts and raw materials, or changes in supplier relations, may negatively impact our operating results.. We are dependent upon the supply of certain raw materials used in our production process, and these raw materials are exposed to price fluctuations on the open market. Raw material costs for materials such as steel, our primary raw material, have fluctuated significantly and may continue to fluctuate. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, we have generally tried to match raw material purchases to our sales contracts or incorporated price adjustment clauses in our contracts. However, limitations on availability of raw materials or increases in the cost of raw materials (including steel), energy, transportation and other necessary services may impact our operating results if our manufacturing businesses are not able to fully pass on the costs associated with such increases to their respective customers. Alternatively, we will not realize material improvements from declines in steel prices as the terms of our contracts generally require that we pass these cost savings through to our customers. In addition, we may encounter supplier constraints, be unable to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relations or be affected by disruptions in the supply chain caused by events such as natural disasters, shipping delays, power outages and labor strikes. Additionally, our supply chain has become more global in nature and, thus, more complex from a shipping and logistics perspective. In the event of limitations on availability of raw. 14. Table of Contents. materials or significant changes in the cost of raw materials, particularly steel, our margins and profitability could be negatively impacted.. If our estimates for warranty expenses differ materially from actual claims made, or if we are unable to reasonably estimate future warranty expense for our products, our business and financial results could be adversely affected.. We provide warranty terms generally ranging between one and five years to our customers depending upon the specific product and terms of the customer agreement. We reserve for warranty claims based on prior experience and estimates made by management based upon a percentage of our sales revenues related to such products. From time to time, customers have submitted warranty claims to us. However, we have a limited history on which to base our warranty estimates for certain of our manufactured products. Our assumptions could materially differ from the actual performance of our products in the future and could exceed the levels against which we have reserved. In some instances our customers have interpreted the scope and coverage of certain of our warranty provisions differently from our interpretation of such provisions. The expenses associated with remediation activities in the wind energy industry can be substantial, and if we are required to pay such costs in connection with a customer's warranty claim, we could be subject to additional unplanned cash expenditures. If our estimates prove materially incorrect, or if we are required to cover remediation expenses in addition to our regular warranty coverage, we could be required to incur additional expenses and could face a material unplanned cash expenditure, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we are unable to produce, maintain and disseminate relevant and/or reliable data and information pertaining to our business in an efficient, cost-effective, secure and well-controlled fashion and avoid security breaches affecting our information technology systems, such inability may have significant negative impacts on our confidentiality obligations, and proprietary needs and therefore on our future operations, profitability and competitive position.. Management relies on information technology infrastructure and architecture, including hardware, network, software, people and processes, to provide useful and confidential information to conduct our business in the ordinary course, including correspondence and commercial data and information interchange with customers, suppliers, consultants, advisors and governmental agencies, and to support assessments and conclusions about future plans and initiatives pertaining to market demands, operating performance and competitive positioning. In addition, any material failure, interruption of service, compromised data security or cybersecurity threat could adversely affect our relations with suppliers and customers, place us in violation of confidentiality and data protection laws, rules and regulations, and result in negative impacts to our market share, operations and profitability. Security breaches in our information technology could result in theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of confidential data or intellectual property which could adversely impact our future results.. Future sales of our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock may depress our stock price.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur, may reduce the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities and may make it more difficult for our stockholders to sell their common stock at a time and price that they deem appropriate.. On August 11, 2017, we filed a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-219931), which was declared effective by the SEC on October 10, 2017, to register securities that we may choose to issue in the future (the \"Broadwind Form S-3\").  Under the registration statement, we have the option to offer and sell up to $50,000 in the aggregate of securities in one or more offerings.. Limitations on our ability to utilize our net operating losses (\"NOLs\") may negatively affect our financial results.. We may not be able to utilize all of our NOLs. For financial statement presentation, all benefits associated with the NOL carryforwards have been reserved; therefore, this potential asset is not reflected on our balance sheet. To the extent available, we will use any NOL carryforwards to reduce the U.S. corporate income tax liability associated with our operations. However, if we do not achieve profitability prior to their expiration, we will not be able to fully utilize our NOLs to offset income. Section 382 of the IRC (\"Section 382\") generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of NOL carryforwards that may be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone certain changes in stock ownership. Our ability to utilize NOL carryforwards and built - in losses may be limited, under Section 382 or otherwise, by our issuance of common stock or by other changes in ownership of our stock. After analyzing Section 382 in 2010 we determined that aggregate changes in our stock ownership had triggered an annual limitation of NOL carryforwards and built - in losses available for utilization to $14,284 per annum. Although this event limited the amount of pre - ownership. 15. Table of Contents. change date NOLs and built - in losses we can utilize annually, it does not preclude us from fully utilizing our current NOL carryforwards prior to their expiration. However, subsequent changes in our stock ownership could further limit our ability to use our NOL carryforwards and our income could be subject to taxation earlier than it would if we were able to use NOL carryforwards and built - in losses without an annual limitation, which could result in lower profits. To address these concerns, in February 2013 we adopted a Section 382 Stockholder Rights Plan, which was subsequently approved by our stockholders and extended in 2016 for an additional three-year period (as amended, the \"Rights Plan\"), designed to preserve our substantial tax assets associated with NOL carryforwards under Section 382. The Rights Plan is intended to deter any person or group from being or becoming the beneficial owner of 4.9% or more of our common stock and thereby triggering a further limitation of our available NOL carryforwards. See Note 14, \"Income Taxes\" of our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our Rights Plan. There can be no assurance that the Rights Plan will be effective in protecting our NOL carryforwards."                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
