[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Risks Related to Our Business. Due to the dependency of our revenues on private pay sources, events which adversely affect the ability of seniors to afford our resident fees or entrance fees (including downturns in the economy, housing market, consumer confidence or the equity markets and unemployment among resident family members) could cause our occupancy, revenues, results of operations and cash flow to decline.. 19. Costs to seniors associated with independent and assisted living services are not generally reimbursable under government reimbursement programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Only seniors with income or assets meeting or exceeding the comparable median in the regions where our communities are located typically can afford to pay our monthly resident fees. Economic downturns, softness in the housing market, higher levels of unemployment among resident family members, lower levels of consumer confidence, stock market volatility and/or changes in demographics could adversely affect the ability of seniors to afford our resident fees or entrance fees. If we are unable to retain and/or attract seniors with sufficient income, assets or other resources required to pay the fees associated with independent and assisted living services and other service offerings, our occupancy, revenues, results of operations and cash flow could decline.. Changes in the reimbursement rates or methods or timing of payment from government reimbursement programs, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, or the implementation of other measures to reduce reimbursement for our senior living and ancillary services could adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and cash flow.. We rely on reimbursement from government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, for a portion of our revenues, and we cannot provide assurance that reimbursement levels will not decrease in the future, which could adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and cash flow.  Reimbursements from Medicare and Medicaid represented 12.6% and 2.7%, respectively, of our total resident fee revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017.  During such period, Medicare reimbursements represented 86.3% of our Ancillary Services segment revenue, and Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements represented 23.1% of our CCRCs-Rental segment revenue.  See \"Item 1.  Business - Government Regulation\" for more information regarding these programs, including the impact of recent legislation on such programs.. Congress continues to discuss deficit and medical spending reduction measures, leading to a high degree of uncertainty regarding potential reforms to government reimbursement programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. These discussions, along with other recent reforms and continuing efforts to reform government reimbursement programs, both as part of the Affordable Care Act and otherwise, could result in major changes in the healthcare delivery and reimbursement systems on both the national and state levels.  Weak economic conditions also could adversely affect federal and state budgets, which could result in attempts to reduce or eliminate payments for federal and state reimbursement programs, including Medicare and Medicaid.. Though we cannot predict what reform proposals will be adopted or finally implemented, healthcare reform and regulations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flow through, among other things, decreasing funds available for our services or increasing our operating costs. Continuing efforts of government to contain healthcare costs could materially and adversely affect us, and reimbursement levels may not remain at levels comparable to present levels or may not be sufficient to cover the costs allocable to patients eligible for reimbursement.  During 2016, we significantly reduced the number of our outpatient therapy clinics located in our communities due, in part, to lower reimbursement rates making the business less attractive.. The impact of ongoing health care reform efforts on our business cannot accurately be predicted.. The health care industry in the United States is subject to fundamental changes due to ongoing health care reform efforts and related political, economic and regulatory influences. Notably, the Affordable Care Act resulted in expanded health care coverage to millions of previously uninsured people beginning in 2014 and has resulted in significant changes to the United States health care system. To help fund this expansion, the Affordable Care Act outlines certain reductions for Medicare reimbursed services, including skilled nursing, home health, hospice and outpatient therapy services, as well as certain other changes to Medicare payment methodologies. This comprehensive health care legislation has resulted and will continue to result in extensive rulemaking by regulatory authorities, and also may be altered, amended, repealed or replaced.  It is difficult to predict the full impact of the Affordable Care Act due to the complexity of the law and implementing regulations, as well our inability to foresee how CMS and other participants in the health care industry will respond to the choices available to them under the law.  We also cannot accurately predict whether any new or pending legislative proposals will be adopted or, if adopted, what effect, if any, these proposals would have on our business. Similarly, while we can anticipate that some of the rulemaking that will be promulgated by regulatory authorities will affect us and the manner in which we are reimbursed by the federal reimbursement programs, we cannot accurately predict today the impact of those regulations on our business. The provisions of the legislation and other regulations implementing the provisions of the Affordable Care Act or any amended or replacement legislation may increase our costs, decrease our revenues, expose us to expanded liability or require us to revise the ways in which we conduct our business.. In addition to its impact on the delivery and payment for health care, the Affordable Care Act and the implementing regulations have resulted and may continue to result in increases to our costs to provide health care benefits to our employees. We also may be required to make additional employee-related changes to our business as a result of provisions in the Affordable Care Act or. 20. any amended or replacement legislation impacting the provision of health insurance by employers, which could result in additional expense and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow.. Overbuilding and increased competition may adversely affect our occupancy, revenues, results of operations and cash flow.. The senior living industry is highly competitive. We compete with numerous other companies that provide long-term care alternatives such as home healthcare agencies, community-based service programs, retirement communities, convalescent centers and other senior living and ancillary services providers, including not-for-profit entities. In general, regulatory and other barriers to competitive entry in the independent living and assisted living sectors of the senior living industry are not substantial. In addition, over the last several years there has been an increase in the construction of new senior housing assets.  During 2016 and 2017, we experienced an elevated rate of competitive new openings, with significant new competition opening in several of our markets, which adversely affected our occupancy, revenues and results of operations. We expect this elevated rate of competitive new openings and pressures on our occupancy and rate growth to continue through 2018, although we cannot provide assurance that the elevated rate of new openings will subside according to our expectations since the senior living industry may become more competitive in the future. Such new competition that we have encountered or may encounter could limit our ability to attract new residents, raise or maintain resident fees or expand our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our occupancy, revenues, results of operations and cash flow.. Disruptions in the financial markets could affect our ability to obtain financing or to extend or refinance debt as it matures, which could negatively impact our liquidity, financial condition and the market price of our common stock.. The United States stock and credit markets have experienced significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, which have caused market prices of many stocks to fluctuate substantially and the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the financial markets, making terms for certain financings less attractive, and in some cases resulted in the unavailability of financing. Uncertainty in the stock and credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional financing (including any refinancing or extension of our existing debt) on reasonable terms, which may negatively affect our liquidity, financial condition and the market price of our common stock.. As of December 31, 2017, we had three principal corporate-level debt obligations: our $400.0 million secured credit facility, our $316.3 million 2.75% convertible senior notes due June 15, 2018, and our separate unsecured letter of credit facilities providing for up to $64.5 million of letters of credit in the aggregate. If we are unable to extend (or refinance, as applicable) any of our debt or credit or letter of credit facilities prior to their scheduled maturity dates, our liquidity and financial condition could be adversely impacted. In addition, even if we are able to extend or refinance our other maturing debt or credit or letter of credit facilities, the terms of the new financing may not be as favorable to us as the terms of the existing financing.. A prolonged downturn in the financial markets may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing, and may require us to further adjust our business plan accordingly. These events also may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital, including through the issuance of common stock. Disruptions in the financial markets could have an adverse effect on us and our business. If we are not able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, we also may have to forego, delay or abandon some or all of our planned capital expenditures or any lease restructuring, development or acquisition opportunities that we identify, which could adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and cash flow.. General economic factors could adversely affect our financial performance and other aspects of our business.. General economic conditions, such as inflation, commodity costs, fuel and other energy costs, costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, interest rates, and tax rates, affect our facility operating, facility lease, general and administrative and other expenses, and we have no control or limited ability to control such factors. In addition, current global economic conditions and uncertainties, the potential for failures or realignments of financial institutions, and the related impact on available credit may affect us and our business partners, landlords, counterparties and residents or prospective residents in an adverse manner including, but not limited to, reducing access to liquid funds or credit, increasing the cost of credit, limiting our ability to manage interest rate risk, increasing the risk that certain of our business partners, landlords or counterparties would be unable to fulfill their obligations to us, and other impacts which we are unable to fully anticipate.. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to cover required interest and lease payments, this would result in defaults of the related debt or leases and cross-defaults under our other debt or lease documents, which would adversely affect our capital structure, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. We have significant indebtedness and lease obligations, and we intend to continue financing our communities through mortgage financing, long-term leases and other types of financing, including borrowings under our line of credit and future credit facilities. 21. we may obtain. We cannot give any assurance that we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to cover required interest, principal and lease payments. Any non-payment or other default under our financing arrangements could, subject to cure provisions, cause the lender to foreclose upon the community or communities securing such indebtedness or, in the case of a lease, cause the lessor to terminate the lease, each with a consequent loss of revenue and asset value to us. Furthermore, in some cases, indebtedness is secured by both a mortgage on a community (or communities) and a guaranty by us and/or one or more of our subsidiaries. In the event of a default under one of these scenarios, the lender could avoid judicial procedures required to foreclose on real property by declaring all amounts outstanding under the guaranty immediately due and payable, and requiring the respective guarantor to fulfill its obligations to make such payments. The realization of any of these scenarios would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and capital structure. Additionally, a foreclosure on any of our properties could cause us to recognize taxable income, even if we did not receive any cash proceeds in connection with such foreclosure. Further, because many of our outstanding debt and lease documents contain cross-default and cross-collateralization provisions, a default by us related to one community could affect a significant number of our communities and their corresponding financing arrangements and leases. In the event of such a default, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the lender or lessor on terms acceptable or favorable to us, or at all, which would have a negative impact on our capital structure and financial condition.. Our indebtedness and long-term leases could adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to operate our business.. Our level of indebtedness and our long-term leases could adversely affect our future operations and/or impact our stockholders for several reasons, including, without limitation:. • We may have little or no cash flow apart from cash flow that is dedicated to the payment of any interest, principal or amortization required with respect to outstanding indebtedness and lease payments with respect to our long-term leases;. • Increases in our outstanding indebtedness, leverage and long-term leases will increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive pressure;. • Increases in our outstanding indebtedness may limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, expansions, repositionings, new developments, acquisitions, general corporate and other purposes; and. • Our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders may be limited.. Our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness and to make lease payments on our leases depends upon our future cash flow performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. Our business might not continue to generate cash flow at or above current levels. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt or to make lease payments on our leases, we may be required, among other things, to seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets, refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness or leases, sell selected assets, reduce or delay planned capital expenditures or delay or abandon desirable acquisitions. These measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt or to make lease payments on our leases. The failure to make required payments on our debt or leases could result in an adverse effect on our future ability to generate revenues and our results of operations and cash flow. Any contemplated financing, refinancing, restructuring, or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms to us. In addition, certain of our debt agreements contain extension options. If we are not able to satisfy the conditions precedent to exercising these extension options our liquidity and financial condition could be negatively impacted.. Our debt and lease documents contain financial and other covenants, including covenants that limit or restrict our operations and activities (including our ability to borrow additional funds and engage in certain transactions without consent of the applicable lender or lessor), and any default under such documents could result in the acceleration of our indebtedness and cash lease obligations, the foreclosure of our mortgaged communities, the termination of our leasehold interests, and/or cross-defaults under our other debt or lease documents, any of which could materially and adversely impact our capital structure, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and liquidity and interfere with our ability to pursue our strategy.. Certain of our debt and lease documents contain restrictions and financial covenants, such as those requiring us to maintain prescribed minimum net worth and stockholders' equity levels and debt service and lease coverage ratios, and requiring us not to exceed prescribed leverage ratios, in each case on a consolidated, portfolio-wide, multi-community, single-community and/or entity basis. Net worth is generally calculated as stockholders' equity as calculated in accordance with GAAP, and in certain circumstances, reduced by intangible assets or liabilities or increased by deferred gains from sale-leaseback transactions and deferred entrance fee revenue. The debt service and lease coverage ratios are generally calculated as revenues less operating expenses, including an implied management fee and a reserve for capital expenditures, divided by the debt (principal and interest). 22. or lease payment. In some cases, the calculation of the applicable financial covenants (such as the calculation of our coverage ratio for the applicable portfolio for a particular period) requires interpretation of complex debt and lease provisions. A landlord has advised us that it asserts that the manner in which we have calculated compliance with a financial covenant under master leases scheduled to expire in stages over the next approximately two and one-half years that cover a total of nine communities is incorrect.  We disagree with the landlord.  In the event that it is ultimately determined that our method of calculating such compliance was erroneous, it is possible that the recalculation could result in our failure to be in compliance with such covenant. We have reviewed the applicable lease provisions with outside counsel and remain confident that we have been, and continue to be, in compliance with the applicable requirements of the leases.  In addition, our debt and lease documents generally contain non-financial covenants, such as those requiring us to comply with Medicare or Medicaid provider requirements.. Our failure to comply with applicable covenants could constitute an event of default under the applicable debt or lease documents. Many of our debt and lease documents contain cross-default provisions so that a default under one of these instruments could cause a default under other debt and lease documents (including documents with other lenders and lessors).. These restrictions and covenants may interfere with our ability to obtain financing or to engage in other business activities, which may inhibit our ability to pursue our strategy. In addition, certain of our outstanding indebtedness and leases limit or restrict, among other things, our ability and our subsidiaries' ability to borrow additional funds, engage in a change in control transaction, dispose of all or substantially all of our or their assets, or engage in mergers or other business combinations without consent of the applicable lender or lessor. In certain circumstances, the consent of the applicable lender or lessor may be based on the lender's or lessor's sole discretion. Our inability to obtain the consent of applicable lenders and landlords in connection with our pursuit of any such transactions may forestall our ability to consummate such transactions. Furthermore, the costs of obtaining such consents may reduce the value that our stockholders may realize in any such transactions.. The substantial majority of our lease arrangements are structured as master leases. Under a master lease, numerous communities are leased through an indivisible lease. Due to the nature of such master leases, it is difficult to restructure the composition of our leased portfolios or economic terms of the leases without the consent of the applicable landlord. In addition, an event of default related to an individual property or limited number of properties within a master lease portfolio would result in a default on the entire master lease portfolio.. Furthermore, our debt and leases are secured by our communities and, in certain cases, a guaranty by us and/or one or more of our subsidiaries. Therefore, if an event of default has occurred under any of our debt or lease documents, subject to cure provisions in certain instances, the respective lender or lessor would have the right to declare all the related outstanding amounts of indebtedness or cash lease obligations immediately due and payable, to foreclose on our mortgaged communities, to terminate our leasehold interests, to foreclose on other collateral securing the indebtedness and leases, to discontinue our operation of leased communities and/or to pursue other remedies available to such lender or lessor. Further, an event of default could trigger cross-default provisions in our other debt and lease documents (including documents with other lenders or lessors). We cannot provide assurance that we would be able to pay the debt or lease obligations if they became due upon acceleration following an event of default.. In addition, certain of our master leases and management agreements contain radius restrictions, which limit our ability to own, develop or acquire new communities within a specified distance from certain existing communities covered by such agreements. These radius restrictions could negatively affect our ability to expand or develop or acquire senior housing communities and operating companies.. Mortgage debt and lease obligations expose us to increased risk of loss of property, which could harm our ability to generate future revenues and could have an adverse tax effect.. Mortgage debt and lease obligations increase our risk of loss because defaults on indebtedness secured by properties or pursuant to the terms of the lease may result in foreclosure actions initiated by lenders or lessors and ultimately our loss of the property securing any loans for which we are in default or cause the lessor to terminate the lease. For tax purposes, a foreclosure of any of our properties would be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure, but would not receive any cash proceeds, which could negatively impact our results of operations and cash flow. Further, our mortgage debt and leases generally contain cross-default and cross-collateralization provisions and a default on one community could affect a significant number of our communities, financing arrangements and leases.. In addition, our leases generally provide for renewal or extension options and, in certain cases, purchase options. These options generally are based upon prescribed formulas but, in certain cases, may be at fair market value. We expect to renew, extend or exercise purchase options with respect to our leases in the normal course of business; however, there can be no assurance that. 23. these rights will be exercised in the future or that we will be able to satisfy the conditions precedent to exercising any such renewal, extension or purchase options. Furthermore, the terms of any such options that are based on fair market value are inherently uncertain and could be unacceptable or unfavorable to us depending on the circumstances at the time of exercise. If we are not able to renew or extend our existing leases, or purchase the communities subject to such leases, at or prior to the end of the existing lease terms, or if the terms of such options are unfavorable or unacceptable to us, our business, results of operations and cash flow could be adversely affected.. Increases in market interest rates could significantly increase the costs of our unhedged debt and lease obligations, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow.. Our unhedged floating-rate debt and lease payment obligations and any unhedged floating-rate debt incurred in the future, exposes us to interest rate risk. Therefore, increases in prevailing interest rates could increase our payment obligations, which would negatively impact our results of operations and cash flow.. Increases in the cost and availability of labor, including increased competition for or a shortage of skilled personnel, increased wage pressures or increased union activity, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flow.. Our success depends on our ability to retain and attract skilled management personnel who are responsible for the day-to-day operations of each of our communities. Each community has an Executive Director responsible for the overall day-to-day operations of the community, including quality of care and service, social services and financial performance. Depending upon the size of the community, each Executive Director is supported by a community staff member (health and wellness director or nursing director) who is directly responsible for day-to-day care of residents and community sales/marketing staff with regional support to oversee the community's sales, marketing and community outreach programs. Other key positions supporting each community may include individuals responsible for food service, healthcare services, activities, housekeeping and maintenance.. We compete with various health care service providers, including other senior living providers, in retaining and attracting qualified and skilled personnel. Increased competition for or a shortage of nurses, therapists or other trained personnel, or general inflationary pressures may require that we enhance our pay and benefits package to compete effectively for such personnel.  In addition, we have experienced and may continue to experience wage pressures due to minimum wage increases mandated by state and local laws and the increase to the salary thresholds for overtime exemptions under the Fair Labor Standards Act, which were adopted by the Department of Labor in May 2016.  The changes to the thresholds for overtime exemptions were to be effective December 1, 2016, but were struck down by a United States District Court in 2017, prior to their implementation.  The Department of Labor appealed the District Court's decision and then moved to stay the case pending further rule-making efforts.  It is unclear what rule changes adopted by the Department of Labor ultimately will become effective.  If such rule changes result in higher operating costs, we may not be able to offset such added costs resulting from competitive, inflationary or regulatory pressures by increasing the rates we charge to our residents or our service charges, which would negatively impact our results of operations and cash flow.. Turnover rates and the magnitude of the shortage of nurses, therapists or other trained personnel varies substantially from market to market. If we fail to attract and retain qualified and skilled personnel, our ability to conduct our business operations effectively, our overall operating results and cash flow could be harmed.. In addition, efforts by labor unions to unionize any of our community personnel could divert management attention, lead to increases in our labor costs and/or reduce our flexibility with respect to certain workplace rules. New election rules promulgated by the National Labor Relations Board went into effect in April 2015 and substantially changed - and expedited - the union election process, thereby limiting the time available for us to attempt to persuade employees to vote against representation. If we experience an increase in organizing activity, if onerous collective bargaining agreement terms are imposed upon us, or if we otherwise experience an increase in our staffing and labor costs, our results of operations and cash flow would be negatively affected.. We have a history of losses and we may not be able to achieve profitability.. We have incurred net losses in every year since our formation in June 2005. Given our history of losses, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve and/or maintain profitability in the future. If we do not effectively manage our cash flow and business operations going forward or otherwise achieve profitability, our stock price could be adversely affected.. Pending and future disposition transactions are subject to closing conditions, including the receipt of regulatory approvals, likely will result in reductions to our revenue and may result in reductions to our results of operations and cash flow.. During 2018, we expect to close on the dispositions of 15 owned communities classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2017, the terminations of our triple-net leases on 33 communities and the pending terminations of management agreements on 37. 24. communities.  In addition, we plan to market in 2018 and sell approximately 30 owned communities, and we plan to continue to evaluate our owned and leased community portfolios for opportunities to dispose of owned communities and terminate leases, and to evaluate and, where opportunities arise, pursue lease restructurings (which may take the form of non-renewal of leases, negotiation of revised lease terms, termination of leases in favor of venture structures in which we would have an interest and, to a lesser degree, the purchase of the leased communities).  The closing of any such dispositions, or those we identify in the future, generally are subject to closing conditions, including the receipt of regulatory approvals, and we cannot provide assurance that any such transactions will close or, if they do, when the actual closings will occur.  The sales price for pending or future dispositions may not meet our expectations due to the underlying performance of such communities or conditions beyond our control, and we may be required to take impairment charges in connection with such sales if the carrying amounts of such assets exceed the proposed sales prices, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  Further, we cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in identifying and pursuing disposition opportunities on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. We may be required to pay significant amounts to restructure leases and we may be required to take charges in connection with restructuring of leases, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Completion of the dispositions of communities through sales or lease terminations, including pending transactions and those we enter into in the future, likely will result in reductions to our revenue and may result in reductions to our results of operations and cash flow.  Further, if we are unable to reduce our general and administrative expense with respect to completed dispositions and lease terminations in accordance with our expectations, we may not realize the expected benefits of such transactions, which could negatively impact our anticipated results of operations and cash flow.. We may need additional capital to fund our operations, to execute on our strategy and to pursue any lease restructuring, development or acquisition opportunities, and we may not be able to obtain it on terms acceptable to us, or at all.. Execution on our strategy may require additional capital, particularly if we were to identify and pursue lease restructuring, development or acquisition opportunities. Financing may not be available to us or may be available to us only on terms that are not favorable. In addition, certain of our outstanding indebtedness and long-term leases restrict, among other things, our ability to incur additional debt. If we are unable to raise additional funds or obtain them on terms acceptable to us, we may have to delay or abandon some or all of our plans or opportunities. Further, if additional funds are raised through the issuance of additional equity securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders would be diluted. Any newly issued equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock.. We are heavily dependent on mortgage financing provided by Federal National Mortgage Association (\"Fannie Mae\") and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (\"Freddie Mac\") (collectively, the \"Agency Lenders\"). The Agency Lenders are currently operating under a conservatorship begun in 2008, conducting business under the direction of the Federal Housing Finance Agency. Reform efforts related to the Agency Lenders may make such financing sources less available or unavailable in the future and may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing. There can be no assurance that such alternative sources will be available.. If we are unable to expand, renovate, reposition or redevelop our communities in accordance with our plans, our anticipated revenues, results of operations and cash flow could be adversely affected.. We are currently working on projects that will expand, renovate, reposition or redevelop a number of our existing senior living communities. These projects are in various stages of development and are subject to a number of factors over which we have little or no control. These factors include the necessity of arranging separate leases, mortgage loans or other financings to provide the capital required to complete these projects; difficulties or delays in obtaining zoning, land use, building, occupancy, licensing, certificate of need and other required governmental permits and approvals; failure to complete construction of the projects on budget and on schedule; failure of third-party contractors and subcontractors to perform under their contracts; shortages of labor or materials that could delay projects or make them more expensive; adverse weather conditions that could delay completion of projects; increased costs resulting from general economic conditions or increases in the cost of materials; and increased costs as a result of changes in laws and regulations. We cannot provide assurance that we will elect to undertake or complete all of our proposed expansion, renovation, repositioning and redevelopment projects, or that we will not experience delays in completing those projects. In addition, we may incur substantial costs prior to achieving stabilized occupancy for each such project and cannot assure you that these costs will not be greater than we have anticipated. We also cannot provide assurance that any of our expansion, renovation, repositioning or redevelopment projects will be economically successful. Our failure to achieve our expansion, renovation, repositioning and redevelopment plans could adversely impact our anticipated revenues, results of operations and cash flow.. We may encounter difficulties in acquiring communities at attractive prices or integrating acquisitions with our operations, which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. 25. We will continue to selectively target strategic acquisitions as opportunities arise. To the extent we do identify and complete any future acquisition opportunities, the process of identifying potential acquisition candidates, completing acquisition transactions and integrating acquired communities or businesses into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties, divert managerial attention or require significant financial or other resources. These acquisitions and other future acquisitions may require us to incur additional indebtedness and contingent liabilities, and may result in unforeseen expenses or compliance issues, which may adversely affect our revenue growth, results of operations and cash flow. Moreover, any future acquisitions may not generate any additional income for us or provide any benefit to our business. In addition, we may not be able to locate and acquire communities or businesses at attractive prices in locations that are compatible with our strategy or that competition for the acquisition of communities will not increase. Finally, when we are able to locate communities and enter into definitive agreements to acquire or lease them, we cannot provide assurance that the transactions will be completed. Failure to complete transactions after we have entered into definitive agreements may result in significant expenses to us.. Unforeseen costs associated with acquisitions could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flow.. We plan to continue to selectively target strategic acquisitions of operating companies, senior living communities and ancillary services companies as opportunities arise. Despite our extensive underwriting and due diligence procedures, operating companies and communities that we have previously acquired or may acquire in the future may generate unexpectedly low or no returns or may not meet a risk profile that our investors find acceptable. In addition, we might encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any of the acquired operating companies and communities, including contingent liabilities, or newly acquired communities or operating companies might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. For example, a community may require capital expenditures in excess of budgeted amounts, or it may experience management turnover that is higher than we project. These costs may negatively affect our future results of operations and cash flow.. Competition for the acquisition of strategic assets from buyers with greater financial resources or lower costs of capital than us or that have lower return expectations than we do could limit our ability to compete for strategic acquisitions and therefore to grow our business effectively.. Several publicly-traded and non-traded real estate investment trusts, or REITs, and private equity firms have similar asset acquisition objectives as we do, along with greater financial resources and/or lower costs of capital than we are able to obtain. This may increase competition for acquisitions that would be suitable to us. There is significant competition among potential acquirers in the senior living industry, including publicly-traded and non-traded REITs and private equity firms, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully complete acquisitions, which could limit our ability to grow our business. Partially as a result of tax law changes enacted through RIDEA, we now compete more directly with the various publicly-traded healthcare REITs for the acquisition of senior housing properties.. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals could hinder our plans to expand our ancillary services programs, which could negatively impact our anticipated revenues, results of operations and cash flow.. We plan to expand our offering of ancillary services, including home health and hospice, to additional markets. In the current environment, it is difficult to obtain certain required regulatory approvals. Delays in obtaining required regulatory approvals could impede our ability to expand to additional markets in accordance with our plans, which could negatively impact our anticipated revenues, results of operations and cash flow.. Our investment in our entrance fee CCRC venture with HCP is susceptible to risks associated with the lifecare benefits offered to the residents of the venture's lifecare entrance fee communities, and we are also susceptible to such risks for our owned and/or operated entrance fee CCRCs.. As of December 31, 2017, we managed lifecare entrance fee communities as part of our entrance fee CCRC venture with HCP, and we owned and/or operated other lifecare communities. Residents of these communities typically receive a limited lifecare benefit and pay an upfront entrance fee upon occupancy, of which a portion is generally refundable, with an additional monthly service fee while living in the community. This limited lifecare benefit is typically a certain number of free days in the community's health center during the resident's lifetime and/or a discounted rate for such services. The lifecare benefit varies based upon the extent to which the resident's entrance fee is refundable. The pricing of entrance fees, refundability provisions, monthly service fees, and lifecare benefits are determined utilizing actuarial projections of the expected morbidity and mortality of the resident population. In the event the entrance fees and monthly service payments established for these communities are not sufficient to cover the cost of lifecare benefits granted to residents, our interest in the results of operations and cash flow of these communities and the venture could be adversely affected.. 26. Residents of these entrance fee communities are guaranteed a living unit and nursing care at the community during their lifetime, even if the resident exhausts his or her financial resources and becomes unable to satisfy his or her obligations to the community. In addition, in the event a resident requires nursing care and there is insufficient capacity for the resident in the nursing facility at the community where the resident lives, the community must contract with a third party to provide such care. Although we screen potential residents to ensure that they have adequate assets, income, and reimbursements from government programs and third parties to pay their obligations to the entrance fee communities during their lifetime, we cannot assure you that such assets, income, and reimbursements will be sufficient in all cases. If insufficient, we or the entrance fee CCRC venture, as applicable, would have rights of set-off against the refundable portions of the residents' deposits, and would also seek available reimbursement under Medicaid or other available programs. To the extent that the financial resources of some of the residents are not sufficient to pay for the cost of facilities and services provided to them, or in the event that these communities must pay third parties to provide nursing care to residents of these communities, our interest in the results of operations and cash flow of these communities and the venture would be adversely affected.. Early termination or non-renewal of our management agreements could cause a loss in revenues and negatively impact our results of operations and cash flow.. We operate certain of our communities pursuant to management agreements. In some of these cases, the controlling financial interest in the community is held by third parties and, in other cases, the community is owned by an unconsolidated venture in which we have an ownership interest. As of December 31, 2017, we managed 229 communities, representing approximately 33.7% of our capacity, for third parties or unconsolidated ventures. The majority of our management agreements are long-term agreements. In most cases, either party to the agreements may terminate upon the occurrence of an event of default caused by the other party. In addition, in some cases, subject to our rights, if any, to cure deficiencies, community owners may terminate us as manager if any licenses or certificates necessary for operation are revoked, if we do not satisfy certain designated performance thresholds or if the community is sold to an unrelated third party (in which case we may be entitled to receive a contractual termination fee). Also, in some instances, a community owner may terminate the management agreement relating to a particular community if we are in default under other management agreements relating to other communities owned by the same owner or its affiliates. Certain of our management agreements, both with unconsolidated ventures and with entities owned by third parties, provide that an event of default under the debt instruments applicable to the ventures or the entities owned by third parties that is caused by us may also be considered an event of default by us under the relevant management agreement, giving the non-Brookdale party to the management agreement the right to pursue the remedies provided for in the management agreement, potentially including termination of the management agreement. Further, in the event of default on a loan, the lender may have the ability to terminate us as manager. With respect to communities held in unconsolidated ventures, in some cases, the management agreement can be terminated in connection with the sale by the venture partner of its interest in the venture or the sale of properties by the venture. Early termination of our management agreements or non-renewal or renewal on less-favorable terms could cause a loss in revenues and could negatively impact our results of operations and cash flow.. The geographic concentration of our communities could leave us vulnerable to an economic downturn, regulatory changes or acts of nature in those areas, which could negatively impact our revenues, results of operations and cash flow.. We have a high concentration of communities in various geographic areas, including the states of California, Florida and Texas. As a result of this concentration, the conditions of local economies and real estate markets, changes in governmental rules and regulations, particularly with respect to assisted living communities, acts of nature and other factors that may result in a decrease in demand for senior living services in these states could have an adverse effect on our revenues, results of operations and cash flow. In addition, given the location of our communities, we are particularly susceptible to revenue loss, cost increase or damage caused by severe weather conditions or natural disasters such as hurricanes, wildfires, earthquakes or tornados. Any significant loss due to a natural disaster may not be covered by insurance and may lead to an increase in the cost of insurance.. Termination of our resident agreements and vacancies in the living spaces we lease could adversely affect our occupancy, revenues, results of operations and cash flow.. State regulations governing assisted living communities require written resident agreements with each resident. Several of these regulations also require that each resident have the right to terminate the resident agreement for any reason on reasonable notice. Consistent with these regulations, many of our assisted living resident agreements allow residents to terminate their agreements upon 0 to 30 days' notice. Unlike typical apartment leasing or independent living arrangements that involve lease agreements with specified leasing periods of up to a year or longer, in many instances we cannot contract with our assisted living residents to stay in those living spaces for longer periods of time. Our retirement center resident agreements generally provide for termination of the lease upon death or allow a resident to terminate his or her lease upon the need for a higher level of care not provided at the community. If multiple residents terminate their resident agreements at or around the same time, our occupancy, revenues, results. 27. of operations and cash flow could be adversely affected. In addition, because of the demographics of our typical residents, including age and health, resident turnover rates in our communities are difficult to predict. As a result, the living spaces we lease may be unoccupied for a period of time, which could adversely affect our occupancy, revenues, results of operations and cash flow.. The inability of seniors to sell real estate may delay their moving into our communities, which could negatively impact our occupancy rates, revenues, results of operations and cash flow.. Downturns in the housing markets could adversely affect the ability (or perceived ability) of seniors to afford our resident fees and entrance fees as our customers frequently use the proceeds from the sale of their homes to cover the cost of our fees. Specifically, if seniors have a difficult time selling their homes or their homes' values decrease, these difficulties could impact their ability to relocate into our communities or finance their stays at our communities with private resources. If national or local housing markets experience protracted volatility, our occupancy rates, revenues, results of operations and cash flow could be negatively impacted.. The transition of management or unexpected departure of our key officers could harm our business.. We have recently undergone changes in our senior management, may in the future experience further changes in our management, and are dependent on the efforts of our executive officers.  The transition of management, the unforeseen loss or limited availability of the services of any of our executive officers, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could, at least temporarily, have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and be negatively perceived in the capital markets.. Our execution of our redefined strategy may not be successful, and initiatives undertaken to execute on our strategic priorities may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and the price of our common stock.. The success of our redefined strategy depends on our ability to successfully identify and implement initiatives to execute on our strategic priorities, as well as factors outside of our control.  Such initiatives may not be successful in achieving our expectations or may require more time and resources than expected to implement.  There can be no assurance that our redefined strategy or initiatives undertaken to execute on our strategic priorities will be successful and, as a result, such initiatives may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and the price of our common stock.. Environmental contamination at any of our communities could result in substantial liabilities to us, which may exceed the value of the underlying assets and which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real property, such as us, may be held liable in certain circumstances for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of, or related to the release of, certain hazardous or toxic substances, that could be located on, in, at or under a property, regardless of how such materials came to be located there. The cost of any required investigation, remediation, removal, mitigation, compliance, fines or personal or property damages and our liability therefore could exceed the property's value and/or our assets' value. In addition, the presence of such substances, or the failure to properly dispose of or remediate the damage caused by such substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell such property, to attract additional residents and retain existing residents, to borrow using such property as collateral or to develop or redevelop such property. In addition, such laws impose liability, which may be joint and several, for investigation, remediation, removal and mitigation costs on persons who disposed of or arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances at third party sites. Such laws and regulations often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence, release or disposal of such substances as well as without regard to whether such release or disposal was in compliance with law at the time it occurred. Although we do not believe that we have incurred such liabilities as would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, we could be subject to substantial future liability for environmental contamination that we have no knowledge about as of the date of this report and/or for which we may not be at fault.. Failure to comply with existing environmental laws could result in increased expenditures, litigation and potential loss to our business and in our asset value, which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. Our operations are subject to regulation under various federal, state and local environmental laws, including those relating to: the handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of medical waste products generated at our communities; identification and warning of the presence of asbestos-containing materials in buildings, as well as removal of such materials; the presence of other substances in the indoor environment; and protection of the environment and natural resources in connection with development or construction of our properties.. 28. Some of our communities generate infectious or other hazardous medical waste due to the illness or physical condition of the residents. Each of our communities has an agreement with a waste management company for the proper disposal of all infectious medical waste, but the use of such waste management companies does not immunize us from alleged violations of such laws for operations for which we are responsible even if carried out by such waste management companies, nor does it immunize us from third-party claims for the cost to cleanup disposal sites at which such wastes have been disposed.. Federal regulations require building owners and those exercising control over a building's management to identify and warn their employees and certain other employers operating in the building of potential hazards posed by workplace exposure to installed asbestos-containing materials and potential asbestos-containing materials in their buildings. Significant fines can be assessed for violation of these regulations. Building owners and those exercising control over a building's management may be subject to an increased risk of personal injury lawsuits. Federal, state and local laws and regulations also govern the removal, encapsulation, disturbance, handling and/or disposal of asbestos-containing materials and potential asbestos-containing materials when such materials are in poor condition or in the event of construction, remodeling, renovation or demolition of a building. Such laws may impose liability for improper handling or a release to the environment of asbestos-containing materials and potential asbestos-containing materials and may provide for fines to, and for third parties to seek recovery from, owners or operators of real properties for personal injury or improper work exposure associated with asbestos-containing materials and potential asbestos-containing materials.. The presence of mold, lead-based paint, contaminants in drinking water, radon and/or other substances at any of the communities we own or may acquire may lead to the incurrence of costs for remediation, mitigation or the implementation of an operations and maintenance plan and may result in third party litigation for personal injury or property damage. Furthermore, in some circumstances, areas affected by mold may be unusable for periods of time for repairs, and even after successful remediation, the known prior presence of extensive mold could adversely affect the ability of a community to retain or attract residents and could adversely affect a community's market value.. Although we believe that we are currently in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, if we fail to comply with such laws in the future, we would face increased expenditures both in terms of fines and remediation of the underlying problem(s), potential litigation relating to exposure to such materials, and potential decrease in value to our business and in the value of our underlying assets. Therefore, our failure to comply with existing environmental laws would have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. We are unable to predict the future course of federal, state and local environmental regulation and legislation. Changes in the environmental regulatory framework (including legislative or regulatory efforts designed to address climate change, such as the proposed \"cap and trade\" legislation) could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, because environmental laws vary from state to state, expansion of our operations to states where we do not currently operate may subject us to additional restrictions on the manner in which we operate our communities.. Risks Related to Pending Litigation. Complaints filed against us could, if adversely determined, subject us to a material loss.. We have been and are currently involved in litigation and claims, including putative class action claims from time to time, incidental to the conduct of our business which are generally comparable to other companies in the senior living and healthcare industries. Certain claims and lawsuits allege large damage amounts and may require significant costs to defend and resolve. Similarly, the senior living and healthcare industries are continuously subject to scrutiny by governmental regulators, which could result in litigation related to regulatory compliance matters. As a result, we maintain general liability and professional liability insurance policies in amounts and with coverage and deductibles we believe are adequate, based on the nature and risks of our business, historical experience and industry standards. Our current policies are written on a claims-made basis and provide for deductibles for each claim. Accordingly, we are, in effect, self-insured for claims that are less than the deductible amounts and for claims or portions of claims that are not covered by such policies. If we experience a greater number of losses than we anticipate, or if certain claims are not ultimately covered by insurance, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Risks Related to Our Industry. We face periodic and routine reviews, audits and investigations under our contracts with government agencies, and these audits could have adverse findings that may negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. 29. As a result of our participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, we are subject to various government reviews, audits and investigations to verify our compliance with these programs and applicable laws and regulations. CMS has engaged a number of third party firms, including Recovery Audit Contractors (RAC), Zone Program Integrity Contractors (ZPIC), and Unified Program Integrity Contractors (UPIC), to conduct extensive reviews of claims data to evaluate the appropriateness of billings submitted for payment. Audit contractors may identify overpayments based on coverage requirements, billing and coding rules or other risk areas.  In addition to identifying overpayments, audit contractors can refer suspected violations of law to government enforcement authorities.  An adverse determination of government reviews, audits and investigations may result in citations, sanctions and other criminal or civil fines and penalties, the refund of overpayments, payment suspensions, termination of participation in Medicare and Medicaid programs, and/or damage to the Company's business reputation.  Our costs to respond to and defend any such audits, reviews and investigations may be significant and are likely to increase in the current enforcement environment, and any resulting sanctions or criminal, civil or regulatory penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. The cost and difficulty of complying with increasing and evolving regulation and enforcement could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flow.. The regulatory environment surrounding the senior living industry continues to evolve and intensify in the amount and type of laws and regulations affecting it, many of which vary from state to state. In addition, many senior living communities are subject to regulation and licensing by state and local health and social service agencies and other regulatory authorities.  In several of the states there are different levels of care that can be provided based on the level of licensure.  In addition, in several of the states in which we operate or intend to operate, assisted living communities, home health agencies and/or skilled nursing facilities require a certificate of need before the community can be opened or the services at an existing community can be expanded.  These requirements, and the increased enforcement thereof, could affect our ability to expand into new markets, to expand our services and communities in existing markets and, if any of our presently licensed communities were to operate outside of its licensing authority, may subject us to penalties including closure of the community.  See \"Item 1. Business - Government Regulation\" for more information regarding regulation and enforcement in our industry.. Federal, state and local officials are increasingly focusing their efforts on enforcement of these laws and regulations. This is particularly true for large for-profit, multi-community providers like us.  Future regulatory developments as well as mandatory increases in the scope and severity of deficiencies determined by survey or inspection officials could cause our operations to suffer. We are unable to predict the future course of federal, state and local legislation or regulation. If regulatory requirements increase, whether through enactment of new laws or regulations or changes in the enforcement of existing rules, our business, results of operations and cash flow could be adversely affected.. The intensified regulatory and enforcement environment impacts providers like us because of the increase in the number of inspections or surveys by governmental authorities and consequent citations for failure to comply with regulatory requirements. We also expend considerable resources to respond to federal and state investigations or other enforcement action. From time to time in the ordinary course of business, we receive deficiency reports from state and federal regulatory bodies resulting from such inspections or surveys. Although most inspection deficiencies are resolved through a plan of corrective action, the reviewing agency may have the authority to take further action against a licensed or certified facility, which could result in the imposition of fines, imposition of a provisional or conditional license, suspension or revocation of a license, suspension or denial of admissions, loss of certification as a provider under federal reimbursement programs or imposition of other sanctions, including criminal penalties. Furthermore, certain states may allow citations in one community to impact other communities in the state. Revocation of a license at a given community could therefore impact our ability to obtain new licenses or to renew existing licenses at other communities, which may also cause us to default under our debt and lease documents and/or trigger cross-defaults. The failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements could result in a material adverse effect to our business as a whole.. There are various extremely complex federal and state laws governing a wide array of referral relationships and arrangements and prohibiting fraud by health care providers, including those in the senior living industry, and governmental agencies are devoting increasing attention and resources to such anti-fraud initiatives. Some examples are the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, and the False Claims Act, which gives private individuals the ability to bring an action on behalf of the federal government. The violation of any of these laws or regulations may result in the imposition of fines or other penalties that could increase our costs and otherwise jeopardize our business. Under the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, or DRA 2005, every entity that receives at least $5.0 million annually in Medicaid payments must have established written policies for all employees, contractors or agents, providing detailed information about false claims, false statements and whistleblower protections under certain federal laws, including the federal False Claims Act, and similar state laws. Failure to comply with this compliance requirement may potentially give rise to potential liability. DRA 2005 also creates an incentive for states to enact false claims laws that are comparable to the federal False Claims Act.. 30. Additionally, since we provide services and operate communities that participate in federal and/or state health care reimbursement programs, we are subject to federal and state laws that prohibit anyone from presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for reimbursement which are false, fraudulent or are for items or services that were not provided as claimed. Similar state laws vary from state to state. Violation of any of these laws can result in loss of licensure, citations, sanctions and other criminal or civil fines and penalties, the refund of overpayments, payment suspensions, or termination of participation in Medicare and Medicaid programs, which may also cause us to default under our debt and lease documents and/or trigger cross-defaults.. We are also subject to certain federal and state laws that regulate financial arrangements by health care providers, such as the Federal Anti-Kickback Law, the Stark laws and certain state referral laws. Authorities have interpreted the Federal Anti-Kickback Law very broadly to apply to many practices and relationships between health care providers and sources of patient referral. If we were to violate the Federal Anti-Kickback Law, we may face criminal penalties and civil sanctions, including fines and possible exclusion from government reimbursement programs, which may also cause us to default under our debt and lease documents and/or trigger cross-defaults.  Adverse consequences may also result if we violate federal Stark laws related to certain Medicare and Medicaid physician referrals. While we endeavor to comply with all laws that regulate the licensure and operation of our business, it is difficult to predict how our revenues could be affected if we were subject to an action alleging such violations.. Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, Fair Housing Act and fire, safety and other regulations may require us to make unanticipated expenditures, which could increase our costs and therefore adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Certain of our communities, or portions thereof, are subject to compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, or ADA. The ADA has separate compliance requirements for \"public accommodations\" and \"commercial properties,\" but generally requires that buildings be made accessible to people with disabilities. Compliance with ADA requirements could require removal of access barriers and non-compliance could result in imposition of government fines or an award of damages to private litigants.. We must also comply with the Fair Housing Act, which prohibits us from discriminating against individuals on certain bases in any of our practices if it would cause such individuals to face barriers in gaining residency in any of our communities. Additionally, the Fair Housing Act and other state laws require that we advertise our services in such a way that we promote diversity and not limit it. We may be required, among other things, to change our marketing techniques to comply with these requirements.. In addition, we are required to operate our communities in compliance with applicable fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations and food licensing or certification requirements as they may be adopted by governmental agencies and bodies from time to time. Like other health care facilities, senior living communities are subject to periodic survey or inspection by governmental authorities to assess and assure compliance with regulatory requirements. Surveys occur on a regular (often annual or bi-annual) schedule, and special surveys may result from a specific complaint filed by a resident, a family member or one of our competitors. We may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to comply with those requirements.. Following Hurricane Irma in 2017, the State of Florida issued an emergency order requiring skilled nursing homes and assisted living communities to obtain generators and fuel necessary to sustain operations and maintain comfortable temperatures in the event of a power outage.  The emergency order has been overturned and there are legislative and regulatory rulemaking actions in process to address generator requirements.  We may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to comply with any legislative or administrative generator requirements ultimately adopted in Florida.. The increased costs and capital expenditures that we may incur in order to comply with any of the above would result in a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Significant legal actions and liability claims against us in excess of insurance limits could subject us to increased operating costs and substantial uninsured liabilities, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. The senior living and healthcare services businesses entail an inherent risk of liability, particularly given the demographics of our residents, including age and health, and the services we provide. In recent years, we, as well as other participants in our industry, have been subject to an increasing number of claims and lawsuits alleging that our services have resulted in resident injury or other adverse effects. Many of these lawsuits involve large damage claims and significant legal costs. Many states continue to consider tort reform and how it will apply to the senior living industry. We may continue to be faced with the threat of large jury verdicts in jurisdictions that do not find favor with large senior living or healthcare providers. We maintain liability insurance policies in amounts and with the coverage and deductibles we believe are adequate based on the nature and risks of our business, historical experience and industry standards. We have formed a wholly-owned \"captive\" insurance company for the purpose of insuring certain portions of our risk retention under our general and professional liability insurance programs. There can be no guarantee that we will not have any claims that exceed our policy limits in the future.. 31. If a successful claim is made against us and it is not covered by our insurance or exceeds the policy limits, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In some states, state law may prohibit or limit insurance coverage for the risk of punitive damages arising from professional liability and general liability claims and/or litigation. As a result, we may be liable for punitive damage awards in these states that either are not covered or are in excess of our insurance policy limits. Also, the above deductibles, or self-insured retention, are accrued based on an actuarial projection of future liabilities. If these projections are inaccurate and if there are an unexpectedly large number of successful claims that result in liabilities in excess of our self-insured retention, our operating results could be negatively affected. Claims against us, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, also could have a material adverse effect on our ability to attract residents or expand our business and could require our management to devote time to matters unrelated to the day-to-day operation of our business. We also have to renew our policies every year and negotiate acceptable terms for coverage, exposing us to the volatility of the insurance markets, including the possibility of rate increases. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain liability insurance in the future or, if available, that such coverage will be available on acceptable terms.. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure. Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated by-laws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that investors may consider favorable or prevent the removal of our current board of directors and management.. Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated by-laws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that investors may consider favorable or prevent the removal of our current board of directors and management. We have a number of anti-takeover devices in place that will hinder takeover attempts, including:. • a staggered board of directors consisting of three classes of directors, each of whom serve three-year terms;. • removal of directors only for cause, and only with the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the voting interest of stockholders entitled to vote;. • blank-check preferred stock;. • provisions preventing stockholders from calling special meetings or acting by written consent;. • advance notice requirements for stockholders with respect to director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings; and. • no provision in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation for cumulative voting in the election of directors, which means that the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock can elect all the directors standing for election.. Additionally, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which restricts certain business combinations with interested stockholders in certain situations, will not apply to us.. We are a holding company with no operations and rely on our operating subsidiaries to provide us with funds necessary to meet our financial obligations.. We are a holding company with no material direct operations. Our principal assets are the equity interests we directly or indirectly hold in our operating subsidiaries. As a result, we are dependent on loans, distributions and other payments from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations. Our subsidiaries are legally distinct from us and have no obligation to make funds available to us.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile, which could result in rapid and substantial losses for our stockholders.. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. If the market price of our common stock declines significantly, stockholders may be unable to resell their shares at or above their purchase price. The market price. 32. of our common stock may fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include:. • variations in our quarterly results of operations and cash flow;. • changes in our operating performance and liquidity guidance;. • the contents of published research reports about us or the senior living industry or the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock;. • additions or departures of key management personnel;. • any increased indebtedness we may incur or lease obligations we may enter into in the future;. • actions by institutional stockholders;. • changes in market valuations of similar companies;. • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments;. • speculation or reports by the press or investment community with respect to us or the senior living industry in general;. • proxy contests or other shareholder activism;. • increases in market interest rates that may lead purchasers of our shares to demand a higher yield;. • downturns in the real estate market or changes in market valuations of senior living communities;. • changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations affecting the senior living industry or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters; and. • general market and economic conditions.. Future offerings of debt or equity securities by us may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by offering additional debt or equity securities, including commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior or subordinated notes, convertible securities, series of preferred shares or shares of our common stock. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and preferred stock, and lenders with respect to other borrowings, would receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the economic and voting rights of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Shares of our preferred stock, if issued, could have a preference with respect to liquidating distributions or a preference with respect to dividend payments that could limit our ability to pay dividends to the holders of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, holders of our common stock bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their shareholdings in us.. We may issue all of the shares of our common stock that are authorized but unissued (and not otherwise reserved for issuance under our stock incentive or purchase plans or pursuant to the conversion or exercise features of our convertible senior notes and warrants) without any action or approval by our stockholders. We may issue shares of common stock in connection with acquisitions of existing operating companies, senior living communities and ancillary services companies. Any shares issued in connection with our acquisitions or otherwise would dilute the holdings of our current stockholders.. The market price of our common stock could be negatively affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets.. At December 31, 2017, approximately 186.5 million shares of our common stock were outstanding (excluding unvested restricted shares). All of the shares of our common stock are freely transferable, except for any shares held by our \"affiliates,\" as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, or any shares otherwise subject to the limitations of Rule 144.. 33. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, approximately 4.8 million shares of restricted common stock were outstanding under our 2014 Omnibus Incentive Plan and our Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan, and we had availability to issue approximately 11.3 million additional shares under our 2014 Omnibus Incentive Plan, our Associate Stock Purchase Plan, and our Director Stock Purchase Plan.  The shares of our common stock issued or issuable pursuant to these plans are or will be registered under the Securities Act, and once any restrictions imposed on the shares and options granted under these plans expire, such shares of common stock will be available for sale into the public markets.. Our ability to use net operating loss carryovers to reduce future tax payments will be limited.. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue code contains rules that limit the ability of a company that undergoes an ownership change, which is generally any change in ownership of 50% of its stock over a three-year period, to utilize its net operating loss carryforward and certain built-in losses recognized in years after the ownership change. These rules generally operate by focusing on ownership changes involving stockholders owning directly or indirectly 5% or more of the stock of a company and any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of stock by the company. We have determined that an ownership change occurred within the second quarter of 2010, and, therefore, losses carried into the change period have been subject to an annual limitation. The annual limitation is equal to the product of the applicable long term tax exempt rate and the value of our stock immediately before the ownership change, adjusted for certain items. The annual limitation may be increased by certain built-in gains existing at the time of change. The acquisition of Emeritus Corporation also resulted in an ownership change and created an annual limitation on Emeritus' net operating losses. Such annual limitations may result in our being unable to utilize all of our net operating loss carryforwards generated in tax years prior to 2018 before their expiration."
