[1] "ITEM 1A    RISK FACTORS. The following risk factors should be considered in conjunction with the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This report may include forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. In addition to those risk factors discussed elsewhere in this report, we identify the following risk factors, which could affect our actual results and cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements.. We may lose money when we exchange foreign currency received from international sales into U.S. Dollars.. A significant portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, which is our reporting currency. As a result, currency fluctuations among the U.S. Dollar and the currencies in which we do business have caused, and will continue to cause, foreign currency translation gains and losses. In addition, currency fluctuations could cause the price of our products to be more or less competitive than our principal competitors' products. Currency fluctuations will increase or decrease our cost structure relative to those of our competitors, which could lessen the demand for our products and affect our competitive position. From time to time we enter into certain hedging transactions and/or option and foreign currency exchange contracts which are intended to offset some of the market risk associated with our sales denominated in foreign currencies. We cannot predict the effectiveness of these transactions or their impact upon our future operating results, and from time to time they may negatively affect our quarterly earnings.. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates.. In addition to the foreign currency exposure associated with differences between where our products are manufactured and sold by us and our competitors, our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations results from the currency translation exposure associated with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, as well as from the exposure associated with transactions of our subsidiaries that are denominated in a currency other than the respective subsidiary's functional currency. While our financial results are reported in U.S. Dollars, the financial statements of many of our subsidiaries outside the U.S. are prepared using the local currency as the functional currency. During consolidation, these results are translated into U.S. Dollars by applying appropriate exchange rates. As a result, fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. Dollar relative to the local currencies in which our foreign subsidiaries report could cause significant fluctuations in our reported results. Moreover, as exchange rates vary, revenue and other operating results may differ materially from our expectations. The favorable effects of changes in currency exchange rates increased our 2017 revenues. 17. Table of Contents. by approximately $19.6 million, or 1.2%, while unfavorable foreign currency effects decreased our 2016 revenues by approximately $8.3 million, or 0.5%, respectively. Adjustments resulting from financial statement translations are included as a separate component of shareholders' equity. In the year ended December 31, 2017, we recorded net gains from currency translation adjustments of $97.1 million. In the year ended December 31, 2016, we recorded net losses from currency translation adjustments of $27.6 million.. Additionally, to the extent monetary assets and liabilities, including cash and debt, are held in a different currency than the reporting subsidiary's functional currency, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may have a significant impact on our reported financial results, and may lead to increased earnings volatility. We may record significant gains or losses related to both the translation of assets and liabilities held by our subsidiaries into local currencies and the remeasurement of inter-company receivables and loan balances.. Unfavorable economic or political conditions in the countries in which we operate may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition.. Our businesses and results of operations are affected by international, national and regional economic and political conditions. Our businesses or financial results may be adversely impacted by unfavorable changes in economic or political conditions in the countries and markets in which we operate, including, among others, adverse changes in interest rates or tax rates, volatility in financial and commodity markets, contraction in the availability of credit in the marketplace, and changes in capital spending patterns.. Our revenue from U.S. operations represented approximately 25% and 27% of total consolidated revenue for fiscal 2017 and 2016, respectively. Our revenue from operations in Europe represented approximately 38% and 36% of total consolidated revenue for the corresponding periods. Our revenue from operations in the Asia Pacific region represented approximately 29% and 28% of total consolidated revenue for the corresponding periods. Economic factors that could adversely influence demand for the Company's products include uncertainty about global economic conditions leading to reduced levels of investment, changes in government spending levels and/or priorities, the size and availability of government budgets, customers' and suppliers' access to credit and other macroeconomic factors affecting government, academic or industrial spending behavior. Slower economic growth or a deterioration in economic conditions could result in a decrease in government funding for scientific research, a delay in orders from current or potential customers or a reduction in purchases of our products.. We cannot predict how changes in economic conditions or political instability will affect our customers and suppliers or how any negative impact on our customers and suppliers might adversely impact our business results or financial condition.. The effect of comprehensive U.S. tax reform legislation is uncertain.. On December 22, 2017, the President of the United States signed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or the 2017 Tax Act, which enacted a wide range of changes to the U.S. income tax system, many of which differ significantly from the provisions of the previous U.S. tax law. The 2017 Tax Act, among other things, permanently reduces the U.S. corporate income tax rate to 21% beginning in 2018 and provides for more general changes to the taxation of corporations, including changes to the deductibility of interest expense, the adoption of a modified territorial tax system, assessing a repatriation tax or \"toll-charge\" on undistributed earnings and profits of U.S.-owned foreign corporations and broadening the corporate tax base through the elimination or reduction of deductions, exclusions and credits. We have not yet completed our assessment of the tax effects associated with the enactment of the 2017 Tax Act; however, reasonable estimates have been made of the effects of the 2017 Tax Act on the. 18. Table of Contents. Company's existing deferred tax balances and the one-time transition tax on undistributed earnings and profits of our foreign subsidiaries. Changes in the tax rates and laws are accounted for in the period of enactment and these estimates are reflected in our financial statements for the period ended December 31, 2017.. The actual results of the implementation of the 2017 Tax Act may materially differ from our current estimate due to, among other things, further guidance that may be issued by U.S. tax authorities or regulatory bodies, including the SEC and the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) to interpret the 2017 Tax Act. We will continue to analyze the 2017 Tax Act and any additional guidance that may be issued and finalize the full effects of applying the new legislation in future periods. Any revisions to our current estimates could materially affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial position.. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from international sales and are subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries.. International sales account, and are expected to continue to account, for a significant portion of our total revenues. Our revenue from non-U.S. operations represented approximately 75% and 73% of our total consolidated revenue for fiscal 2017 and 2016, respectively. Our international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a variety of risks associated with conducting business internationally, many of which are beyond our control. These risks, which may adversely affect our ability to achieve and maintain profitability and our ability to sell our products internationally, include:. <U+0095> changes in foreign currency translation rates;    <U+0095> changes in regulatory requirements;    <U+0095> legislation and regulation, including tariffs, relating to the import or export of high technology products;     <U+0095> the imposition of government controls;    <U+0095> political and economic instability, including international hostilities, acts of terrorism and governmental restrictions, inflation, trade relationships and military and political alliances;    <U+0095> costs and risks of deploying systems in foreign countries;    <U+0095> compliance with export laws and controls and trade embargoes in multiple jurisdictions;    <U+0095> limited intellectual property rights;    <U+0095> the burden of complying with a wide variety of complex foreign laws and treaties, including unfavorable labor regulations, specifically those applicable to our European operations; and    <U+0095> compliance with U.S. and local laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies abroad, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and local anti-bribery laws.. We must also comply with the recently enacted European Union General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). All European Union member states must comply with GDPR by May 2018. The goal of the regulation is to increase individual rights and protections for personal data located in or originating from the European Union. GDPR is extraterritorial in that it applies to all business within the European Union and any business is located outside of the European Union that processes personal data of individuals located within the European Union. There are significant fines associated with non-compliance.. While the impact of these factors is difficult to predict, any one or more of these factors could adversely affect our operations in the future.. 19. Table of Contents. If we are not able to successfully integrate the businesses we acquire through mergers, acquisitions or strategic alliances, we may not be able to realize all of the cost savings and other benefits that we expect to result from the transactions and our financial results may be different than expected.. Our strategy includes expanding our technology base and product offerings through selected mergers, acquisitions and strategic alliances. For example, from 2015 to December 31, 2017, we have acquired 13 businesses to expand our technologies and product offerings.. Successful integration of the businesses we acquire involves a number of risks, including, among others, risks related to:. <U+0095> coordinating or consolidating geographically separate organizations and integrating personnel with different business backgrounds and corporate cultures;    <U+0095> integrating previously autonomous departments in sales and marketing, distribution, accounting and administrative functions, and information and management systems;    <U+0095> diversion of resources and management time;    <U+0095> disruption of our ongoing business;    <U+0095> potential impairment of relationships with customers as a result of changes in management or otherwise arising out of such transactions; and     <U+0095> retention of key employees of the acquired businesses within the first one to two years after the acquisition, including the risk that they may compete with us subsequently.. We may have difficulty developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired company or business in a way that enhances the performance of our combined businesses or product lines. As a result, we may not realize the value from expected synergies. Acquisitions have resulted, and may in the future result, in unexpected significant costs and expenses. In the future, we may be required to record charges to earnings during the period if we determine there is an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets, up to the full amount of the value of the assets.. It may be difficult for us to implement our strategies for improving margins, profitability and cash flow.. We are pursuing a number of strategies to improve our financial performance, including implementing various productivity improvement initiatives at both BSI and BEST in an effort to streamline our operations. These initiatives include the outsourcing of manufacturing activities, consolidating, transferring or ceasing operations at certain facilities; applying lean manufacturing and six sigma concepts to our operations, implementing ERP and other information technology systems and applying a shared service approach to various functions.. We may not be able to successfully implement these strategies, and these efforts may not result in the expected improvement in our margins, profitability or cash flow. Anticipated benefits to our operating and financial performance might be reduced or delayed as a result of difficulties in implementing these initiatives, which may include complications in the transfer of assets and production knowledge, loss of key employees and/or customers, the disruption of ongoing business and possible inconsistencies in standards, controls and procedures. Implementation costs also might exceed our expectations and further cost reduction measures might become necessary, resulting in additional future charges. Our ability to successfully implement these strategies and achieve our objectives will also depend on our ability to identify, attract and retain management and other personnel with the skills and experience needed to effectively manage the process and drive our operating performance improvement during and after implementation of our improvement initiatives.. 20. Table of Contents. These improvement strategies may also have unintended consequences, such as attrition beyond our intended reduction in workforce, reduced employee morale and loss of customer relationships. We also may undertake additional restructuring activities in the future. Because of these and other factors, we cannot predict whether we will realize the purpose and anticipated benefits of our restructuring and related measures, and if we do not, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.. Goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets are subject to impairment.. We have recorded goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets that must be periodically evaluated for potential impairment. We assess the realizability of the reported goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets annually, as well as whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the assets may be impaired. These events or circumstances generally include operating losses or a significant decline in the earnings associated with the reporting unit these assets are reported within. A decline in our stock price and market capitalization may also cause us to consider whether goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets may require an impairment assessment. Our ability to realize the value of these assets will depend on the future cash flows of the reporting unit in addition to how well we integrate the businesses we acquire. We have recorded impairment losses of $1.1 million, $0.8 million and $4.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.. If our products fail to achieve and sustain sufficient market acceptance across their broad intended range of applications, we will not generate expected revenue.. Our business strategy depends on our ability to successfully commercialize a broad range of products based on our technology platforms, including magnetic resonance technology, pre-clinical imaging technology, mass spectrometry technology, X-ray technology, atomic force microscopy technology, stylus and optical metrology technology, fluorescence microscopy technology, infrared technology and superconducting magnet technologies for use in a variety of life science, chemistry and materials analysis applications. Some of our products have only recently been commercially launched and have achieved only limited sales to date. The commercial success of our products depends on obtaining and expanding market acceptance by a diverse array of industrial, academic, clinical, pharmaceutical, biotechnology, applied, medical research and governmental customers around the world. We may fail to achieve or sustain substantial market acceptance for our products across the full range of our intended applications or in one or more of our principal intended applications. Any such failure could decrease our sales and revenue. To succeed, we must convince substantial numbers of potential customers to invest in new systems or replace their existing techniques with techniques employing our systems. Limited funding available for capital acquisitions by our customers, as well as our customers' own internal purchasing approval policies, could hinder market acceptance of our products. Our intended customers may be reluctant to make the substantial capital investment generally needed to acquire our products or to incur the training and other costs involved with replacing their existing systems with our products. We also may not be able to convince our intended customers that our systems are an attractive and cost-effective alternative to other technologies and systems for the acquisition, analysis and management of molecular, cellular and microscopic information. Additionally, if ethical and other concerns surrounding the use of genetic information, gene therapy or genetically modified organisms become widespread, we may have less demand for our products. Because of these and other factors, our products may fail to gain or sustain market acceptance.. Our products compete in markets that are subject to rapid technological change, and one or more of the technologies underlying our products could be made obsolete by new technology.. The market for discovery and analysis tools is characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new product introductions. Rapidly changing technology could make some or our entire. 21. Table of Contents. product lines obsolete unless we are able to continually improve our existing products and develop new products. Because substantially all of our products are based on our technology platforms, including magnetic resonance technology, mass spectrometry technology, X-ray technology, atomic force microscopy technology, fluorescence microscopy technology, stylus and optical metrology technology and infrared technology, we are particularly vulnerable to any technological advances that would make these techniques obsolete as the basis for analytical systems in any of our markets. To meet the evolving needs of our customers, we must rapidly and continually enhance our current and planned products and services and develop and introduce new products and services. In addition, our product lines are based on complex technologies that are subject to rapid change as new technologies are developed and introduced in the marketplace. We may have difficulty in keeping abreast of the rapid changes affecting each of the different markets we serve or intend to serve. If we fail to develop and introduce products in a timely manner in response to changing technology, market demands or the requirements of our customers, our product sales may decline, and we could experience significant losses. Currently in our backlog, we have orders totaling $112.0 million for ultra-high field magnets. If we are unable to reach the technical feasibility for these magnets, we will be unable to fulfill customer orders where alternate arrangements have not been provided for in customer contracts. Additional risks include extraordinary warranty expenses, rework and potential inventory write-offs.. Our business could be harmed if our collaborations fail to advance our product development.. Demand for our products will depend, in part, upon the extent to which our collaborations with pharmaceutical, biotechnology and proteomics companies are successful in developing, or helping us to develop, new products and new applications for our existing products. In addition, we collaborate with academic institutions and government research laboratories on product development. We have limited or no control over the resources that any collaborator may devote to our products. Any of our present or future collaborators may not perform their obligations as expected. If we fail to enter into or maintain appropriate collaboration agreements, or if any of these events occur, we may not be able to develop some of our new products, which could materially impede our ability to generate revenue or profits.. We face substantial competition.. We face substantial competition in our industries and we expect that competition in all of our markets will increase further. Currently, our principal competition comes from established companies providing products using existing technologies that perform many of the same functions for which we market our products. A number of our competitors have expanded their market share in recent years through business combinations. Other companies also may choose to enter our fields in the future. Our competitors may develop or market products that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or future products or that may render our products obsolete. Competition has in the past subjected, and is likely in the future to subject, our products to pricing pressure. Many of our competitors have more experience in the market and substantially greater financial, operational, marketing and technical resources than we do, which could give them a competitive advantage in areas such as research and development, production, marketing and distribution. Our ability to compete successfully will depend, in part, on our ability to develop proprietary products that reach the market in a timely manner and are technologically superior to, less expensive than, or more cost-effective than, other currently marketed products.. If we lose our strategic partners, our marketing and sales efforts could be impaired.. A substantial portion of our sales of selected products consists of sales to third parties who incorporate our products into their systems. These third parties are responsible for the marketing and sales of their systems. We have little or no control over their marketing and sales activities or how they. 22. Table of Contents. use their resources. Our present or future strategic partners may or may not purchase sufficient quantities of products from us or perform appropriate marketing and sales activities. In addition, if we are unable to maintain our relationships with strategic partners, our businesses may suffer. Failures by our present or future strategic partners, or our inability to maintain or enter into new arrangements with strategic partners for product distribution, could materially impede the growth of our businesses and our ability to generate sufficient revenue and profits.. We face risks related to sales through distributors and other third parties that we do not control, which could harm our business.. We sell some products through third party agents, including distributors and value-added resellers. This exposes us to various risks, including competitive pressure, concentration of sales volumes, credit risks, and compliance risks. We may rely on one or a few key distributors for a product or market, and the loss of these distributors could reduce our revenue and net earnings. Distributors may also face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm our collection of accounts receivables. Risks related to our use of distributors may reduce sales, increase expenses, and weaken our competitive position. Moreover, violations of the FCPA or similar anti-bribery laws by distributors or other third party agents could materially and adversely impact our business and results of operations.. Dependence on contract manufacturing may adversely affect our ability to bring products to market and damage our reputation.. As part of our efforts to streamline our operations and reduce our operating costs, we outsource aspects of our manufacturing processes and continue to evaluate additional outsourcing. If our contract manufacturers fail to perform their obligations in a timely manner or at satisfactory quality levels, our ability to bring products to market and our reputation could suffer. For example, during a market upturn, our contract manufacturers may be unable to meet our demand requirements, which may preclude us from fulfilling our customers' orders on a timely basis. The ability of these manufacturers to perform is largely outside our control. Additionally, changing or replacing our contract manufacturers could cause disruptions or delays. Problems with outsourced manufacturing could result in lower revenues and unexecuted efficiencies, and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. If investment in life and material science research spending declines, our ability to generate revenue may suffer.. We are dependent, both directly and indirectly, upon general investment in life science research, particularly in the research and development budgets of the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, and in material science research as well as upon the financial condition and funding priorities of various governments and government agencies. Since our inception, both we and our academic collaborators and customers have benefited from various governmental contracts and research grants. Whether we or our academic collaborators will continue to be able to attract these grants depends not only on the quality of our products, but also on general spending patterns of public institutions.. Any reduction in the capital resources or government funding of our customers could reduce our sales and impede our ability to generate revenue.. A significant portion of our sales are capital purchases by our customers. The spending policies of our customers could have a significant effect on the demand for our products. These policies are based on a wide variety of factors, including the resources available to make purchases, the spending priorities among various types of equipment, policies regarding spending during recessionary periods and changes in the political climate. Any changes in capital spending or changes in the capital budgets of our. 23. Table of Contents. customers could significantly reduce demand for our products. The capital resources of our life science and other corporate customers may be limited by the availability of equity or debt financing. Any significant decline in research and development expenditures by our life science and material science customers could significantly decrease our sales. In addition, a substantial portion of our sales are to non-profit and government entities, which are dependent on government support for scientific research. Any decline in this support could decrease the ability of these customers to purchase our products.. Disruptions at any of our manufacturing facilities could adversely affect our business.. We have manufacturing facilities located in the United States, Europe and Israel. Many of our products are developed and manufactured at single locations, with limited alternate facilities. If we experience any significant disruption of those facilities for any reason, such as strikes or other labor unrest, power interruptions, fire, earthquakes, or other events beyond our control, we may be unable to manufacture the relevant products at previous levels or at all. A reduction or interruption in manufacturing could harm our customer relationships, impede our ability to generate revenues from our backlog or obtain new orders and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. If employees were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage or interruption, our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity could be materially adversely affected.. Some of our employees are represented by workers' councils and labor unions in certain jurisdictions, primarily in Germany and France. Although we believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory, if disputes with these employees arise, or if our workers engage in a strike or other work stoppage or interruption, we could experience a significant disruption of, or inefficiencies in, our operations or incur higher labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. Our operations are dependent upon a limited number of suppliers and contract manufacturers.. We currently purchase components used in our products from a limited number of outside suppliers. Our reliance on a limited number of suppliers could result in time delays associated with redesigning a product due to an inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components and reduced control over pricing, quality and timely delivery. Any of these factors could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. In particular, our X-ray microanalysis business, which manufactures and sells accessories for electron microscopes, is partially dependent on cooperation from larger manufacturers of electron microscopes. Additionally, our elemental analysis business purchases certain optical detectors from a single supplier, PerkinElmer, Inc., the sole supplier of these detector components. Bruker CALID purchases detectors and power supplies from sole or limited source suppliers and its focal plane array detectors from a single supplier, Lockheed Martin Corporation. Similarly, Bruker BioSpin obtains various components from sole or limited source suppliers and BEST obtains various raw materials and uses key production equipment from sole or limited source suppliers or contract manufacturers. There are limited, if any, available alternatives to these suppliers. The existence of shortages of these components or the failure of delivery with regard to these components could have a material adverse effect upon our revenues and margins. In addition, price increases from these suppliers or contract manufacturers could have a material adverse effect upon our gross margins.. Because of the scarcity of some components, we may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of components, or we may be required to pay higher prices or to purchase components of lesser quality. Any delay or interruption in the supply of these or other components could impair our ability to manufacture and deliver our products, harm our reputation and cause a reduction in our revenues. In addition, any increase in the cost of the components that we use in our products could make our products less competitive and decrease our gross profits. We may not be able to obtain sufficient. 24. Table of Contents. quantities of required components on the same or substantially the same terms. Additionally, consolidation among our suppliers could result in other sole source suppliers for us in the future.. Supply shortages and increasing prices of raw materials could adversely affect the gross profit of the Bruker BioSpin Group and of our Bruker Energy & Supercon Technologies business.. The last few years have seen periodic supply shortages and sharp increases in the prices for various raw materials, in part due to high demand from developing countries. Bruker BioSpin and BEST rely on some of these materials for the production of their products. In particular, for its superconducting magnet production, both for the horizontal and vertical magnet series, Bruker BioSpin relies on the availability of copper, steel and the metallic raw materials for traditional low-temperature superconducting wires. Similarly, BEST relies on the availability of niobium titanium for its production of low-temperature superconducting materials and devices. Higher prices for these commodities will increase the production cost of superconducting wires and superconducting magnets and may adversely affect gross profits.. The prices of copper and certain other raw materials used for superconductors have increased significantly over the last decade. Since copper is a main constituent of low temperature superconductors, this may affect the price of superconducting wire. This type of increase would have an immediate effect on the production costs of superconducting magnets and may negatively affect the profit margins for those products. In addition, an increase in raw material cost affects the production cost of the superconducting wire produced by BEST and of superconducting wire used by Bruker BioSpin.. Bruker BioSpin and its customers also rely on liquid helium to operate its superconducting magnets. Helium is controlled by the Federal Helium Reserve and is subject to price changes. Shortages of liquid helium associated with federal price controls could have an adverse impact on producing and operating BioSpin's superconducting magnets and may also negatively impact the profit margins for those products.. Regulations related to \"conflict minerals\" may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products.. Regulations require disclosures by public companies of specified minerals, known as conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured. This requires the performance of due diligence to determine whether or not such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo or an adjoining country. These regulations could affect sourcing at competitive prices and availability in sufficient quantities of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products, including tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten. The number of suppliers who provide conflict-free minerals may be limited. In addition, there may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as costs of possible changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. As our supply chain is complex and we use contract manufacturers for some of our products, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the relevant minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our reputation. In addition, we may encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict-free, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage if we are unable to do so.. 25. Table of Contents. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, which could lead to a loss of investor confidence in our financial statements and have an adverse effect on our stock price.. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable and accurate financial statements and to effectively prevent fraud. We devote significant resources and time to comply with the internal control over financial reporting requirements of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 and continue to enhance our controls. However, we cannot be certain that we will be able to prevent future significant deficiencies or material weaknesses. In the year ended December 31, 2017, we remediated the previously disclosed material weakness in our internal controls over the accounting for income taxes. Inadequate internal controls could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on investor confidence in our financial statements, the trading price of our stock and our access to capital.. Our manufacture and sale of products could lead to product liability claims for which we could have substantial liability.. The manufacture and sale of our products expose us to product liability claims if any of our products cause injury or are found otherwise unsuitable during manufacturing, marketing, sale or customer use. In particular, if one of our CBRNE detection products malfunctions, this could lead to civilian or military casualties in a time of unrest, exposing us to increased potential for high-profile liability. If our CBRNE detection products malfunction by generating a false-positive to a potential threat, we could be exposed to liabilities associated with actions taken that otherwise would not have been required. Additionally, the nuclear magnetic resonance, research magnetic resonance imaging, Fourier transform mass spectrometry and certain electron paramagnetic resonance magnets of Bruker BioSpin utilize high magnet fields and cryogenics to operate at approximately 4 Kelvin, the temperature of liquid helium. There is an inherent risk of potential product liability due to the existence of these high magnetic fields, associated stray fields outside the magnet, and the handling of the cryogens associated with superconducting magnets. In addition, our MALDI Biotyper product has an IVD-CE mark and is used for the identification of microorganisms. Misidentification or a false-negative of certain bacteria, yeasts or fungi could lead to inappropriate treatment for patients, and could expose us to product liability claims.. A successful product liability claim brought against us in excess of, or outside the coverage of, our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to maintain product liability insurance on acceptable terms, if at all, and insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities.. Responding to claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of hazardous chemicals and radioactive and biological materials which we use could be time consuming and costly.. We use controlled hazardous and radioactive materials in our business and generate wastes that are regulated as hazardous wastes under U.S. federal, and Massachusetts, California, New Jersey, Washington and Wisconsin state, environmental and atomic energy regulatory laws and under equivalent provisions of law in those and other jurisdictions in which our research and manufacturing facilities are located. Our use of these substances and materials is subject to stringent, and periodically changing, regulation that can impose costly compliance obligations on us and have the potential to adversely affect our manufacturing activities. The risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. If an accident with these substances occurs, we could be held liable for any damages that result, in addition to incurring clean-up costs and liabilities, which can be substantial. Additionally, an accident could damage our research and manufacturing facilities resulting in delays and increased costs.. 26. Table of Contents. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations which may impose significant compliance or other costs on us.. Our manufacturing, product development and research and development operations and processes involve the controlled use of certain hazardous materials. In addition, we own and/or lease a number of facilities, some of which have been in operation for many decades, where we or others may have used substances or generated and disposed of wastes which are considered hazardous or may be considered hazardous in the future. We also have acquired various companies which historically may have used certain hazardous materials and which may have owned and/or leased facilities at which hazardous materials have been used. For all of these reasons, we are subject to federal, state, foreign, and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, transportation, handling, treatment, remediation, and disposal of hazardous materials and certain waste products. We have potential liability under these laws and regulations with respect to the remediation of past contamination in certain of the facilities we now own or lease. Additionally, in the future our facilities and the disposal sites owned by others to which we send or sent waste, may be identified as contaminated and require remediation. Accordingly, we may become subject to additional compliance costs or environmental liabilities which may be significant and could materially harm our results of operations or financial condition.. In addition to the risks applicable to our life science and materials analysis products, our CBRNE detection products are subject to a number of additional risks, including lengthy product development and contract negotiation periods and certain risks inherent in long-term government contracts.. Our CBRNE detection products are subject to many of the same risks associated with our life science products, including vulnerability to rapid technological change, dependence on mass spectrometry and other technologies and substantial competition. In addition, our CBRNE detection products and certain FT-IR products are generally sold to government agencies under long-term contracts. These contracts generally involve lengthy pre-contract negotiations and product development. We may be required to devote substantial working capital and other resources prior to obtaining product orders. As a result, we may incur substantial costs before we recognize revenue from these products. Moreover, in return for larger, longer-term contracts, our customers for these products often demand more stringent acceptance criteria. These criteria may also cause delays in our ability to recognize revenue from sales of these products. Furthermore, we may not be able to accurately predict in advance our costs to fulfill our obligations under these long-term contracts. If we fail to accurately predict our costs, due to inflation or other factors, we could incur significant losses. Also, the presence or absence of such contracts may cause substantial variation in our results of operations between fiscal periods and, as a result, our results of operations for any given fiscal period may not be predictive of our results for subsequent fiscal periods. The resulting uncertainty may have an adverse impact on our stock price.. We are subject to existing and potential additional regulation and government inquiry, which can impose burdens on our operations and narrow the markets for our products.. We are subject, both directly and indirectly, to the adverse impact of existing and potential future government regulation of our operations and markets. For example, exportation of our products, particularly our CBRNE detection products, is subject to strict regulatory control in a number of jurisdictions. The failure to satisfy export control criteria or obtain necessary clearances could delay or prevent shipment of products, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability.. In addition, as a result of our international operations, we are subject to compliance with various laws and regulations, including the FCPA and local anti-bribery laws in the jurisdictions in which we do business, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries or agents from engaging in bribery or making improper payments to foreign officials or their agents. The FCPA also requires proper record keeping and characterization of such payments in our reports filed with the SEC.. 27. Table of Contents. Despite maintaining policies and procedures that require our employees to comply with these laws and our standards of ethical conduct, we cannot ensure that these policies and procedures will always protect us from intentional, reckless or negligent acts committed by our employees or agents. For example, in 2014 we resolved an investigation by the SEC into possible violations of the FCPA arising from past conduct of our subsidiaries operating in China. In connection with the resolution, we consented to the entry of an administrative cease and desist order by the SEC concerning violations of the books and records and internal controls provisions of the FCPA and paid an aggregate amount of approximately $2.4 million, consisting of $1.7 million in disgorgement, $0.3 million in prejudgment interest, and a $0.4 million penalty. We also incurred legal and professional fees associated with the investigation and settlement of approximately $25.1 million. Additionally, in 2017 we resolved an investigation of the Korea Fair Trade Commission (\"KFTC\") into improper bidding by Bruker Korea Co., Ltd. (\"Bruker Korea\") and several other companies in connection with bids for sales of X-ray systems in 2010 and 2012. In connection with these matters, various Korean governmental entities imposed suspensions on Bruker Korea, with overlapping suspension periods ranging from three to six months. During the periods of these suspensions, which expired in 2017, Bruker Korea was prohibited from bidding for or conducting sales to Korean governmental agencies.. On October 19, 2017, the Company received a notice of investigation and subpoena to produce documents from the Division of Enforcement of the SEC. The subpoena seeks information related to an employee terminated as part of a restructuring and certain matters involving the Company's policies and accounting practices related to revenue recognition and restructuring activities, as well as related financial reporting, disclosure and compliance matters, since January 1, 2013. The subpoena also seeks information concerning, among other things, the Company's previously identified material weakness in internal controls over the accounting for income taxes, related financial reporting matters and certain payments for non-employee travel expenses. The Company is producing documents in response to the subpoena and intends to continue to cooperate fully with the SEC's investigation. At this time, the Company is unable to predict the duration, scope or outcome of this investigation.. Moreover, the life sciences industry, which is the market for our principal products, has historically been heavily regulated. There are, for example, laws in several jurisdictions restricting research in genetic engineering, which can operate to narrow our markets. Given the evolving nature of this industry, legislative bodies or regulatory authorities may adopt additional regulation that adversely affects our market opportunities. Our business is also directly affected by a wide variety of government regulations applicable to business enterprises generally and to companies operating in the life sciences industry in particular.. Our clinical products are subject to regulation by the FDA. These regulations govern a wide variety of product related activities, from quality management, design and development to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. If we or any of our suppliers or distributors fail to comply with FDA and other applicable regulatory requirements, or are perceived to potentially have failed to comply, we may face, among other things, warning letters; adverse publicity affecting both us and our customers; investigations or notices of non-compliance, fines, injunctions, and civil penalties; import or export restrictions; partial suspensions or total shutdown of production facilities or the imposition of operating restrictions; increased difficulty in obtaining required FDA clearances or approvals or foreign equivalents; seizures or recalls of our products or those of our customers; or the inability to sell such products. Any such FDA actions could disrupt our business and operations, lead to significant remedial costs and have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations.. We have been, are, and expect to be in the future, subject to inquiries from the government agencies that enforce these regulations, including the U.S. Department of State, the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the U.S. Department of Justice, the Securities and Exchange. 28. Table of Contents. Commission, the Federal Trade Commission, the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the U.S. Department of Defense, among others, as well as from state or foreign governments and their departments and agencies. As a result, from time to time, the attention of our management and other resources may be diverted to attend to these inquiries. In addition, failure to comply with these regulations or obtain or maintain necessary permits and licenses could result in a variety of fines or other censures or an interruption in our business operations which may have a negative impact on our ability to generate revenues and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our success depends on our ability to operate without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others.. Our commercial success depends on avoiding the infringement of other parties' patents and proprietary rights as well as avoiding the breach of any licenses relating to our technologies and products. Given that there may be patents of which we are unaware, particularly in the United States where patent applications are confidential, avoidance of patent infringement may be difficult. Various third parties hold patents which may relate to our technology, and we may be found in the future to infringe these or other patents or proprietary rights of third parties, either with products we are currently marketing or developing or with new products which we may develop in the future. If a third party holding rights under a patent successfully asserts an infringement claim with respect to any of our current or future products, we may be prevented from manufacturing or marketing our infringing product in the country or countries covered by the patent we infringe, unless we can obtain a license from the patent holder. We may not be able to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, especially if the patent holder is a competitor. In addition, even if we can obtain the license, it may be non-exclusive, which will permit others to practice the same technology licensed to us. We also may be required to pay substantial damages to the patent holder in the event of an infringement. Under some circumstances in the United States these damages could include damages equal to triple the actual damages the patent holder incurs. If we have supplied infringing products to third parties for marketing by them or licensed third parties to manufacture, use or market infringing products, we may be obligated to indemnify these third parties for any damages they may be required to pay to the patent holder and for any losses the third parties may sustain themselves as the result of lost sales or license payments they are required to make to the patent holder. Any successful infringement action brought against us may also adversely affect marketing of the infringing product in other markets not covered by the infringement action, as well as our marketing of other products based on similar technology. Furthermore, we will suffer adverse consequences from a successful infringement action against us even if the action is subsequently reversed on appeal, nullified through another action or resolved by settlement with the patent holder. The damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may be significant. As a result, any successful infringement action against us may harm our business.. If we are unable to effectively protect our intellectual property, third parties may use our technology, which would impair our ability to compete in our markets.. Our continued success will depend in significant part on our ability to obtain and maintain meaningful patent protection for our products throughout the world. We rely on patents to protect a significant part of our intellectual property and to enhance our competitive position. However, our presently pending or future patent applications may not issue as patents, and any patent previously issued to us may be challenged, invalidated, held unenforceable or circumvented. Furthermore, the claims in patents which have been issued, or which may be issued to us in the future, may not be sufficiently broad to prevent third parties from producing competing products similar to our products. In addition, the laws of various foreign countries in which we compete may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Failure to obtain adequate patent protection for our proprietary technology could materially impair our ability to be commercially competitive.. 29. Table of Contents. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on the protection of trade secrets, know-how and confidential and proprietary information. To maintain the confidentiality of trade secrets and proprietary information, we generally seek to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and strategic partners upon the commencement of a relationship with us. However, we may not obtain these agreements in all circumstances. In the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of this information, these agreements, even if obtained, may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other confidential information. In addition, adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of this information. The loss or exposure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information would impair our competitive advantages and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and future growth prospects. Furthermore, others may have, or may in the future independently develop, substantially similar or superior know-how and technology.. We may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents that are brought by us which could be expensive and time consuming and, if determined adversely, could adversely affect our patent position.. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate patent litigation against third parties, and we may be similarly sued by others. We may also become subject to interference proceedings conducted in the patent and trademark offices of various countries to determine the priority of inventions. The defense and prosecution, if necessary, of intellectual property suits, interference proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings is costly and diverts our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. We may not prevail in any of these suits. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing.. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments in the litigation. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial negative effect on the trading price of our common stock.. We rely on information technology to support our operations and reporting environments. A security failure of that technology could impact our ability to operate our businesses effectively, adversely affect our financial results, damage our reputation and expose us to potential liability or litigation.. We use information systems to carry out our operations and maintain our business records. Some systems are internally managed and some are maintained by third-party service providers. We and our service providers employ what we believe are adequate security measures. Our ability to conduct business could be materially and adversely affected if these systems or resources are compromised, damaged or fail. This could be a result of a cyber-incident, natural disaster, hardware or software corruption, failure or error, telecommunications system failure, service provider error or failure, intentional or unintentional personnel actions or other disruption.. In the ordinary course of business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, other proprietary information and personally identifiable information. If this data is compromised, destroyed or inappropriately disclosed, it could have a material adverse effect, including damage to our reputation, loss of customers, significant expenses to address and resolve the issues, or litigation or other proceedings by affected individuals, business partners or regulatory authorities.. 30. Table of Contents. Our debt may adversely affect our cash flow and may restrict our investment opportunities or limit our activities.. As of December 31, 2017, we had outstanding an aggregate principal amount of debt totaling approximately $415.6 million, including $220.0 million of senior unsecured notes, $195.0 million of long-term borrowings under our revolving loan facility and $1.3 million of other debt, offset by unamortized debt issuance costs for the senior unsecured notes of $0.7 million. We also had the ability to borrow an additional $303.9 million available under our existing credit facility. Most of our outstanding debt is in the United States and there are substantial cash requirements in the United States to service debt interest obligations, fund operations, capital expenditures and our declared dividends and finance potential acquisitions or share repurchases. Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations and meet our other liquidity needs depends on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt obligations or provide sufficient funds for our other objectives. If we are unable to service our debt or obtain additional financing, we may be forced to delay strategic acquisitions, capital expenditures or research and development expenditures or suspend our dividend payments and share repurchases. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. Furthermore, a majority of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments is generated from foreign operations, with $405.8 million, or 92.4% held by foreign subsidiaries as of December 31, 2017. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted if we are unable to maintain a sufficient level of cash flow in the United States to address our funding requirements through cash from operations and timely repatriation of cash from overseas or other sources obtained at an acceptable cost.. Additionally, the agreements governing our debt require that we maintain certain financial ratios related to maximum leverage and minimum interest coverage and contain negative covenants, including among others, restrictions on liens, indebtedness of the Company and its subsidiaries, asset sales, dividends and transactions with affiliates. Our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control such as foreign currency translation rates and interest rates. Our failure to comply with any of these restrictions or covenants may result in an event of default under the applicable debt instrument, which could permit acceleration of the debt under the facility and require us to prepay the debt before its scheduled due date.. Changes in our effective income tax rate could adversely affect our results of operations.. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions and our domestic and international tax liabilities are largely dependent upon the distribution of income among these different jurisdictions. Various factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our effective income tax rate. These factors include interpretations of existing tax laws, the accounting for stock options and other share-based compensation, changes in tax laws and rates, including the recently enacted Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, future levels of research and development spending, changes in accounting standards, changes in the mix of earnings in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate, the outcome of examinations by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities, the accuracy of our estimates for unrecognized tax benefits and realization of deferred tax assets and changes in overall levels of pre-tax earnings.. Various international tax risks could adversely affect our earnings and cash flows.. We are subject to international tax risks. We could be subject to double taxation on income related to operations in certain countries that do not have tax treaties with the country of the trading partner. In addition, we may have a higher effective income tax rate than that of other companies in our industry if losses incurred by one operating company are not available to offset the income of an. 31. Table of Contents. operating company located in another country. Also, distributions of earnings and other payments received from our subsidiaries may be subject to withholding taxes imposed by the countries where they are operating or are incorporated. If these foreign countries do not have income tax treaties with the United States or the countries where our subsidiaries are incorporated, we could be subject to high rates of withholding taxes on these distributions and payments. Additionally, the amount of the credit that we may claim against our U.S. federal income tax for foreign income taxes paid or accrued is subject to many limitations which may significantly restrict our ability to claim a credit for all of the foreign taxes we pay.. We currently have reserves established for potential tax liabilities. If these reserves are challenged, and we are unable to successfully defend our tax positions, a negative impact to our cash flows could result.. The unpredictability and fluctuation of our quarterly results may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.. Our revenues and results of operations have in the past and will in the future vary from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside our control and any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. The primary factors that may affect us include the following:. <U+0095> the timing of sales of our products and services;    <U+0095> the timing of recognizing revenue and deferred revenue under U.S. GAAP;    <U+0095> changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors;    <U+0095> increases in sales and marketing, product development or administration expenses;    <U+0095> the mix of services provided by us and third-party contractors;    <U+0095> our ability to attain and maintain quality levels for our products;    <U+0095> costs related to acquisitions of technology or businesses; and    <U+0095> the effectiveness of transactions entered into to hedge the risks associated with foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations.. We can experience quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in our operating results as a result of various factors, some of which are outside our control, such as:. <U+0095> the timing of governmental stimulus programs and academic research budgets;    <U+0095> the time it takes between the date customer orders and deposits are received, systems are shipped and accepted by our customers and full payment is received;    <U+0095> the time it takes to satisfy local customs requirements and other export/import requirements;    <U+0095> the time it takes for customers to construct or prepare their facilities for our products; and    <U+0095> the time required to obtain governmental licenses.. These factors have in the past affected the amount and timing of revenue recognized on sales of our products and receipt of related payments and will continue to do so in the future. Accordingly, our operating results in any particular quarter may not necessarily be an indication of any future quarter's operating performance.. Historically we have higher levels of revenue in the fourth quarter of the year compared to the first, second and third quarters, which we believe is primarily the result of our customers' budgeting cycles. Quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. It is likely that in some future quarters, our results of operations. 32. Table of Contents. may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In this event, the price of our common stock may fall.. Existing stockholders have significant influence over us.. As of March 12, 2018, Laukien family members, including our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Frank Laukien and Director Joerg Laukien, owned, in the aggregate, approximately 35.7% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders will be able to exercise substantial influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company and will make some transactions difficult to accomplish without the support of these stockholders.. Other companies may have difficulty acquiring us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders, due to provisions under our corporate charter and bylaws, as well as Delaware law.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, as amended, and our bylaws, as well as Delaware law could make it more difficult for other companies to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation, as amended, and bylaws contain the following provisions, among others, which may inhibit an acquisition of our company by a third party:. <U+0095> a staggered Board of Directors, where stockholders elect only a minority of the board each year;    <U+0095> advance notification procedures for matters to be brought before stockholder meetings;    <U+0095> a limitation on who may call stockholder meetings; and    <U+0095> the ability of our Board of Directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock without a stockholder vote."
