[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. The Company's operations and financial results are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, including those described below, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock.. Worldwide economic conditions significantly affect our industries and businesses, and economic decline can materially impact our financial results.. In times of economic uncertainty and contraction, consumers tend to have less discretionary income and to defer expenditures for discretionary items, which adversely affects our financial performance, especially in the marine businesses.  Although we have expanded the portions of our portfolio that are less susceptible to economic cycles, a portion of the business remains cyclical and sensitive to personal spending levels.  Although general economic conditions in certain international markets, including Latin America and Canada, are improving, they continue to be challenging with respect to weak currencies and commodity market impacts.. Deterioration in general economic conditions that in turn diminishes consumer confidence or discretionary income may reduce our sales, or we may decide to lower pricing for our products, thus adversely affecting our financial results, including increasing the potential for future impairment charges. Further, most of our products are used for recreation, and consumers' limited discretionary income in times of economic hardship may be diverted to other activities that occupy their time, such as other forms of recreation, religious, cultural, or community activities.  We cannot predict the timing or continued strength of global economies, either worldwide or in the specific markets in which we compete.. Failure to successfully implement our strategic plan and growth initiatives could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. Our ability to continue generating strong cash flow and profits depends partly on the sustained successful execution of our strategic plan and growth initiatives, including optimizing our business portfolio, making acquisitions, and expanding into new adjacent markets and customers. To address risks associated with our plan and growth initiatives, we have established processes to regularly review, manage, and modify our plans, and we believe we have appropriate oversight to monitor initiatives and their impact. Our strategic plan and growth initiatives require significant capital investment and management attention, however, which could result in the diversion of these resources from the core business and other business issues and opportunities. Additionally, any new initiative is subject to certain risks, including customer acceptance, competition, the ability to manufacture products on schedule and to specification, the ability to create the necessary supply chain, and/or the ability to attract and retain qualified management and other personnel.  There is no assurance that we will be able to develop and successfully implement our strategic plan and growth initiatives in a manner that achieves our strategic objectives.. An inability to make targeted acquisitions or failure to successfully integrate newly acquired businesses could negatively impact financial results.. Our growth initiatives include making strategic acquisitions, which depend on the availability of suitable targets at acceptable terms and our ability to complete the deals. In order to manage our acquisition strategy, we conduct rigorous due diligence, involve various functions, and continually review our strategy and target acquisitions, all of which we believe mitigates our acquisition risks. However, we cannot assure that acquisitions will be consummated or that, if consummated, they will be successful.  Acquisitions pose risks such as our ability to project and evaluate market demand, maximize potential synergies and cost savings; make accurate accounting estimates; and achieve anticipated business objectives. As we continue to grow, in part, through acquisitions, our success depends on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these risks.  If acquired businesses do not achieve projected results, our growth may be limited and our results adversely affected.. In addition, acquisitions present integration risks, including that the acquisition may:. • disrupt operations in core, adjacent, or acquired businesses;. • require more time than anticipated to be fully integrated into Company operations and systems;. • create more costs than projected;. • divert management attention;. • create the potential of losing customer, supplier, or other critical business relationships; and. • pose difficulties retaining employees.. If we fail to timely and successfully integrate new businesses into existing operations, we may see higher production costs, lost sales or otherwise diminished earnings and financial results.. 8. Table of Contents. There can be no assurance that strategic divestitures will provide business benefits.. As part of our strategy, we continuously evaluate our portfolio of businesses. We have previously and may in the future make changes to our portfolio, which may be material. For example, on December 5, 2017, the Company announced our intention to sell the Sea Ray businesses, including the Meridian brand. Divestitures involve risks, including difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel, disruption in our operations or businesses, finding a suitable purchaser, the diversion of management's attention from our other businesses, the potential loss of key employees, adverse effects on relationships with our dealer or supplier partners or their businesses, the erosion of employee morale or customer confidence, and the retention of contingent liabilities related to the divested business. If we do not successfully manage the risks associated with divestitures, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected as the potential strategic benefits may not be realized or may take longer to realize than expected.. Changes in currency exchange rates can adversely affect our results.. Some of our sales are denominated in a currency other than the U.S. dollar. Consequently, a strong U.S. dollar may adversely affect reported revenues. We have hedging programs in place to reduce our risk to currency fluctuations; however, we cannot hedge against all currency risks, especially over the long term.  We maintain a portion of our cost structure in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, which partially mitigates the impact of a strengthening U.S. dollar.  This includes manufacturing operations for boats in Europe and Canada, fitness equipment in Europe, and smaller outboard engines manufactured and purchased from our joint venture in Japan.  We also continue to evaluate the supply chain and cost structure for opportunities to further mitigate foreign currency risks.. We sell products manufactured in the U.S. into certain international markets in U.S. dollars, including to Canada, Europe, and Latin America. Demand for our products in these markets may be diminished by a strengthening U.S. dollar, or we may need to lower prices to remain competitive.  Some of our competitors with cost positions based outside the U.S., including Asian-based outboard engine and fitness equipment manufacturers, European-based large fiberglass boat manufacturers, and a European-based fitness equipment manufacturer, may have an improved cost position due to a strengthening U.S. dollar, which could result in pricing pressures on our products.  These factors existed throughout 2016 and 2017, but we do not believe they resulted in a material change in our competitive position.. Fiscal concerns may negatively impact worldwide credit conditions and adversely affect our industries, businesses, and financial condition.. Fiscal policy could have a material adverse impact on worldwide economic conditions, the financial markets, and availability of credit and, consequently, may negatively affect our industries, businesses, and overall financial condition. Customers often finance purchases of our products, particularly boats. Credit market conditions, while improved, are still less favorable overall than those in existence prior to the global recession in 2008. While interest rates remain relatively low and credit availability is adequate to support demand, there are fewer lenders, tighter underwriting and loan approval criteria, and greater down payment requirements.  If credit conditions worsen, and adversely affect the ability of customers to finance potential purchases at acceptable terms and interest rates, it could result in a decrease in sales or delay improvement in sales.. Dealer or distributor inability to secure adequate access to capital could adversely affect our sales.. Our dealers require adequate liquidity to finance their operations, including purchasing our products. Dealers are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that could unfavorably affect their liquidity positions, including, among other things, continued access to adequate financing sources on a timely basis on reasonable terms. These financing sources are vital to our ability to sell products through our distribution network, particularly to boat and engine dealers.  Entities affiliated with Wells Fargo & Company, including BAC, the Company's 49 percent owned joint venture, finance a significant portion of our boat and engine sales to dealers through floorplan financing to marine dealers.. Many factors continue to influence the availability and terms of financing that our dealer floorplan financing providers offer, including:. • their ability to access certain capital markets, such as the securitization and the commercial paper markets, and to fund their operations in a cost effective manner;. • the performance of their overall credit portfolios;. • their willingness to accept the risks associated with lending to marine dealers; and. • the overall creditworthiness of those dealers.. 9. Table of Contents. Our sales could be adversely affected if financing terms change unfavorably or if BAC were to be terminated. This could require dealers to find alternative sources of financing, including our direct financing to dealers, which could require additional capital to fund the associated receivables.. Our financial results could be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain effective distribution.. We rely on third-party dealers and distributors to sell most of our products, particularly in the marine businesses. Maintaining a reliable network of dealers is essential to our success. We face competition from other manufacturers in attracting and retaining distributors and independent boat dealers. A significant deterioration in the number or effectiveness of our dealers and distributors could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. Although at present we believe dealer health to be generally favorable, weakening demand for marine products could hurt our dealers' financial performance. In particular, reduced cash flow from decreases in sales and tightening credit markets may impair dealers' ability to fund operations. Inability to fund operations can force dealers to cease business, and we may be unable to obtain alternate distribution in the vacated market. An inability to obtain alternate distribution could unfavorably affect our net sales through reduced market presence. If economic conditions deteriorate, we anticipate that dealer failures or voluntary market exits would increase, especially if overall retail demand materially declines.. Finally, labor disruption at major ports and shipping hubs around the world may adversely affect our ability to transport raw materials to our facilities and products to our distributors and end-use customers, potentially resulting in increased transportation costs and lost sales.. Adverse economic, credit, and capital market conditions could have a negative impact on our financial results.. We do not frequently rely on short-term capital markets to meet our working capital requirements, fund capital expenditures, pay dividends, or fund employee benefit programs; however, we do maintain short-term borrowing facilities that can be used to meet these capital requirements. In addition, over the long term, we may determine that it is necessary to access the capital markets to refinance existing long-term indebtedness or for other initiatives.. Adverse global economic conditions, market volatility, and regulatory uncertainty could lead to volatility and disruptions in the capital and credit markets. This could adversely affect our ability to access capital and credit markets or increase the cost to do so, which could have a negative impact on our business, financial results and competitive position.. Loss of key customers could harm our business.. In each segment, we have important relationships with key customers. From time to time, contracts with these customers come up for renewal, including a contract with a large Fitness segment customer in the first half of 2018. We cannot be certain we will renew such contracts, or renew them on favorable terms. If we lose a key customer, or a significant portion of its business, we could be adversely affected. In addition, certain customers could try to negotiate more favorable pricing of our products, which could depress earnings. In an effort to mitigate the risk associated with reliance on key customer accounts, we continually monitor such relationships and maintain a complete and competitive product lineup.. Inventory reductions by major dealers, retailers, and independent boat builders could adversely affect our financial results.. The Company and our dealers, retailers, and other distributors could decide to reduce the number of units they hold, particularly if demand trails forecasted levels or if new product introductions are expected to replace older products. Such efforts tend to result in wholesale sales reductions in excess of retail sales reductions and would likely result in lower production levels of our products, causing lower rates of absorption of fixed costs in our manufacturing facilities and lower margins. While we continue to work to keep dealer inventories at appropriate levels, potential inventory reductions remain a risk to our future sales and results of operations.. We may be required to repurchase inventory or accounts of certain dealers.. We have agreements with certain third-party finance companies to provide financing to our customers, enabling them to purchase our products. In connection with these agreements, we may either have obligations to repurchase our products from the finance company, or may have recourse obligations to the finance company on the dealer's receivables. These obligations may be triggered if our dealers default on their debt obligations to the finance companies.. Our maximum contingent obligation to repurchase inventory and our maximum contingent recourse obligations on customer receivables are less than the total balances of dealer financings outstanding under these programs, because our obligations under certain of these arrangements are subject to caps, or are limited based on the age of product. Our risk related to these arrangements. 10. Table of Contents. is mitigated by the proceeds we receive on the resale of repurchased product to other dealers, or by recoveries on receivables purchased under the recourse obligations.. Our inventory repurchase obligations relate primarily to the inventory floorplan credit facilities of our boat and engine dealers. Our actual historical repurchase experience related to these arrangements has been substantially less than our maximum contractual obligations. If dealers file for bankruptcy or cease operations, however, we could incur losses associated with the repurchase of our products.  In addition, as the repurchases may be triggered by dealer bankruptcies, our net sales and earnings may be unfavorably affected as a result of reduced market coverage and the associated decline in sales.. Declines in marine industry demand could cause an increase in future repurchase activity, or could require us to incur losses in excess of established reserves. In addition, our cash flow and loss experience could be adversely affected if repurchased inventory is not successfully distributed to other dealers in a timely manner, or if the recovery rate on the resale of the product declines.  The finance companies could require changes in repurchase or recourse terms that would result in an increase in our contractual contingent obligations.. Our operations are dependent on our ability to attract and retain adequate skilled labor and on the successful implementation of succession plans for key contributors.. Much of our future success depends on, among other factors, our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, including executives and skilled labor. If we are not successful in these efforts, we may be unable to meet our operating goals and plans, which may impact our financial results. With unemployment rates at low levels in many of the geographic areas in which we manufacture or distribute goods, availability of skilled hourly workers is critical to our operations. In order to manage this risk, we continuously monitor and make improvements to wages and benefit programs, as well as develop and improve recruiting and training programs to attract and retain an experienced and skilled workforce. In addition, we perform an annual review of management succession plans with the Board of Directors, including reviewing executive officer and other important positions to substantially mitigate the risk associated with key contributor transitions.. Our financial results may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply, or defects in raw materials, parts, and product components we buy from third-party suppliers.. We rely on third parties to supply raw materials used in the manufacturing process, including oil, aluminum, copper, steel, and resins, as well as product parts and components.  The prices for these raw materials, parts, and components fluctuate depending on market conditions and, in some instances, commodity prices. Substantial increases in the prices of raw materials, parts, and components would increase our operating costs, and could reduce our profitability if we are unable to recoup the increased costs through higher product prices. Similarly, if a critical supplier were to close its operations, cease manufacturing, or otherwise fail to deliver an essential component necessary to our manufacturing operations, that could detrimentally affect our ability to manufacture and sell our products, resulting in an interruption in business operations and/or a loss of sales.. In addition, some components used in our manufacturing processes, including certain engine components, furniture, upholstery, and boat windshields, are available from a sole supplier or a limited number of suppliers. Operational and financial difficulties that these or other suppliers may face in the future could adversely affect their ability to supply us with the parts and components we need, which could significantly disrupt our operations. It may be difficult to find a replacement supplier for a limited or sole source raw material, part, or component without significant delay or on commercially reasonable terms. In addition, an uncorrected defect or supplier's variation in a raw material, part, or component, either unknown to us or incompatible with our manufacturing process, could jeopardize our ability to manufacture products.. Some additional supply risks that could disrupt our operations, impair our ability to deliver products to customers, and negatively affect our financial results include:. • financial pressures on our suppliers due to a weakening economy or unfavorable conditions in other end markets;. • a deterioration of our relationships with suppliers;. • events such as natural disasters, power outages or labor strikes; or. • supplier manufacturing constraints and investment requirements.. These risks are exacerbated in the case of single-source suppliers, and the exclusive supplier of a key component potentially could exert significant bargaining power over price, quality, warranty claims, or other terms.. We continue to increase production; consequently, our need for raw materials and supplies continues to increase. Our suppliers must be prepared to ramp up operations and, in many cases, hire additional workers and/or expand capacity in order to fulfill our orders and those of other customers. Cost increases, defects, or sustained interruptions in the supply of raw materials, parts, or. 11. Table of Contents. components due to delayed start-up periods our suppliers experience as they increase production efforts create risks to our operations and financial results. The Company experienced periodic supply shortages in 2017. We continue to address these issues by identifying alternative suppliers for key materials and components, working to secure adequate inventories of critical supplies, and continually monitoring the capabilities of our supplier base. In the future, however, we may experience shortages, delayed delivery, and/or increased prices for key materials, parts, and supplies that are essential to our manufacturing operations.. Higher energy and fuel costs can affect our results.. Higher energy and fuel costs increase operating expenses at our manufacturing facilities and the cost of shipping products to customers. In addition, increases in energy costs can adversely affect the pricing and availability of petroleum-based raw materials such as resins and foam that are used in many of our marine products. Higher fuel prices may also have an adverse effect on demand for our marine parts and accessories businesses, as they increase the cost of boat ownership and possibly affect product use.. Our success depends upon the continued strength of our brands.. We believe that our brands, including Mercury Marine, Life Fitness, Boston Whaler, and Lund, significantly contribute to our success, and that maintaining and enhancing these brands is important to expanding our customer base. A failure to adequately promote and protect our brands could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Further, in connection with the divestiture of the bowling businesses, we licensed certain trademarks and servicemarks, including use of the name \"Brunswick,\" to the acquiring companies. Our reputation may be adversely affected by the purchasers' inappropriate use of the marks or of the name Brunswick, including potential negative publicity, loss of confidence, or other damage to our image due to this licensed use.. Either inadequate intellectual property protection that could allow others to use our technologies and impair our ability to compete, or failure to successfully defend against patent infringement claims could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We regard much of the technology underlying our products as proprietary. We rely on a combination of patents, trademark, copyright, and trade secret laws; employee and third-party non-disclosure agreements; and other contracts to establish and protect our technology and other intellectual property rights. However, we remain subject to risks, including:. • the steps we take to protect our proprietary technology may be inadequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology;. • third parties may independently develop similar technology;. • agreements containing protections may be breached or terminated;. • we may not have adequate remedies for breaches;. • existing patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret laws may afford limited protection;. • a third party could copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology without authorization; or. • we may be required to litigate to enforce our intellectual property rights, and we may not be successful.. Policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, particularly outside the U.S., and litigating intellectual property claims may result in substantial cost and divert management's attention.. In addition, we may be required to defend our products against patent or other intellectual property infringement claims or litigation. In addition to defense expenses and costs, we may not prevail in such cases, forcing us to seek licenses or royalty arrangements from third parties, which we may not be able to obtain on reasonable terms, or subjecting us to an order or requirement to stop manufacturing, using, selling, or distributing products that included challenged intellectual property, which could harm our business and financial results.. We have a fixed cost base that can affect our profitability in a declining sales environment.. The fixed cost levels of operating production facilities can put pressure on profit margins when sales and production decline. We have maintained discipline over our fixed cost base during the economic recovery; however, our profitability is dependent, in part, on our ability to spread fixed costs over an increasing number of products sold and shipped, and if we are required to reduce our rate of production, gross margins could be negatively affected if we are unable to lower fixed costs accordingly.  Consequently, decreased demand or the need to reduce inventories can lower our ability to absorb fixed costs and materially impact our results.. Successfully managing the expansion of our manufacturing footprint is critical to our operating and financial results.. Over the past five years, we have made strategic capital investments in capacity expansion activities to successfully capture growth opportunities and enhance product offerings. Recently, we initiated or completed expansion activities at our facilities in Edgewater, Florida; Lebanon, Missouri; Owatonna, Minnesota; Fond du Lac, Wisconsin; and Vila Nova de Cerveira, Portugal.. 12. Table of Contents. We must carefully manage these capital improvement projects and expansions to ensure they meet cost targets, comply with applicable environmental, safety, and other regulations, and uphold high-quality workmanship.. Moving production to a different plant or expanding capacity at an existing facility involves risks, including difficulties initiating production within the cost and timeframe estimated, supplying product to customers when expected, integrating new products, and attracting sufficient skilled workers to handle additional production demands. If we fail to meet these objectives, it could adversely affect our ability to meet customer demand for products and increase the cost of production versus projections, both of which could result in a significant adverse impact on operating and financial results.  Additionally, plants experiencing demand increases may face manufacturing inefficiencies, additional expenses, including higher wages, and cost inefficiencies, which could exceed projections and negatively impact financial results.. Our business operations could be negatively impacted by an outage or breach of our information technology systems or a cybersecurity event.. We manage our global business operations through a variety of information technology (IT) systems which we continually enhance to increase efficiency and security. We depend on these systems for commercial transactions, customer interactions, manufacturing, branding, employee tracking, and other applications. Some of the systems are based on legacy technology and operate with a minimal level of available support, and recent acquisitions using other systems have added to the complexity of our IT infrastructure. We are working to upgrade, streamline, and integrate these systems and have invested in strategies to prevent a failure or breach but, like those of other companies, our systems are susceptible to outages due to natural disasters, power loss, computer viruses, security breaches, hardware or software vulnerabilities, and similar events.  If a legacy system or another of the Company's key systems were to fail or if our IT systems were unable to communicate effectively, this could result in missed or delayed sales or lost opportunities for cost reduction or efficient cash management.. We exchange information with hundreds of trading partners across all aspects of our commercial operations.  A breakdown, outage, malicious intrusion, random attack, or other disruption of communications could result in erroneous transactions or loss of reputation and confidence. We have numerous e-commerce and e-marketing portals and our systems may contain personal information of customers or employees; therefore, we must continue to be diligent in protecting against malicious cyber attacks.   If our security measures are breached or fail, unauthorized persons may be able to obtain access to or acquire personal data. Depending on the nature of the information compromised, we may also have obligations to notify consumers and/or employees about the incident, and we may need to provide some form of remedy, such as a subscription to a credit monitoring service, for the individuals affected by the incident.. A successful breach could result in a disruption of services, fraudulent transactions, or disclosure of confidential information. This could negatively affect our relationships with customers or trading partners, lead to potential claims against the Company, and damage our image and reputation.. Our pension funding requirements and expenses are affected by certain factors outside our control.. Our funding obligations and pension expense for our two U.S. qualified pension plans are driven by the performance of assets set aside in trusts for these plans, the discount rate used to value the plans' liabilities, actuarial data and experience, and legal and regulatory funding requirements. Changes in these factors could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, liquidity, or shareholders' equity. In addition, a small portion of our pension plan assets are invested in equity securities, which can experience significant declines if economic conditions or financial markets weaken. The level of the Company's funding of our qualified pension plan liabilities was approximately 80 percent as of December 31, 2017. Although we have attempted to minimize this risk through pension de-risking actions, including moving investments to fixed income from equities and reducing liabilities through lump sum and annuity offerings, our future pension expense and funding requirements could increase due to the effect of adverse changes in the discount rate and asset levels along with a decline in the estimated return on plan assets. In addition, changes to legal regulations could require us to make increased contributions to the pension plans; these contributions could negatively affect cash flow.. We are currently mitigating these risks by maintaining an asset allocation with a high percentage of fixed income investments and by lowering plan liabilities by transferring obligations to a third party through annuity purchases.. The timing and amount of our share repurchases are subject to a number of uncertainties.. The Board of Directors has authorized the Company's discretionary repurchase of outstanding common stock, to be systematically completed in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions.  The remaining authorization under these programs is $110 million. The amount and timing of share repurchases are based on a variety of factors.  Important considerations that could cause us to limit, suspend, or delay stock repurchases include:. 13. Table of Contents. • unfavorable market conditions;. • the trading price of the Company's common stock;. • the nature of other investment opportunities available to us from time to time; and. • the availability of cash.. Delaying, limiting, or suspending our stock repurchase program may negatively affect our stock price and performance versus earnings per share targets.. Our profitability may suffer as a result of competitive pricing and other pressures.. The introduction of lower-priced alternative products or services by other companies can hurt our competitive position in all of our businesses. We are constantly subject to competitive pressures in which predominantly international manufacturers may pursue a strategy of aggressive pricing, particularly during periods when their local currency weakens versus the U.S. dollar. Such pricing pressure may limit our ability to increase prices for our products in response to raw material and other cost increases and negatively affect our profit margins.. In addition, our independent boat builder customers may react negatively to potential competition for their products from Brunswick's own boat brands, which can lead them to purchase marine engines and marine engine supplies from competing marine engine manufacturers and may negatively affect demand for our products.. Our ability to remain competitive depends on successfully introducing new products and services that meet customer expectations.. We believe that our customers look for and expect quality, innovation, and advanced features when evaluating and making purchasing decisions about products and services in the marketplace. Our ability to remain competitive and meet our growth objectives may be adversely affected by difficulties or delays in product development, such as an inability to develop viable new products or customer solutions, gain market acceptance of new products, generate sufficient capital to fund new product development, or obtain adequate intellectual property protection for new products. To meet ever-changing consumer demands, both timing of market entry and pricing of new products are critical.  As a result, we may not be able to introduce new products that are necessary to remain competitive in all markets that we serve.  Furthermore, we must continue to meet or exceed customers' expectations regarding product quality and after-sales service.. We manufacture and sell products that create exposure to potential claims and litigation.. Our manufacturing operations and the products we produce could result in product quality, warranty, personal injury, property damage, and other issues, thereby increasing the risk of litigation and potential liability, as well as regulatory fines. To address this risk, we have established a global, enterprise-wide program charged with the responsibility for addressing, reviewing, and reporting on product integrity issues. Historically, the resolution of such claims has not had a materially adverse effect on our business, and we maintain what we believe to be adequate insurance coverage to mitigate a portion of these risks. However, we may experience material losses in the future, incur significant costs to defend claims or issue product recalls, be subjected to fines or penalties, or experience claims in excess of our insurance coverage or that are not covered by insurance. Furthermore, our reputation may be adversely affected by such claims, whether or not successful, including potential negative publicity about our products. We record accruals for known potential liabilities, but there is the possibility that actual losses may exceed these accruals and therefore negatively impact earnings.. Compliance with environmental, zoning, data protection, and other laws and regulations may increase costs and reduce demand for our products.. We are subject to federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations, including product safety, environmental, health and safety, privacy, and other regulations.  While we believe that we maintain the requisite licenses and permits and that we are in material compliance with applicable laws and regulations, a failure to satisfy these and other regulatory requirements could result in fines or penalties, and compliance could increase the cost of operations. The adoption of additional laws, rules, and regulations, including stricter emissions standards, could increase our manufacturing costs, increase consumer pricing, and reduce consumer demand for our products.. Environmental restrictions, boat plant emission restrictions, and permitting and zoning requirements can limit production capacity, access to water for boating, marina, and storage space. While future licensing requirements, including any licenses imposed on recreational boating, are not expected to be unduly restrictive, they may deter potential customers, thereby reducing our sales. Furthermore, regulations allowing the sale of fuel containing higher levels of ethanol for automobiles, which is not appropriate or intended for use in marine engines, may nonetheless result in increased warranty, service costs, product. 14. Table of Contents. dissatisfaction, and other claims against the Company if boaters mistakenly use this fuel in marine engines, causing damage to and the degradation of components in their marine engines.. Our manufacturing processes involve the use, handling, storage and contracting for recycling or disposal of hazardous or toxic substances or wastes. Accordingly, we are subject to regulations regarding these substances, and the misuse or mishandling of such substances could expose us to liabilities, including claims for property, personal injury, or natural resources damages, or fines. We are also subject to laws requiring the cleanup of contaminated property, including cleanup efforts currently underway. If a release of hazardous substances occurs at or from one of our current or former properties or another location where we have disposed of hazardous materials, we may be held liable for the contamination, regardless of knowledge or whether we were at fault, and the amount of such liability could be material.. We are subject to various data protection and privacy laws and regulations in the foreign countries where we operate because we collect, store, process, and use personal information, and we rely on third parties that are not directly under our control to do so as well. The European Union has finalized a General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) that will become effective in May 2018 and will impose an even greater compliance burden with respect to privacy and data security. The GDPR and a growing number of legislative and regulatory bodies elsewhere in the world have adopted consumer notification requirements in the event of unauthorized access to or acquisition of certain types of personal data. These breach notification laws continue to evolve and may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. Complying with these obligations could cause us to incur substantial costs and could increase negative publicity surrounding any incident that compromises personal data.. Additionally, we are subject to laws governing our relationships with employees, including, but not limited to, employment obligations as a federal contractor and employee wage, hour, and benefits issues, such as pension funding and health care benefits. Compliance with these rules and regulations, and compliance with any changes to current regulations, could increase the cost of our operations.. Changes in income tax laws or enforcement could have a material adverse impact on our financial results.. Although domestic tax reform legislation in the form of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA), signed into law on December 22, 2017, should have an overall positive impact on our financial statements, our current estimates of the impact of the legislation could change as we analyze and apply additional regulations or guidance issued by the government. In addition, other changes in international and domestic tax laws, including the reaction by states to the corporate tax changes in the TCJA, and changes in tax law enforcement, could negatively impact our tax provision, cash flow, and/or tax related balance sheet amounts, including our deferred tax asset values. Changes in U.S. tax law will likely have broader implications, including impacts to the economy, currency markets, inflation environment, consumer behavior, and/or competitive dynamics, which it is difficult to predict, and may positively or negatively impact the Company and our results.. An impairment in the carrying value of goodwill, trade names, and other long-lived assets could negatively affect our consolidated results of operations and net worth.. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, such as our trade names, are recorded at fair value at the time of acquisition and are not amortized, but are reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. In evaluating the potential for impairment of goodwill and trade names, we make assumptions regarding future operating performance, business trends, and market and economic conditions. Such analyses further require us to make certain assumptions about sales, operating margins, growth rates, and discount rates.  Uncertainties are inherent in evaluating and applying these factors to the assessment of goodwill and trade name recoverability. We could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill or trade names prior to the annual assessment if we experience business disruptions, unexpected significant declines in operating results, a divestiture of a significant component of our business, or declines in market capitalization.. We also continually evaluate whether events or circumstances have occurred that indicate the remaining estimated useful lives of our definite-lived intangible assets and other long-lived assets may warrant revision or whether the remaining balance of such assets may not be recoverable. We use an estimate of the related undiscounted cash flow over the remaining life of the asset in measuring whether the asset is recoverable.. If the future operating performance of the Company's reporting units is not sufficient, we could be required to record non-cash impairment charges. Impairment charges could substantially affect our reported earnings in the periods such charges are recorded. In addition, impairment charges could indicate a reduction in business value which could limit our ability to obtain adequate financing in the future.  As of December 31, 2017, goodwill was approximately 13 percent of total assets and included $391 million of goodwill related to the Fitness segment, $32 million of goodwill related to the Marine Engine segment, and $2 million of goodwill related to the Boat segment.. 15. Table of Contents. Certain activist shareholder actions could cause us to incur expense and hinder execution of our strategy.. We actively engage in discussions with our shareholders regarding further strengthening our Company and creating long-term shareholder value. This ongoing dialogue can include certain divisive activist tactics, which can take many forms. Some shareholder activism, including potential proxy contests, could result in substantial costs, such as legal fees and expenses, and divert management's and our Board's attention and resources from our businesses and strategic plans. Additionally, public shareholder activism could give rise to perceived uncertainties as to our future, adversely affect our relationships with dealers, distributors, or customers, make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel, and cause our stock price to fluctuate based on temporary or speculative market perceptions or other factors that do not necessarily reflect the underlying fundamentals and prospects of our business. These risks could adversely affect our business and operating results.. Some of our operations are conducted by joint ventures that are not operated solely for our benefit.. We share ownership and management responsibilities with jointly owned companies such as BAC, Bella, and Tohatsu Marine Corporation. These joint ventures may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities, or resources as the Company because they are intended to be operated for the benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. If such a conflict occurred, it could negatively impact or sales or financial results.. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from international sources, which creates additional uncertainty.. We intend to continue to expand our international operations and customer base as part of our growth strategy. Sales outside the United States, especially in emerging markets, are subject to various risks, including government embargoes or foreign trade restrictions, foreign currency effects, tariffs, customs duties, inflation, difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems, compliance with international laws, treaties, and regulations, and unexpected changes in regulatory environments, disruptions in distribution, and dependence on foreign personnel and unions, as well as economic and social instability. In addition, there may be tax inefficiencies in repatriating cash from non-U.S. subsidiaries, or tax laws that affect this process may change.. Instability, including, but not limited to, political events, civil unrest, and an increase in criminal activity, in locations where we maintain a significant presence could adversely impact our manufacturing and business operations. Decreased stability poses a risk of business interruption and delays in shipments of materials, components, and finished goods, as well as a risk of decreased local retail demand for our products.. In addition, global political and economic uncertainty and shifts, such as the ongoing negotiations to determine the future terms of the U.K.'s relationship with the EU (Brexit), pose risks of volatility in global markets, which could affect our operations and financial results. Changes in U.S. policy regarding foreign trade or manufacturing may create negative sentiment about the U.S. among non-U.S. customers, employees, or prospective employees, which could adversely affect our business, sales, hiring, and employee retention.  If we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks, which could materially impact international operations or the business as a whole.. Adverse weather conditions and climate events can have a negative effect on marine revenues.. Changes in seasonal weather conditions can have a significant effect on our operating and financial results, especially in the marine businesses. Sales of our marine products are typically stronger just before and during spring and summer, and favorable weather during these months generally has had a positive effect on consumer demand. Conversely, unseasonably cool weather, excessive rainfall, or drought conditions during these periods can reduce or change the timing of demand.  Additionally, climate changes, regardless of the cause, resulting in environmental changes including, but not limited to, severe weather, changing sea levels, poor water conditions, or reduced access to water, could disrupt or negatively affect our business.. Catastrophic events, including natural and environmental disasters, could have a negative effect on our operations and financial results.. Hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, storms, and catastrophic natural or environmental disasters could disrupt our distribution channel, operations, or supply chain and decrease consumer demand.  If a catastrophic event takes place in one of our major sales markets, our sales could be diminished.  Additionally, if such an event occurs near our business, manufacturing facilities or key suppliers' facilities, business operations and/or operating systems could be interrupted. We could be uniquely affected by a catastrophic event due to the location of certain of our boat facilities in coastal Florida and the size of the manufacturing operation in Fond du Lac, Wisconsin.. 16. Table of Contents"
