[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. There are many factors that may affect us and investments in us.  Security holders and potential investors in our securities should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below, as well as the discussion of other factors that could affect us or investments in us included elsewhere in this Report.  If one or more of these risks were to materialize, our business, financial position or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.  We are identifying these risk factors as important risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any written or oral forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf.. Risks Inherent in our Business. Changes in petroleum demand and distribution and weakness in the United States economy may adversely affect our business.. Demand for the services we provide depends upon the demand for the products we handle in the regions we serve and the supply of products in the regions connected to our pipelines or from which our customers source products handled by our terminals.  Prevailing economic conditions, refined petroleum product, fuel oil and crude oil price levels and weather affect the demand for liquid petroleum products.  Changes in transportation and travel patterns in the areas served by our pipelines also affect the demand for petroleum products because a substantial portion of the refined petroleum products transported by our pipelines and throughput at our terminals is ultimately used as fuel for motor vehicles and aircraft.  If these factors result in a decline in demand for refined petroleum products, our pipeline and terminals business would be particularly susceptible to adverse effects because we operate without the benefit of exclusive franchises from government entities and generally without long-term contracts.. Demand for the services we provide in the Caribbean is partially driven by global demand for refinery feedstock supplied from United States and Latin American crude oil production, and by Latin American demand for clean petroleum products supplied from the United States and European refinery output.  Changes in these and other global patterns of supply and demand for fuel oil, crude oil and clean petroleum products could affect the demand for the services we provide in the Caribbean and the prices we can charge for those services.. In recent years, the federal government has enacted renewable fuel or energy efficiency statutory mandates that may have the impact over time of reducing the demand for fuel oil or clean refined petroleum products, particularly with respect to gasoline, in certain markets.  Other legislative changes may similarly alter the expected demand and supply projections for refined petroleum products in ways that cannot be predicted.. Energy conservation, changing sources of supply, structural changes in the oil industry and new energy technologies also could adversely affect our business.  We cannot predict or control the effect of these factors on us.. Economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed to slowdowns in the oil and gas industry, as well as in the specific segments and markets in which we operate, resulting in reduced oil production, reduced supply or demand and increased price competition for our products and services.  In addition, economic conditions could result in a loss of customers in our operating segments because their access to the capital necessary to purchase services we provide is limited.  Our operating results may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions in certain regions of the United States.  If global economic and market conditions (including volatility or sustained weakness in commodity markets) or economic conditions in the United States remain uncertain or persist, spread or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. A significant decline in production at certain refineries served by certain of our pipelines and terminals, disruptions at facilities on which our customers rely, or a fundamental change in the source of supply of petroleum products to a region, could materially reduce the volume of liquid petroleum products we transport and adversely impact our operating results.. Refineries that are the primary source of supply of product to our pipelines and terminals could partially or completely shut down their operations, temporarily or permanently, due to factors such as unscheduled maintenance, catastrophes, labor difficulties, environmental proceedings or other litigation, loss of significant downstream customers; or legislation or regulation that adversely impacts the economics of refinery operations.  For example, a significant decline in production at the Wood River refinery, Whiting refinery, Paulsboro refinery or Lima refinery could negatively impact the financial performance of such assets and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows.. 19. Table of Contents. In addition, if there is a fundamental shift in the primary source of supply of petroleum products to a region our pipelines serve and our pipeline infrastructure in the region is not well-suited to serve the new primary source, the performance of such assets could be negatively impacted, and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Furthermore, our customers are dependent upon the ongoing operations of certain facilities owned or operated by such customers or third parties, such as the pipelines, barges and retail fuel distribution assets, as well as refineries and other facilities that generate products our customers handle.  Any significant interruption at these facilities or inability to transport products to or from these facilities or to or from our customers for any reason would adversely affect our customers' operations, and possibly cash flow and in turn this could affect our operations and cash flow and ability to make distributions to our unitholders.  Operations at our facilities and at the facilities owned or operated by our customers and their suppliers could be partially or completely shut down, temporarily or permanently, as the result of any number of circumstances that are not within our control.. Competition could adversely affect our operating results.. Our Domestic Pipelines & Terminals and Global Marine Terminals segments compete with other existing pipelines and terminals that provide similar services in the same markets as our assets.  In addition, our competitors could construct new assets or redeploy existing assets in a manner that would result in more intense competition in the markets we serve.  We compete with other transportation, storage and distribution alternatives on the basis of many factors, including but not limited to rates, service levels, geographic location, connectivity and reliability.  Our customers could utilize the assets and services of our competitors instead of our assets and services, or we could be required to lower our prices or increase our costs to retain our customers.. Our Merchant Services segment buys and sells refined petroleum products in connection with its marketing activities, and must compete with major energy companies, their marketing affiliates, and independent brokers and marketers of widely varying sizes, financial resources and experience.  Some of these companies have superior access to capital resources, which could affect our ability to effectively compete with them.. All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Mergers among our customers and competitors could result in lower volumes being shipped on our pipelines and stored in our terminals, thereby reducing the amount of cash we generate.. Mergers between existing customers could provide strong economic incentives for the combined entities to utilize their existing pipeline and terminal systems instead of ours.  As a result, we could lose some or all of the volumes and associated revenues from these customers, and we could experience difficulty in replacing those lost volumes and revenues.  Because most of our operating costs are fixed, a reduction in volumes would result in not only a reduction of revenues, but also a decline in Adjusted EBITDA (see \"Non-GAAP Financial Measures\" in Item 7 for a discussion of Adjusted EBITDA, which is our primary measure of performance), net income and cash flow of a similar magnitude, which would reduce our ability to meet our financial obligations and pay cash distributions.. We are a holding company and depend entirely on cash flows from our operating subsidiaries to service our debt obligations and pay cash distributions to our unitholders. Our distributions are not guaranteed.. We are a holding company with no material operations, and, as a result, our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders and to service our debt obligations is dependent upon the earnings and cash flows of our operating subsidiaries.  If we do not receive distribution of earnings, loans or other payments from our operating subsidiaries, we will not be able to meet our debt service obligations or to make cash distributions to our unitholders.  Among other things, this would adversely affect the market price of our LP Units.  We are currently bound by the terms of our Credit Facility, which prohibit us from making distributions to our unitholders if a default under the Credit Facility exists at the time of the distribution or would result from the distribution.  Our operating subsidiaries may from time to time incur additional indebtedness under agreements that contain restrictions which could further limit each operating subsidiary's ability to make distributions to us.. 20. Table of Contents. Our distributable cash flow does not depend solely on profitability, which is affected by non-cash items. As a result, we could pay cash distributions during periods when we record net losses and could be unable to pay cash distributions during periods when we record net income.  In addition, the amount of cash we generate from operations is affected by numerous factors beyond our control, fluctuates from quarter to quarter and may change over time.  Significant or sustained reductions in the cash generated by our operations could reduce our ability to pay quarterly distributions.  Any failure to pay distributions at expected levels could result in a loss of investor confidence and a decrease in the value of our unit price.. We may incur unknown and contingent liabilities from assets we have acquired.. Some of the assets we have acquired have been used for many years to distribute, store or transport petroleum products.  Releases from terminals or along pipeline rights-of-way may have occurred prior to our acquisition.  In addition, releases may have occurred in the past that have not yet been discovered, which could require costly future remediation.. We perform a certain level of diligence in connection with our acquisitions and attempt to ascertain the extent of liabilities that might be associated with an acquired facility, but there may be unknown and contingent liabilities related to our acquisitions of which we are unaware.. If a significant release or event occurred in the past at any of our acquired assets and we are responsible for all or a significant portion of the liability associated with such release or event, it could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.  We could be liable for unknown obligations relating to any of our acquired assets, for which indemnification or insurance is not available, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow.. If we incorrectly predict the future results of acquired operations or assets, we may not realize all of the benefits we expect from an acquisition.  We may make dispositions on terms that are less favorable than we anticipated.. Part of our business strategy includes making acquisitions and, when appropriate, dispositions.  In evaluating acquisitions and dispositions, we prepare one or more financial cases based on a number of business, industry, economic, legal, regulatory, and other assumptions applicable to the proposed transaction.  Although we expect a reasonable basis will exist for those assumptions, the assumptions typically involve current estimates of future conditions.  Many assumptions are beyond our control and may not materialize.  Because of the uncertainty and risk of inaccuracy associated with these assumptions, including financial projections, we may not realize the full benefits we anticipate from an acquisition, or we may encounter unanticipated difficulties locating buyers and securing favorable terms for dispositions, each of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow.  Dispositions may also involve continued financial involvement in the divested business, such as through continuing minority equity ownership, guarantees, indemnities or other financial obligations.  Under these arrangements, performance by the divested businesses or other conditions outside of our control could adversely affect our future financial results.. Potential future acquisitions and organic growth projects, if any, may affect our business by substantially increasing the level of our indebtedness and contingent liabilities and increasing the risks of our being unable to effectively complete and integrate these new operations.. From time to time, we evaluate and acquire assets and businesses that we believe complement our existing assets and businesses.  If we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly.  We also routinely execute organic growth projects that complement our existing assets.  Our decisions regarding new organic growth projects rely on numerous estimates, including predictions of future demand for our services, future supply shifts, crude oil and refined products production estimates, commodity price environments, economic conditions and potential changes in the financial condition of our customers.  Our predictions of such factors could cause us to forgo certain investments or to lose opportunities to competitors who make investments based on more aggressive predictions.  Acquisitions and organic growth projects, including the integration of assets into our existing businesses, may require substantial capital.. Acquisitions and organic growth projects involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the assets and operations of the acquired businesses, inefficiencies and difficulties that arise because of unfamiliarity with new assets and the businesses associated with them and new geographic areas and the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns.  Further, we may experience unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition or project or we may be unable to integrate certain assets to the extent such assets relate to a business for which we have no or limited experience.  Our failure to properly assess the levels of capital or time required to acquire or build and integrate these assets, or our failure to accurately predict the returns from these assets could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. 21. Table of Contents. Debt securities we issue are, and will continue to be, junior to claims of our operating subsidiaries' creditors.. Our outstanding debt securities are structurally subordinated to the claims of our operating subsidiaries' creditors.  In addition, any debt securities we issue in the future will likewise be subordinated in the same manner.  Holders of the debt securities will not be creditors of our operating subsidiaries.  Our claim to the assets of our operating subsidiaries derives from our own ownership interests in those operating subsidiaries.  Claims of our operating subsidiaries' creditors will generally have priority as to the assets of our operating subsidiaries over our own ownership interests and will therefore have priority over the holders of our debt, including our debt securities.. Limited access to the debt and equity markets or adverse credit events could adversely affect our business.. Our ability to acquire assets or businesses or make other growth capital investments depends on whether we can access adequate financing.  Changes in the debt and equity markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity, and interest rate volatility, may limit our access to the capital markets, increase the cost of financing and adversely impact our ability to refinance maturing debt.  Instability in the financial markets may increase our cost of capital while reducing the availability of funds, affecting our ability to raise capital.  If access to the debt and equity markets were limited or not available, our ability to grow our business through acquisitions or other capital investments could be restricted, and it is not certain if other adequate financing options would be available to us on terms and conditions that are acceptable.  Any disruption could require us to take additional measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until we can arrange alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs.  Such measures could include reducing or delaying investment activities, reducing our operating expenses, limiting our distributions or reducing other uses of cash.  Furthermore, a downgrade below our current ratings levels by any of the credit rating agencies could increase our borrowing costs, reduce our borrowing capacity and cause our counterparties to reduce the amount of open credit we receive from them.  This could negatively impact our ability to capitalize on market opportunities. Loss of our investment grade credit rating could also adversely impact our cash flows, our ability to make distributions at our current levels and the value of our outstanding equity and debt securities. Under such circumstances, we may be unable to execute our growth strategy or take advantage of other business opportunities, which could negatively impact our business.. Our rate structures are subject to regulation and change by FERC; required changes could be adverse.. BPLC, Wood River, BPL Transportation, Buckeye Linden and NORCO are interstate common carriers regulated by FERC under the Interstate Commerce Act, the Energy Policy Act of 1992 and the Department of Energy Organization Act.  FERC's primary ratemaking methodology is indexing rates for inflation.  Where circumstances justify it, FERC permits pipelines to use one of three alternatives to index-based rates:  market-based, cost-based, or settlement-based rates.  A pipeline is allowed to charge (1) market-based rates if the pipeline establishes that it does not possess significant market power in a particular market, (2) cost-based rates if the pipeline establishes that its costs substantially exceed its indexed rates, and (3) settlement-based rates if the rates are agreed by all shippers receiving a service.. The indexing methodology is used to establish rates on the pipelines owned by Wood River, BPL Transportation and NORCO, and for certain rates charged by BPLC.  In December 2015, FERC amended its regulations to change the index to the Producer Price Index (\"PPI\")  -  finished goods plus 1.23% effective July 1, 2016.  If the index were to be negative, we could be required to reduce the rates charged by Wood River, BPL Transportation and NORCO, and certain rates charged by BPLC, if they exceed the new maximum allowable rate.  In addition, changes in the PPI might not fully reflect actual increases in the costs associated with these pipelines, thus potentially hampering our ability to recover our costs by relying on the index.. In addition to the risks described above, at any time shippers on any of our FERC-regulated pipelines have the right to challenge the application of the index to a pipeline's rates or the underlying rates themselves as being unjust and unreasonable, subject to the FERC's cost-of-service standards or that market-based authority is no longer justified because we possess significant market power in a particular market.  Such shipper challenges may seek adjustments to our rates prospectively and, subject to limitations, for certain past periods.  If a significant shipper challenge were to result in an outcome that is unfavorable to us, our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows could be adversely impacted.. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases or setting fuel economy or air quality standards could result in increased operating costs or reduced demand for the liquid petroleum products and other hydrocarbon products that we transport, store or otherwise handle in connection with our business.. In recent years, federal authorities such as the EPA and various state regulatory bodies have increasingly sought to regulate emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other GHG.  Such regulation has targeted emissions from large industrial sources, such as factories, refineries and other manufacturing facilities, and for increasingly large classes of motor vehicles.. 22. Table of Contents. While most of the currently effective regulations have not had a material effect on our operations, expansions of the existing regulations or any future laws or regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions could require us to incur additional costs to reduce emissions of GHG associated with our operations.  The effect on our operations could include increased costs to operate and maintain our facilities, measure and report our emissions, install new emission controls on our facilities, acquire allowances to authorize our GHG emissions, pay any taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions and administer and manage a GHG emissions program.  While we may be able to include some or all of such increased costs in the rates we charge, such recovery of costs is uncertain and may depend on events beyond our control, including the outcome of future rate proceedings before the FERC and the provisions of any final regulations.  In addition, laws or regulations regarding fuel economy, air quality or GHG gas emissions (for motor vehicles or otherwise) could include efficiency requirements or other methods of curbing carbon emissions that could adversely affect demand for the liquid petroleum products and other hydrocarbon products that we transport, store or otherwise handle in connection with our business.  A significant decrease in demand for petroleum products would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. In addition to the regulatory and associated financial risks from climate change discussed above, the effects of climate change may have significant physical impacts, such as an increase in sea level, wetland and barrier island erosion, flooding and increased frequency and severity of storms.  We own assets and have employees in, and serve, communities that are at risk of being adversely affected by the physical impacts of climate change and, if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse impact on our assets and operations.. Environmental regulation may impose significant costs and liabilities on us.. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment.  Risks of substantial environmental liabilities are inherent in our operations, and we cannot assure you that we will not incur material environmental liabilities.  Additionally, our costs could increase significantly, and we could face substantial liabilities, if, among other developments, environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies become more rigorous; or claims for property damage or personal injury resulting from our operations are filed.. Existing or future state or federal government regulations relating to certain chemicals or additives in gasoline or diesel fuel could require capital expenditures or result in lower pipeline volumes and thereby adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.. Changes made to governmental regulations governing the components of liquid petroleum products may necessitate changes to our pipelines and terminals which may require significant capital expenditures or result in lower pipeline volumes.  For instance, the increasing use of ethanol as a fuel additive, which is blended with gasoline at product terminals, may lead to reduced pipeline volumes and revenue which may not be totally offset by increased terminal blending fees we may receive at our terminals.. DOT and state-level regulations may impose significant costs and liabilities on us.. Our pipeline operations are subject to regulation by the DOT and by some of the states in which we do business.  Certain states, particularly California, have been reviewing pipeline safety regulations and increasing inspections and audits.  These federal regulations require, among other things, that pipeline operators engage in a regular program of pipeline integrity testing and other inspections to assess, evaluate, repair and validate the integrity of their pipelines, which, in the event of a leak or failure, could affect populated areas, unusually sensitive environmental areas or commercially navigable waterways.  In compliance with these regulations, we conduct pipeline integrity tests on an ongoing and regular basis.  Depending on the results of these integrity tests, we could incur significant and unexpected capital and operating expenditures, not accounted for in anticipated capital or operating budgets, in order to repair such pipelines to ensure their continued safe and reliable operation.  In addition, any new regulations that are the result of PSA 2011, 2016 or any subsequent PSA reauthorization laws or new DOT pipeline safety regulations may affect our operations.. 23. Table of Contents. Our international operations may be adversely affected by economic, political and regulatory developments.. BBH's terminalling facility and the St. Lucia terminal are located in The Bahamas and St. Lucia, respectively.  VTTI's operations span the globe, with key locations predominantly located in Northwest Europe, the Middle East and Southeast Asia.  As a result, we are exposed to the risks of international operations, including political, economic and regulatory developments and changes in laws or policies affecting our terminalling operations, restrictions on foreign exchange and repatriation, as well as changes in the policies of the United States affecting trade, taxation and investment in other countries.  Any such developments or changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flow.. Compliance with laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases the cost of doing business and could interfere with our ability to offer services or expose us to fines and penalties.  These numerous laws and regulations include the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials or agents.  Although policies designed to fully ensure compliance with these laws are in place, employees, contractors, or agents may violate the policies.  Any such violations could include prohibitions on our ability to offer services internationally and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial results and cash flow.. We may not be able to fully implement or capitalize upon planned organic growth projects.. We have a number of organic growth projects that involve the construction, expansion or modification of existing assets.  Many of these projects involve numerous regulatory, environmental, commercial, economic, weather-related, political and legal uncertainties that are beyond our control, including the following:. • As these projects are undertaken, required approvals, permits and licenses may not be obtained, may be delayed or may be obtained with conditions that materially alter the expected return associated with the underlying projects;. • A depressed crude oil price environment may make it more difficult for producers and other customers to commit to long-term contracts that provide commercial support for certain organic growth projects.. • Despite the fact that we will expend significant amounts of capital during the construction phase of these projects, revenues associated with these organic growth projects will not materialize until the projects have been completed and placed into commercial service, and the amount of revenue generated from these projects could be significantly lower than anticipated for a variety of reasons;. • We may not be able to secure, or we may be significantly delayed in obtaining, all of the rights of way or other real property interests we need to complete such projects, or the costs we incur in order to obtain such rights of way or other interests may be greater than we anticipated;. • We may construct pipelines, facilities or other assets in anticipation of market demand that dissipates or market growth that never materializes;. • Due to unavailability or costs of materials, supplies, power, labor or equipment, the cost of completing these projects could turn out to be significantly higher than we budgeted and the time it takes to complete construction of these projects and place them into commercial service could be significantly longer than planned; and. • The completion or success of our projects may depend on the completion or success of third-party facilities over which we have no control.. As a result of these uncertainties, the anticipated benefits associated with our capital projects may not be achieved.  In turn, this could negatively impact our cash flow and our ability to make or increase cash distributions to our unitholders.. 24. Table of Contents. Our results could be adversely affected by volatility in the price of refined petroleum products.. The Merchant Services segment buys and sells refined petroleum products in connection with its marketing activities.  If the values of refined petroleum products change in a direction or manner that we do not anticipate, we could experience financial losses from these activities.  Furthermore, when refined petroleum product prices decrease rapidly, we may be unable to promptly pass our additional costs to our customers, resulting in lower margins for us which could adversely affect our results of operations.  Factors that could cause significant increases or decreases in commodity prices include changes in supply due to production constraints, weather, governmental regulations, and changes in consumer demand.  It is our practice to maintain a position that is substantially balanced between commodity purchases, on the one hand, and expected commodity sales or future delivery obligations, on the other hand.  Through these transactions, we seek to establish a margin for the commodity purchased by selling the same commodity for physical delivery to third-party users, such as wholesalers or retailers.  While our hedging policies are designed to minimize commodity price risk, some degree of exposure to unforeseen fluctuations in market conditions remains.  For example, any event that disrupts our anticipated physical supply could expose us to risk of loss resulting from price changes if we are required to obtain alternative supplies to cover these sales transactions.  In addition, we are also exposed to basis risk which is created when a commodity of a certain grade or location is purchased, sold, or exchanged for a like commodity at a different time or location.  For example, we use NYMEX traded products, which deliver in New York Harbor, to hedge our commodity risk associated with physical transactions that will be delivered at other locations, such as Macungie, Pennsylvania.  We are also susceptible to basis risk in our hedging activities that arises when a commodity, such as the purchase of heating oil at one location must be hedged against the New York Harbor ultra low sulfur diesel futures contract as a result of limitations within the financial markets for derivative products.. The loss of one or more key customers in our Global Marine Terminals segment could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow.. BBH's storage revenue accounted for approximately 23% of total revenue in the Global Marine Terminals segment for the year ended December 31, 2017.  Currently, BBH has a diversified set of storage customers, consisting of major oil companies, energy companies, physical traders and national oil companies.  However, for the year ended December 31, 2017, 40% and 59% of BBH's storage revenue was derived from the top one and the top three customers, in the aggregate, respectively.  We expect BBH to continue to derive a substantial portion of its total revenue from a small number of customers in the future.  BBH may be unsuccessful in renewing its storage contracts with its customers, and those customers may discontinue or reduce contracted storage from BBH.  If any of BBH's customers, in particular its top three customers, significantly reduces its contracted storage with BBH and if BBH is unable to find other storage customers on terms substantially similar to the terms under BBH's existing storage contracts, our business, results of operations and cash flow could be adversely affected.. Additionally, revenue from Buckeye Texas, which is contracted predominantly to one customer under long-term take-or-pay arrangements, accounted for approximately 38% of total revenue in the Global Marine Terminals segment for the year ended December 31, 2017.  If any one or more of our long-term take-or-pay arrangements with this customer are terminated and we are unable to secure comparable alternative arrangements with one or more third parties, we may not be able to generate sufficient additional revenue to fully replace that generated by the current customer.. Similarly, a majority of VTTI's 2017 revenue was derived from its primary customer, Vitol. If a significant portion of VTTI's contractual arrangements with Vitol is terminated and VTTI is unable to secure comparable alternative arrangements with one or more third parties, VTTI may not be able to generate sufficient additional revenue to fully replace that generated by the current customer, which may have a significant adverse effect on its ability to pay distributions to us.. A decrease in storage contract renewals or renewals at substantially lower rates at our storage terminals could cause our storage revenue to decline, which could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow.. The revenue we earn from storage services at our storage terminals is provided for in contracts negotiated with our storage services customers.  Many of those contracts are for multi-year periods and require our customers to pay a fixed rate for storage capacity regardless of market conditions during the contract period.  Changing market conditions, including changes in petroleum product supply or demand patterns, availability of storage, forward-price structure, financial market conditions, regulations, accounting rules or other factors could cause our customers to be unwilling to renew their storage services contracts with us when those contracts terminate, or make them willing to renew only at lower rates or for shorter contract periods.  Failure by our customers to renew their storage contracts on terms and at rates substantially similar to our existing contracts could result in lower utilization of our facilities and could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow.. 25. Table of Contents. Reduced volatility in energy prices or new government regulations could discourage our storage customers from holding positions in petroleum products, which could adversely affect the demand for our storage services.. We have constructed and continue to build new storage tanks in response to increased customer demand for storage.  Many of our competitors have also built new storage facilities.  The demand for new storage has resulted in part from our customers' desire to have the ability to take advantage of profit opportunities created by volatility in the prices of petroleum products.  If the prices of petroleum products become relatively stable, or if federal or state regulations are passed that discourage our customers from storing these commodities, demand for our storage services could decrease, in which case we may be unable to lease storage capacity or be forced to reduce the rates we charge for storage services capacity, and we may experience material impacts on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Failure of critical information technology systems as a result of cybersecurity breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which could cause our business and reputation to suffer and reduce the amount of cash available for distribution.. We utilize information technology systems to operate our assets and manage our businesses. Some of these systems are proprietary systems that require specialized programming capabilities, while others are based upon or reside on technology that has been in service for many years.  Cybersecurity attacks are evolving and include but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to, or otherwise disrupt, our pipeline control systems, attempts to gain unauthorized access to proprietary information, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, including our pipeline control systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data.  Failures of our information technology systems as a result of cybersecurity attacks or other disruptions could result in a breach of critical operational or financial controls and lead to a disruption of our operations, commercial activities or financial processes.  Similarly, cybersecurity attacks or other disruptions impacting significant customers and/or suppliers could also lead to a disruption of our operations or commercial activities.  These events could damage our reputation and cause us to incur liabilities that have a material adverse impact on the Partnership, including financial losses from remedial actions, business interruptions, loss of business and reduced ability to pay cash distributions.. Terrorist attacks or other security threats could adversely affect our business.. Since the attacks of September 11, 2001, the United States government has issued warnings that energy assets, specifically our nation's pipeline infrastructure, may be the future target of terrorist organizations.  In addition to the threat of terrorist attacks, we face various other security threats, including cybersecurity threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or systems or to render data or systems unusable; threats to the safety of our employees; threats to the security of our facilities, such as terminals and pipelines, and infrastructure or third-party facilities and infrastructure.  These developments have subjected our operations to increased risks.. Although we utilize various procedures and controls to monitor these threats and mitigate our exposure to security threats, there can be no assurance that these procedures and controls will be sufficient in preventing security threats from materializing.  If any of these events were to materialize, they could lead to losses of sensitive information, critical infrastructure, personnel or capabilities, essential to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.. The Department of Homeland Security promulgated the Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards (\"CFATS\") to regulate the security of facilities that handle certain chemicals.  We submit to the Department of Homeland Security certain required information concerning our facilities in compliance with CFATS and, as a result, several of our facilities have been determined to be \"high risk\" by the Department of Homeland Security.  Due to this determination, we are required to prepare a security vulnerability assessment and, in certain locations, develop and implement site security plans required by CFATS.  At this time, we do not believe that compliance with CFATS will have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. In addition to CFATS, our domestic operations are also subject to other laws and regulations promulgated and enforced by the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of Transportation and the United States Coast Guard, including TSA Pipeline Security Guidelines.  Our operations in The Bahamas and in St. Lucia are subject to similar security-related regulations.  We believe that we currently comply in all material respects with security-related laws and regulations.  However, this is an area of continued regulatory developments for our industry and as such, we may incur increased operating costs based on developments associated with these regulations and ongoing compliance.  At this time, we do not believe that future compliance with these requirements will have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. 26. Table of Contents. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws.. Our international operations require us to comply with a number of U.S. and international laws and regulations, including those involving anti-bribery and anti-corruption.  For example, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\") and similar international laws and regulations prohibit improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business.  The scope and enforcement of anti-corruption laws and regulations may vary.. We operate in parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices.  Our compliance programs and internal control policies and procedures may not always protect us from reckless or negligent acts committed by our employees or agents.  Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our business and operations.. Additionally, if VTTI, or its or officers, directors, employees or agents, were determined to be in violation of anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA and the U.K. Bribery Act, VTTI could become subject to substantial fines, sanctions, civil and/or criminal penalties, or curtailment of VTTI's operations in certain jurisdictions, which could adversely affect its business, results of operations or financial condition. Any such adverse effects could, in turn, adversely affect VTTI's ability to make cash distributions to us.. Derivative reform mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act and rules and regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act may have an adverse effect on our ability to use certain derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business.. Congress adopted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\") in 2010.  Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act mandated significant changes to the over-the-counter derivative market and requires the Commodities Futures Trading Commission and the SEC and other regulators to promulgate rules and regulations establishing federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivative market.  Although as of December 31, 2017, the rules and regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act have not had an adverse effect on our ability to use certain derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business, such rules and regulations may have an adverse effect on our ability to do so in the future.. The rulemaking process under the Dodd-Frank Act has not been fully completed, and in certain cases where rule-making is final, the rules will be phased in over a period of time.  As a result, it is not possible at this time to determine the full effect that the Dodd-Frank Act will have on our ability to continue to use the derivative products we currently utilize.  The rules and regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act may increase the costs of certain derivative products as a result of the imposition of capital, margin, clearing and exchange-trading requirements either on us or on our counterparties.  Any requirement to post more collateral to our counterparties in excess of what we currently post to collateralize our obligations may have a negative impact upon our liquidity.  Position limits may be imposed upon certain derivative transactions, which may further restrict our ability to utilize these products.  The effects of the rules and regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act may also reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts.  If, as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, we reduce our use of certain derivatives, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures or increase our distributions.  Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition, and our results of operations.. 27. Table of Contents. Our business is exposed to customer credit risk, and we may not be able to fully protect ourselves against such risk.. Our businesses are subject to the risks of nonpayment and nonperformance by our customers.  We have in the past and expect to continue to undertake capital expenditures based on commitments, including take-or-pay commitments, from customers upon which we expect to realize a return.  Nonperformance by our customers of those commitments or termination of those commitments resulting from our inability to timely meet our obligations could result in substantial losses to us.  In addition, some of our customers, counterparties and suppliers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks and, even if our credit review and analysis mechanisms work properly, we may experience financial losses in our dealings with such parties.  Volatility in commodity prices might have an impact on many of our customers, which in turn could have a negative impact on their ability to meet their obligations to us.  We manage our exposure to credit risk through credit analysis and monitoring procedures, and sometimes collateral, such as letters of credit, prepayments, liens on customer assets and guarantees.  However, these procedures and policies cannot fully eliminate customer credit risk, and to the extent our policies and procedures prove to be inadequate, it could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.. The marketing business in our Merchant Services segment enters into sales contracts pursuant to which customers agree to buy refined petroleum products from us at a fixed price on a future date.  If our customers have not hedged their exposure to reductions in refined petroleum product prices and there is a price drop, then they could have a significant loss upon settlement of their fixed-price contracts with us, which could increase the risk of their nonpayment or nonperformance.  In addition, we generally have entered into futures contracts to hedge our exposure under these fixed-price contracts to increases in refined petroleum product prices.  If price levels are lower at settlement than when we entered into these futures contracts, then we will be required to make payments upon the settlement thereof.  Ordinarily, this settlement payment is offset by the payment received from the customer pursuant to the associated fixed-price contract.  We are, however, required to make the settlement payment under the futures contract even if a fixed-price contract customer does not perform.  Nonperformance under fixed-price contracts by a significant number of our customers could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be insured or entitled to indemnification.. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions such as natural disasters, adverse weather, accidents, fires, explosions, marine allisions, hazardous materials releases and other events beyond our control.  These events might result in a loss of equipment or life, injury, or extensive property or environmental damage, as well as an interruption in our operations.  Our operations are currently covered by property, casualty, workers' compensation and environmental insurance policies.  In the future, however, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount desired at reasonable rates.  As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies have increased substantially, and could escalate further.  In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage.  For example, insurance carriers are now requiring broad exclusions for losses due to war risk and terrorist acts.  Further, our environmental pollution coverage is subject to exclusions, conditions and limitations that could apply to a particular pollution claim or may not cover all claims or liabilities we incur.  The contracts with our customers and other business partners involve risk-allocation and indemnification provisions.  However, pursuant to these contracts we generally may not seek indemnification from a counterparty for liabilities, including those associated with the release of petroleum products, arising at a time in which we are in possession of the product owned by the counterparty.  If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, or insured at all, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation or cash flows.. Our risk management policies cannot eliminate all commodity price risk and any noncompliance with our risk management policies could result in significant financial losses.. We follow risk management practices that are designed to minimize commodity price risk, credit risk and operational risk.  These practices and policies cannot, however, eliminate all price and price-related risks.  Additionally, noncompliance with such practices and policies by our employees or agents may create additional risk.  We cannot make any assurances that we will detect and prevent all violations of our risk management practices and policies, particularly if deception or other intentional misconduct is involved.  Any violations of these practices or policies by our employees or agents could result in significant financial losses.. 28. Table of Contents. Hurricanes and other severe weather conditions, which may become more frequent as a result of climatic changes, could damage our facilities or disrupt our marine terminals or the operations of their customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial results and cash flow.. The operations of our facilities, in particular our marine terminals, could be impacted by severe weather conditions, including hurricanes.  Any such event could cause a serious business disruption or serious damage to our facilities, which could affect such facilities' ability to provide services.  Additionally, such events could impact our facilities' customers, and they may be unable to utilize our services.  In addition, many scientists believe that global climatic changes are occurring and are likely to lead to increased physical risks, including an increase in sea level, wetland and barrier island erosion, risks of flooding and changes in weather conditions, such as precipitation, average temperatures and extreme weather conditions or storms.  We own assets in communities that may be at risk from sea level rise, changes in weather conditions, storms and loss of the protection offered by coastal wetlands.  The portion of our assets that is located in these areas may be increasingly susceptible to storm damage that could be aggravated by wetland and barrier island erosion.  Existing weather-related risks and increased risks from additional future climate changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation or cash flows.. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our unit price and our business.. Interest rates on future debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly.  An increase in interest rates could also cause a corresponding decline in demand for equity investments, in general, and in particular for yield-based equity investments such as our LP Units.  Lower demand for our LP Units for any reason, including competition from other more attractive investment opportunities, would likely cause the trading price of our LP Units to decline.  If we issue additional equity at a significantly lower price, material dilution to our existing unitholders could result.. Additionally, we use both fixed and variable rate debt, and we are exposed to market risk due to the floating interest rates on our Credit Facility.  From time to time we use interest rate derivatives to hedge interest obligations on specific debt.  In addition, interest rates on future debt offerings could be higher, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly.  Our results of operations, cash flows and financial position could be adversely affected by significant increases in interest rates above current levels.. VTTI is subject to many of the same operational and business risks to which our wholly owned operations are subject and we have less control over the way VTTI manages these risks.. VTTI is subject to many of the risks described above, including risks related to shifts in supply and demand, competition, environmental risks, environmental and other regulations, the need to attract and retain customers, credit risks, and terrorism and natural disaster risks.  Because we do not control VTTI, we may not be able to mitigate or protect against these risks as we would with our wholly owned assets and business. If VTTI's business were to be negatively impacted by any of these risks, its results of operations, financial position and cash flows, as well as its ability to pay cash distributions to us could be adversely affected.. We have limited ability to influence significant business decisions affecting VTTI without also receiving the consent of Vitol.. Differences in views among the owners of VTTI could result in delayed decisions or in failures to agree on significant matters, potentially adversely affecting the business and results of operations or prospects of VTTI and, in turn, the amount of cash from operations distributed to us.. In addition, we do not control the day-to-day operations of the VTTI Entities.  Our lack of control over the VTTI Entities' day-to-day operations and the associated costs of such operations could result in our receiving lower cash distributions than we anticipate, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or cash flows.. 29. Table of Contents. Risks Relating to Partnership Structure. We may sell additional units, diluting existing interests of unitholders.. Our partnership agreement allows us to issue additional units and certain other equity securities without unitholder approval.  There is no limit on the total number of units and other equity securities we may issue.  We regularly issue additional units, through our at-the-market offering program and otherwise, and when we issue additional units or other equity securities, the proportionate partnership interest of our existing unitholders will decrease.  The issuance could negatively affect the amount of cash distributed to unitholders and the market price of the units.  Issuance of additional units will also diminish the relative voting strength of the previously outstanding LP Units.. Our partnership agreement limits the liability of our general partner and its directors and officers.. Our general partner and its directors and officers owe fiduciary duties to our unitholders.  Provisions of our partnership agreement and partnership agreements for each of our operating partnerships, however, contain language limiting the liability of the general partner and its directors and officers to the unitholders for actions or omissions taken in good faith which do not involve gross negligence or willful misconduct.  In addition, these partnership agreements grant broad rights of indemnification to the general partner and its directors, officers, employees and affiliates.. Unitholders may not have limited liability in some circumstances.. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partnership interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some states.  If it were determined that we had been conducting business in any state without compliance with the applicable limited partnership statute, or that the unitholders as a group took any action pursuant to our partnership agreement that constituted participation in the \"control\" of our business, then the unitholders could be held liable under some circumstances for our obligations to the same extent as a general partner.. Under applicable state law, our general partner has unlimited liability for our obligations, including our debts and environmental liabilities, if any, except for our contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner.. In addition, Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act provides that under some circumstances a unitholder may be liable to us for the amount of distributions paid to the unitholder for a period of three years from the date of the distribution.. Tax Risks to Unitholders. Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states.  If the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, or we become subject to entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced.. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our LP Units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes.. Despite the fact that we are organized as a limited partnership under Delaware law, we will be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes unless we satisfy a \"qualifying income\" requirement.  Based upon our current operations and the private letter rulings we have received with respect to certain aspects of our business, we believe we satisfy the qualifying income requirement.  Failing to meet the qualifying income requirement or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation.. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which, effective January 1, 2018, is currently a maximum of 21%.  Distributions to you would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to you.  Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced.  Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to holders of our LP Units, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our LP Units.. 30. Table of Contents. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for U.S. federal, state, local or foreign income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law or interpretation on us.  At the state level, several states have been evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation.  If any state were to impose a tax upon us as an entity, the cash available for distribution to you would be reduced and the value of our LP Units could be negatively impacted.. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our LP Units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis.. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our LP Units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time.  From time to time, members of Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships.  Although there is no current legislative proposal, a prior legislative proposal would have eliminated the qualifying income exception to the treatment of all publicly-traded partnerships as corporations upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. In addition, on January 24, 2017, final regulations (the \"Final Regulations\") regarding which activities give rise to qualifying income within the meaning of Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\") were published in the Federal Register.  We do not believe the Final Regulations affect our ability to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. However, any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible for us to meet the exception for certain publicly traded partnerships to be treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes.  We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted.  Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our LP Units.. If the IRS were to contest the federal income tax positions we take, it may adversely impact the market for our LP Units, and the costs of any such contest would reduce cash available for distribution to you.. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes.  The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take.  It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take.  A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take.  Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our LP Units and the price at which they trade.  Moreover, the costs of any contest between us and the IRS will result in a reduction in cash available for distribution to our unitholders and thus will be borne indirectly by our unitholders.. If the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, it (and some states) may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustment directly from us, in which case our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced and our current and former unitholders may be required to indemnify us for any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustments that were paid on such unitholders' behalf.. Pursuant to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, if the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns, it (and some states) may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustment directly from us.  Under our limited partnership agreement, our general partner is permitted to make elections under the new rules to either pay the taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly to the IRS or, if we are eligible, issue a revised Schedule K-1 to each unitholder with respect to an audited and adjusted return.  Although our general partner may elect to have our unitholders take such audit adjustment into account in accordance with their interests in us during the tax year under audit, there can be no assurance that such election will be practical, permissible or effective in all circumstances.  As a result, our current unitholders may bear some or all of the tax liability resulting from such audit adjustment, even if such unitholders did not own units in us during the tax year under audit.  If, as a result of any such audit adjustment, we are required to make payments of taxes, penalties and interest, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced and our current and former unitholders may be required to indemnify us for any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustments that were paid on such unitholders' behalf.  These rules are not applicable for tax years beginning on or prior to December 31, 2017.. 31. Table of Contents. Even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us, you will be required to pay taxes on your share of our taxable income.. You will be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes, on your share of our taxable income, whether or not you receive cash distributions from us.  For example, if we sell assets and use the proceeds to repay existing debt or fund capital expenditures, you may be allocated taxable income and gain resulting from the sale, and our cash available for distribution would not increase.  Similarly, taking advantage of opportunities to reduce our existing debt, such as debt exchanges, debt repurchases, or modifications of our existing debt could result in \"cancellation of indebtedness income\" being allocated to our unitholders as taxable income without any increase in our cash available for distribution.  You may not receive cash distributions from us equal to your share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax due from you with respect to that income.. Tax gain or loss on disposition of our LP Units could be more or less than expected.. If you sell your LP Units, you will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and your tax basis in those LP Units.  Because distributions in excess of your allocable share of our net taxable income decrease your tax basis in your LP Units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the LP Units you sell will, in effect, become taxable income to you if you sell such LP Units at a price greater than your tax basis in those LP Units, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost.  Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing a gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture.  In addition, because your amount realized includes your share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if you sell your LP Units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale.. A substantial portion of the amount realized from the sale of your units, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income to you due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture.  Thus, you may recognize both ordinary income and capital loss from the sale of your units if the amount realized on a sale of your units is less than your adjusted basis in the units.  Net capital loss may only offset capital gains and, in the case of individuals, up to $3,000 of ordinary income per year.  In the taxable period in which you sell your units, you may recognize ordinary income from our allocations of income and gain to you prior to the sale and from recapture items that generally cannot be offset by any capital loss recognized upon the sale of units.. Unitholders may be subject to limitation on their ability to deduct interest expense incurred by us.. In general, our unitholders are entitled to a deduction for the interest we have paid or accrued on indebtedness properly allocable to our trade or business during our taxable year.  However, under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"), for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, our deduction for \"business interest\" is limited to the sum of our business interest income and 30% of our \"adjusted taxable income.\"  For the purposes of this limitation,  adjusted taxable income is computed without regard to any business interest expense or business interest income, and in the case of taxable years beginning before January 1, 2022, any deduction allowable for depreciation, amortization, or depletion.  While actual results may differ significantly from current projections, we do not expect the interest expense limitation to impact the interest deductions attributable to our domestic operations, however, we have not yet determined the impact the limitation could have on our unitholders' ability to deduct the interest expense we derive from VTTI.. Tax-exempt entities face unique tax issues from owning our LP Units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.. Investment in our LP Units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs) raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from U.S. federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Further, with respect to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, a tax-exempt entity with more than one unrelated trade or business (including by attribution from investment in a partnership such as ours that is engaged in one or more unrelated trade or business) is required to compute the unrelated business taxable income of such tax-exempt entity separately with respect to each such trade or business (including for purposes of determining any net operating loss deduction). As a result, for years beginning after December 31, 2017, it may not be possible for tax-exempt entities to utilize losses from an investment in our partnership to offset unrelated business taxable income from another unrelated trade or business and vice versa. Tax-exempt entities should consult a tax advisor before investing in our LP Units.. 32. Table of Contents. Non-U.S. Unitholders will be subject to U.S. taxes and withholding with respect to their income and gain from owning our LP Units.. Non-U.S. unitholders are generally taxed and subject to income tax filing requirements by the United States on income effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business (\"effectively connected income\"). Income allocated to our unitholders and any gain from the sale of our LP Units will generally be considered to be \"effectively connected\" with a U.S. trade or business.  As a result, distributions to a Non-U.S. unitholder will be subject to withholding at the highest applicable effective tax rate and a Non-U.S. unitholder who sells or otherwise disposes of an LP Unit will also be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the gain realized from the sale or disposition of that LP Unit to the extent the gain is effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business of the Non-U.S. unitholder.. The Tax Act imposes a withholding obligation of 10% of the amount realized upon a Non-U.S. unitholder's sale or exchange of an interest in a partnership that is engaged in a U.S. trade or business. However, due to challenges of administering a withholding obligation applicable to open market trading and other complications, the IRS has temporarily suspended the application of this withholding rule to open market transfers of interest in publicly traded partnerships pending promulgation of regulations or other guidance that resolves the challenges.  It is not clear if or when such regulations or other guidance will be issued.  Non-U.S. unitholders should consult a tax advisor before investing in our LP Units.. We treat each purchaser of LP Units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the LP Units actually purchased.  The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the LP Units.. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of LP Units and because of other reasons, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing U.S. Treasury Regulations.  A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you.  It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from your sale of LP Units and could have a negative impact on the value of our LP Units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns.. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our LP Units each month based upon the ownership of our LP Units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular LP Unit is transferred.  The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. We generally prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our LP Units each month based upon the ownership of our LP Units on the first day of each month (the \"Allocation Date\"), instead of on the basis of the date a particular LP Unit is transferred.  Similarly, we generally allocate certain deductions for depreciation of capital additions, gain or loss realized on a sale or other disposition of our assets and, in the discretion of the general partner, any other extraordinary item of income, gain, loss or deduction based upon ownership on the Allocation Date.  The U.S. Department of the Treasury adopted final Treasury Regulations allowing a similar monthly simplifying convention, but such regulations do not specifically authorize all aspects of our proration method.  If the IRS were to challenge our proration method, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. A unitholder whose LP Units are the subject of a securities loan (e.g., a loan to a \"short seller\" to cover a short sale of LP Units) may be considered to have disposed of those LP Units.  If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those LP Units during the period of the loan and could recognize gain or loss from the disposition.. Because there are no specific rules governing the federal income tax consequences of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose LP Units are the subject of a securities loan may be considered to have disposed of the loaned LP Units.  In that case, the unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those LP Units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition.  Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those LP Units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those LP Units could be fully taxable as ordinary income.  Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a securities loan are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their LP Units.. 33. Table of Contents. Taxable income from our non-U.S. businesses is not eligible for the 20% deduction for qualified publicly traded partnership income.. Pursuant to the Tax Act, a unitholder is generally allowed a deduction equal to 20% of our \"qualified publicly traded partnership income\" that is allocated to such unitholder.   For purposes of the deduction, the term qualified publicly traded income includes the net amount of such unitholder's allocable share of our income that is effectively connected to our U.S. trade or business activities.  Because our non-U.S. business operations and the VTTI business operations earn income that is not effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business, unitholders may not apply the 20% deduction for qualified publicly traded partnership income to that portion of our income.. Our gross income with respect to the VTTI business may not be qualifying income, and we may cause all or a portion of our interest in such business to be held in an entity treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which could substantially reduce cash available for distribution.. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a publicly traded partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes.  In order to maintain our status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, 90% or more of our gross income in each tax year must be qualifying income under Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended.  We expect to derive income from the transportation and storage of refined petroleum products, crude oil and LPG refined petroleum products in part through direct or indirect non-U.S. subsidiaries of VTTI, including VTTI MLP Investments BV, that are treated as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes.  In specific circumstances we may be required to include certain amounts of this corporate income in our own gross income whether or not these corporations make matching cash distributions.  Our counsel on matters of U.S. federal income tax law is unable to opine as to the qualifying income nature of portions of such income inclusions derived from the VTTI assets or operations.  Consequently, there is a risk that we will earn significant amounts of income that our counsel cannot opine is qualifying income, and we intend to actively monitor the amounts of any such income inclusions and may seek a ruling from the IRS with respect to the qualifying income nature of these income inclusion amounts.. If these income inclusion amounts are expected to exceed our anticipated tolerance for gross income with respect to which our counsel is unable to opine and we are unable to receive a favorable IRS ruling in a timely manner, it may be necessary for us to hold some or all of our interests in the VTTI business through a taxable U.S. corporate subsidiary.  In such case, this corporate subsidiary would be subject to corporate-level tax on its taxable income up to the maximum U.S. federal corporate income tax rate, which is currently 21%, as well as any applicable state and local income tax rates.  Imposition of a corporate level income tax would significantly reduce the anticipated cash available for distribution from the VTTI business to us and, in turn, would reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders.  Moreover, if the IRS were to successfully assert that this corporation had more tax liability than we currently anticipate or legislation was enacted that increased the corporate tax rate, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be further reduced.. Notwithstanding our treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we may be subject to additional tax on our non-U.S. income.  If a taxing authority were to successfully assert that we have more tax liability than we anticipate or legislation were enacted that increased the taxes to which we are subject, the cash available for distribution to you could be further reduced.. A portion of our business operations and subsidiaries and a portion of the VTTI business operations and subsidiaries are generally subject to income, withholding and other taxes in the non-U.S. jurisdictions in which they are organized or from which they receive income, reducing the amount of cash available for distribution.  In computing our tax obligation in these non-U.S. jurisdictions, we are required to take various tax accounting and reporting positions on matters that are not entirely free from doubt and for which we have not received rulings from the governing tax authorities, such as whether withholding taxes will be reduced by the application of certain tax treaties.  Upon review of these positions the applicable authorities may not agree with our positions.  A successful challenge by a tax authority could result in additional tax being imposed on us, reducing the cash available for distribution to unitholders.  In addition, changes in our operations or ownership could result in higher than anticipated tax being imposed in jurisdictions in which we are organized or from which we receive income and further reduce the cash available for distribution.. 34. Table of Contents. Unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes and income tax return filing requirements in jurisdictions where such unitholders do not live.. In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, unitholders may be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if a unitholder does not live in any of those jurisdictions.  Unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions.  Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements.  We own property and conduct business in a number of states in the United States.  Most of these states impose an income tax on individuals, corporations and other entities.  Additionally, we also directly and indirectly own property and conduct business in multiple non-U.S. jurisdictions.  Under current law, unitholders are not required to file a tax return or pay taxes in any of the non-U.S. jurisdictions where we currently directly and indirectly own property or operate in.  As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states or non-U.S. jurisdictions that impose a personal income tax.  It is a unitholder's responsibility to file all non-U.S., federal, state and local tax returns.. We have subsidiaries that are treated as corporations for federal income tax purposes and subject to corporate-level income taxes.. We conduct a portion of our operations through subsidiaries that are corporations for federal income tax purposes.  We may elect to conduct additional operations in corporate form in the future.  The corporate subsidiaries will be subject to corporate-level tax, which will reduce the cash available for distribution to us and, in turn, to our unitholders.  If the IRS were to successfully assert that the corporate subsidiary has more tax liability than we anticipate or legislation was enacted that increased the corporate tax rate, our cash available for distribution would be further reduced."
