[1] "ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to the Corporation's Operations. We are subject to interest rate risk and fluctuations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance.. Our profitability depends in substantial part on our net interest margin, which is the difference between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits and borrowings divided by total interest-earning assets. Changes in interest rates will affect our net interest margin in diverse ways, including the pricing of loans and deposits, the levels of prepayments and asset quality. We are unable to predict actual fluctuations of market interest rates because many factors influencing interest rates are beyond our control. We believe that our current interest rate exposure is manageable and does not indicate any significant exposure to interest rate changes.  On December 13, 2017, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) announced its third increase during 2017 for the federal funds rate, which is the interest rate at which depository institutions lend reserve balances to other depository institutions overnight, to 1.25 percent-1.50 percent.  The FOMC's monetary policy remains accommodative after this increase, thereby supporting strong labor market conditions and a sustained return to two percent inflation.  Financial markets expect three more quarter-point rate increases to the federal funds rate during 2018.  Therefore, we are expecting continued pressure on our net interest margin due to continued low market rates and intense competition for loans and deposits from both local and national financial institutions.  In addition, a significant portion of C&F Finance's funding is indexed to short-term interest rates and reprices as short-term interest rates change.  An upward movement in interest rates may result in an unfavorable pricing disparity between C&F Finance's fixed rate loan portfolio and its adjustable-rate borrowings.  Continued pressure on our net interest margin could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our business is subject to various lending and other economic risks that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Deterioration in economic conditions could adversely affect our business. Our business is directly affected by general economic and market conditions; broad trends in industry and finance; legislative and regulatory changes; changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies; and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. A deterioration in economic conditions, in particular a prolonged economic slowdown within our geographic region, could result in the following consequences, any of which could hurt our business materially: an increase in loan delinquencies; an increase in problem assets and foreclosures; a decline in demand for our products and services; and a deterioration in the value of collateral for loans made by our various business segments.. Adverse changes in economic conditions in our market areas or adverse conditions in an industry on which a local market in which we do business is dependent could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We provide full service banking and other financial services in the Hampton to Charlottesville corridor in Virginia. Our loan and deposit activities are directly affected by, and our financial success depends on, economic conditions within these markets, as well as conditions in the industries on which those markets are economically dependent. A deterioration in local economic conditions or in the condition of an industry on which a local market depends, such as the U.S. military and related defense contractors and industries, could adversely affect such factors as unemployment rates, business formations and expansions and housing market conditions. Adverse developments in any of these factors could result in among other things, a decline in loan demand, a reduction in the number of creditworthy borrowers seeking loans, an increase in delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures, an increase in classified and nonaccrual loans, a decrease in the value of loan collateral, and a decline in the financial condition of borrowers and guarantors, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition or business.. Our risk management framework may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss.. We maintain an enterprise risk management program that is designed to identify, quantify, monitor report and control the risks we face. These risks include, but are not limited to, interest rate, credit, liquidity, operational, reputation, legal, compliance, economic and litigation risk. Although we assess our risk management program on an ongoing basis and make identified improvements to it, we can give no assurance that this approach and risk management framework (including related controls) will effectively mitigate the risks listed above or limit losses that we may incur. If our risk. 15. Table of Contents. management program has flaws or gaps, or if our risk management controls do not function effectively, our results of operations, financial condition or business may be adversely affected.. Our level of credit risk is higher due to the concentration of our loan portfolio in commercial loans and in consumer finance loans.. At December 31, 2017, 43 percent of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial, financial and agricultural loans, which include loans secured by real estate for builder lines, acquisition and development and commercial development, as well as commercial loans secured by personal property. These loans generally carry larger loan balances and involve a greater degree of financial and credit risk than home equity and residential loans. The increased financial and credit risk associated with these types of loans is a result of several factors, including the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans and to borrowers in similar lines of business, the size of loan balances, the effects of general economic conditions on income-producing properties and the increased difficulty of evaluating and monitoring these types of loans.. At December 31, 2017, 28 percent of our loan portfolio consisted of consumer finance loans that provide automobile financing for customers in the non-prime market. During periods of economic slowdown or recession, delinquencies, defaults, repossessions and losses may increase in this portfolio. Significant increases in the inventory of used automobiles during periods of economic recession may also depress the prices at which we may sell repossessed vehicles or delay the timing of these sales. Because we focus on non-prime borrowers, the actual rates of delinquencies, defaults, repossessions and losses on these loans are higher than those experienced in the general automobile finance industry and could be dramatically affected by a general economic downturn. In addition, our servicing costs may increase without a corresponding increase in our finance charge income. While we manage the higher risk inherent in loans made to non-prime borrowers through our underwriting criteria for installment sales contracts we purchase and collection methods, we cannot guarantee that these criteria or methods will ultimately provide adequate protection against these risks.. Competition from other financial institutions and financial intermediaries may adversely affect our profitability.. We face substantial competition in originating loans and in attracting deposits. Our competition in originating loans and attracting deposits comes principally from other banks, mortgage banking companies, consumer finance companies, savings associations, credit unions, brokerage firms, insurance companies and other institutional lenders and purchasers of loans. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the credit needs of larger clients. These institutions may be able to offer the same loan products and services that we offer at more competitive rates and prices. Increased competition could require us to increase the rates we pay on deposits or lower the rates we offer on loans, which could adversely affect our profitability.. Weakness in the secondary residential mortgage loan markets will adversely affect income from our mortgage company.. One of the components of our strategic plan is to generate significant noninterest income from C&F Mortgage, which originates a variety of residential loan products for sale into the secondary market.  Interest rates, low housing inventory, cash buyers, new mortgage lending regulations and other market conditions have a direct effect on loan originations across the industry.. In addition, deterioration in economic conditions may also cause borrowers to default on their mortgages.  This may result in potential repurchase or indemnification liability to C&F Mortgage on residential mortgage loans originated and sold into the secondary market in the event of claims by investors of borrower misrepresentation, fraud, early-payment default, or underwriting error, as investors attempt to minimize their losses. We cannot be assured that a prolonged period of payment defaults and foreclosures will not result in an increase in requests for repurchases or indemnifications, or that established reserves will be adequate, which could adversely affect the Corporation's net income.. Our home lending profitability could be significantly reduced if we are not able to originate and sell a high volume of mortgage loans.. The existence of an active secondary market is a critical component of C&F Mortgage's ability to generate income from the sale of loans to investors.  Active secondary markets for residential mortgages depend upon the continuation of. 16. Table of Contents. programs currently offered by government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs) (such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac), the FHA, the VA, the USDA, and state bond programs, which account for a substantial portion of the secondary market in residential mortgage loans. Because the largest participants in the secondary market are GSEs whose activities are governed by federal law, any future changes in laws that significantly affect the activity of the GSEs could adversely affect our mortgage company's operations. Further, in September 2008, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were placed into conservatorship by the U.S. government. Although to date, the conservatorship has not had a significant or adverse effect on our operations, it is unclear whether further changes or reforms would adversely affect our operations. Although we sell loans to various third-party counterparties (i.e., investors), the ability of these aggregators to purchase loans would be limited if the GSEs cease to exist or materially limit their purchases of mortgage loans.. Compliance with the CFPB regulations aimed at the mortgage banking industry may require substantial changes to mortgage lending systems and processes that may adversely affect income from our mortgage company.. In June 2015, the CFPB issued rules that combined disclosures previously established by TILA and RESPA into a single disclosure referred to as the TILA-RESPA Integrated Disclosure, or TRID.  During 2015, C&F Mortgage implemented drastically new processes and systems in order to comply with TRID.  TRID applies to most closed-end mortgage loans and overhauls the manner in which mortgage loan origination disclosures are made pursuant to TILA (Regulation Z) and RESPA.  In October 2015, the CFPB issued a final rule implementing the Dodd-Frank Act's changes to the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (the HMDA Rule), with most of such changes effective January 1, 2018. The HMDA Rule significantly expands the types of reportable loans and the data collected. C&F Bank and C&F Mortgage will be required to collect, record and report 48 unique data points for each loan application, of which 25 are new, 14 are modified from the current rule and nine are mostly unchanged. Along with other reporting options available to loan applicants, there is a potential of 110 reportable data points on any one loan. Compliance with the HMDA Rule requires a coordinated effort for (i) training all consumer, small business and commercial lending personnel, (ii) updating internal and third-party software used for loan underwriting, document preparation and data collection, and (iii) preparing and communicating new/revised policies and procedures that incorporate the requirements of the HMDA Rule.  These CFPB rules, in addition to other previously-issued and to-be-issued CFPB regulations, could materially affect our regulatory compliance costs, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. An increase in interest rates may reduce our mortgage revenues, which would negatively affect our noninterest income.. Our Mortgage Banking segment provides a significant portion of our noninterest income.  We generate gains on sales of mortgage loans primarily from sales of mortgage loans that we originate.  In a rising or higher interest rate environment, our originations of mortgage loans may decrease, resulting in fewer loans that are available to be sold to investors.  This would result in a decrease in noninterest income.  In addition, our results of operations are affected by the amount of noninterest expenses (including for personnel and systems infrastructure) associated with mortgage banking activities.  During periods of reduced loan demand, our results of operations may be adversely affected to the extent that we are unable to reduce expenses commensurate with the decline in mortgage loan origination activity.. If our allowance for loan losses becomes inadequate, our results of operations may be adversely affected.. Making loans is an essential element of our business. The risk of nonpayment is affected by a number of factors, including but not limited to: the duration of the credit; credit risks of a particular customer; changes in economic and industry conditions; and, in the case of a collateralized loan, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral. Although we seek to mitigate risks inherent in lending by adhering to specific underwriting practices, our loans may not be repaid. We attempt to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses to provide for losses in our loan portfolio. Our allowance for loan losses at our Retail Banking segment is determined by analyzing numerous factors about the loan portfolio including historical loan losses for relevant periods of time, current trends in delinquencies and charge-offs, current economic conditions that may affect a borrower's ability to repay and the value of collateral, changes in the size and composition of the loan portfolio and industry information. Also included in our estimates for loan losses at this segment are qualitative considerations with respect to the effect of potential economic events, the outcomes of which are uncertain.. Our allowance for loan losses at our Consumer Finance segment is determined by analyzing delinquency rates, trends in deferrals, defaults, repossessions and used car sales, and charge-off history for relevant periods of time, which. 17. Table of Contents. can vary depending on economic conditions, and our judgment based on the overall analysis of the current lending environment. Also included in our estimates for loan losses at this segment are qualitative considerations with respect to the effect of potential economic events, the outcomes of which are uncertain.. Because any estimate of loan losses is necessarily subjective and the accuracy of any estimate depends on the outcome of future events, we face the risk that charge-offs in future periods will exceed our allowance for loan losses and that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses will be required. Additions to the allowance for loan losses would result in a decrease of our net income. Although we believe our allowance for loan losses is adequate to absorb losses that are inherent in our loan portfolio, we cannot predict such losses or that our allowance will be adequate in the future.. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) has adopted a new accounting standard that will be effective for the Corporation for the fiscal year beginning January 1, 2020. This standard, referred to as Current Expected Credit Loss, or CECL, will require financial institutions to determine periodic estimates of lifetime expected credit losses on loans, and recognize the expected credit loss in its allowance for loan losses. This will change the current method of providing an allowance for loan losses that are inherent in the loan portfolio, which may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, and to greatly increase the types of data we would need to collect and review to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses. The Corporation has established a working group that is in the process of gathering historical data and evaluating appropriate portfolio segmentation and modeling methods. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or expenses incurred to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our real estate lending business can result in increased costs associated with Other Real Estate Owned (OREO).. Because we originate loans secured by real estate, we may have to foreclose on the collateral property to protect our investment and may thereafter own and operate such property, in which case we are exposed to the risks inherent in the ownership of real estate. The amount that we may realize after a default is dependent upon factors outside of our control, including, but not limited to, general or local economic conditions, environmental cleanup liability, neighborhood values, interest rates, real estate tax rates, operating expenses of the mortgaged properties, and supply of and demand for properties. Certain expenditures associated with the ownership of income-producing real estate, principally real estate taxes and maintenance costs, may adversely affect the net cash flows generated by the real estate. Therefore, the cost of operating income-producing real property may exceed the rental income earned from such property, and we may have to advance funds in order to protect our investment or we may be required to dispose of the real property at a loss.. Our deposit insurance premiums could increase in the future, which may adversely affect our future financial performance.. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC insured financial institutions, including the Bank.  The FDIC charges insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the DIF at a certain level.  Economic conditions that began with the financial crisis of 2008 increased the rate of bank failures through 2014, requiring the FDIC to make payments for insured deposits from the DIF and prepare for future payments from the DIF.  A depository institution's deposit insurance assessment is calculated based on the institution's total assets less tangible equity, rather than the previous base of total deposits.  The Bank's FDIC insurance premiums could increase in future periods if the Bank's asset size increases, if the FDIC raises base assessment rates, or if the FDIC takes other actions to replenish the DIF.. Acquisition of assets and assumption of liabilities may expose us to intangible asset risk, which could affect our result of operations and financial condition.. In connection with accounting for the acquisitions of C&F Finance Company in 2002 and CVBK in 2013, we recorded assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their fair value, which resulted in the recognition of certain intangible assets, including goodwill. Adverse conditions in our business climate, including a significant decline in future operating cash flows, a significant change in our stock price or market capitalization, or a deviation from our expected growth rate and performance, may significantly affect the fair value of any goodwill and may trigger impairment losses, which could be materially adverse to our results of operations and financial condition.. 18. Table of Contents. We rely substantially on deposits obtained from customers in our target markets to provide liquidity and support growth.. Our business strategies are based on access to funding from local customer deposits. Deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including interest rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, returns available to customers on alternative investments and general economic conditions. If our deposit levels fall, we could lose a relatively low cost source of funding and our interest expense would likely increase as we obtain alternative funding to replace lost deposits. If local customer deposits are not sufficient to fund our normal operations and growth, we will look to outside sources, such as borrowings from the FHLB, which is a secured funding source. Our ability to access borrowings from the FHLB will be dependent upon whether and the extent to which we can provide collateral to secure FHLB borrowings. We may also look to federal funds purchased and brokered deposits, although the use of brokered deposits may be limited or discouraged by our banking regulators. We may also seek to raise funds through the issuance of shares of our common stock, or other equity or equity-related securities, or debt securities including subordinated notes as additional sources of liquidity. If we are unable to access funding sufficient to support our business operations and growth strategies or are only able to access such funding on unattractive terms, we may not be able to implement our business strategies which may negatively affect our financial performance.. We are subject to security and operational risks relating to our use of technology that could damage our reputation and our business.. In the ordinary course of business, the Corporation collects and stores sensitive data, including proprietary business information and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in systems and on networks. The secure processing, maintenance and use of this information is critical to operations and the Corporation's business strategy. The Corporation has invested in information security technologies and continually reviews processes and practices that are designed to protect its networks, computers and data from damage or unauthorized access. Despite these security measures, the Corporation's computer systems and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Security breaches, including cyber incidents and hacking events, have been experienced by several of the world's largest financial institutions that utilize sophisticated security tools to prevent such breaches, incidents and events.  Any security breach that we experience could expose us to possible liability and damage our reputation. We rely on standard security systems and procedures to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure collection, transmission and storage of sensitive data. These systems and procedures include but are not limited to (i) regular penetration testing of our network perimeter, (ii) regular employee training programs on sound security practices, (iii) deployment of tools to monitor our network including intrusion prevention and detection systems, electronic mail spam filters, anti-virus and anti-malware, resource logging and patch management, (iv) multifactor authentication for customers using treasury management tools, and (v) enforcement of security policies and procedures for the additions and maintenance of user access and rights to resources.. While most of our core data processing is conducted internally, certain key applications are outsourced to third party providers. If our third party providers encounter difficulties or if we have difficulty in communicating with such third parties, it will significantly affect our ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions, which would significantly affect our business operations and reputation.  Additionally, in recent years banking regulators have focused on the responsibilities of financial institutions to supervise vendors and other third-party service providers.  We may have to dedicate significant resources to manage risks and regulatory burdens presented by our relationship with vendors and third-party service providers, including our data processing and cybersecurity service providers.. Business counterparties, over which the Corporation may have limited or no control, may experience disruptions that could adversely affect the Corporation.. Multiple major U.S. retailers and a major consumer credit reporting agency have experienced data systems incursions in recent years reportedly resulting in the thefts of credit and debit card information, online account information, and other personal and financial data of hundreds of millions of individuals.  Retailer incursions may affect debit cards issued and deposit accounts maintained by many banks, including C&F Bank.  Although the Corporation is not aware of any instance in which the Corporation's or the Bank's systems have been breached in a retailer incursion, these events can cause the Bank to reissue a significant number of cards and take other costly steps to avoid significant theft loss to the Bank and its customers.  In some cases, the Bank may be required to reimburse customers for the losses they incur.  Credit reporting agency intrusions affect the Bank's customers and can require these customers and the Bank to increase account. 19. Table of Contents. monitoring and take remedial action to prevent unauthorized account activity or access.  Other possible points of intrusion or disruption outside the Corporation's and the Bank's control include internet service providers, electronic mail portal providers, social media portals, distant-server (or \"cloud\") service providers, electronic data security providers, telecommunications companies and smart phone manufacturers.. Our business is technology dependent and an inability to invest in technological improvements may adversely affect results of operations and financial condition.. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services, which may require substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services. In addition to enhancing customer service, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and results in reduced costs, although a financial institution's initial investment in a technology product or service may represent a significant incremental cost. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to create synergies in our operations through the use of technology and to facilitate the ability of customers to engage in financial transactions in a manner that enhances the customer experience. We cannot assure that technological improvements will increase operational efficiency or that we will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers, which may cause the Corporation to lose market share or incur additional expense.. Changes in accounting standards and management's selection of accounting methods, including assumptions and estimates, could materially affect our financial statements.. From time to time, the SEC and FASB change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Corporation's financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially affect how the Corporation records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, the Corporation could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in changes to previously reported financial results, or a cumulative charge to retained earnings. In addition, management is required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our financial statements, including determining the fair value of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. If the assumptions or estimates are incorrect, the Corporation may experience unexpected material consequences.. We rely heavily on our management team and the unexpected loss of key officers may adversely affect our operations.. We believe that our growth and future success will depend in large part on the skills of our executive officers. We also depend upon the experience of the officers of our subsidiaries and on their relationships with the communities they serve. The loss of the services of one or more of these officers could disrupt our operations and impair our ability to implement our business strategy, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The success of our business strategies depends on our ability to identify and recruit individuals with experience and relationships in our primary markets.. The successful implementation of our business strategy will require us to continue to attract, hire, motivate and retain skilled personnel to develop new customer relationships as well as new financial products and services. The market for qualified management personnel is competitive. In addition, the process of identifying and recruiting individuals with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategy is often lengthy, and we may not be able to effectively integrate these individuals into our operations. Our inability to identify, recruit and retain talented personnel to manage our operations effectively and in a timely manner could limit our growth, which could materially adversely affect our business.. Our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture as we grow, we could lose the beneficial aspects fostered by our culture, which could harm our business.. We believe that a critical contributor to our success has been our corporate culture, which focuses on building personal relationships with our customers. As our organization grows, and we are required to implement more complex organizational management structures, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain the beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. This could negatively affect our future success.. 20. Table of Contents. Risks Related to the Regulation of the Corporation. Compliance with laws, regulations and supervisory guidance, both new and existing, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to numerous laws, regulations and supervision from both federal and state agencies. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in financial, structural and operational penalties, including receivership. In addition, establishing systems and processes to achieve compliance with these laws and regulations may increase our costs and/or limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities.. Laws and regulations, and any interpretations and applications with respect thereto, generally are intended to benefit consumers, borrowers and depositors, but not stockholders. The legislative and regulatory environment is beyond our control, may change rapidly and unpredictably and may negatively influence our revenues, costs, earnings, and capital levels. Our success depends on our ability to maintain compliance with both existing and new laws and regulations.. Future legislation, regulation and government policy could affect the banking industry as a whole, including the Corporation's business and results of operations, in ways that are difficult to predict. In addition, the Corporation's results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in the way in which existing statutes and regulations are interpreted or applied by courts and government agencies.. The Dodd-Frank Act could continue to increase our regulatory compliance burden and associated costs, place restrictions on certain products and services, and limit our future capital raising strategies.. A wide range of regulatory initiatives directed at the financial services industry have been proposed in recent years. One of those initiatives, the Dodd-Frank Act, represents a sweeping overhaul of the financial services industry regulatory environment within the United States and implements significant changes in the financial regulatory landscape, including through regulations issued pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, that will affect all financial institutions, including the Corporation. The Dodd-Frank Act and regulations adopted pursuant and related thereto have increased and will likely continue to increase our regulatory compliance burden and may have a material adverse effect on us, by increasing the costs associated with our regulatory examinations and compliance measures. The federal regulatory agencies, and particularly bank regulatory agencies, have been given significant discretion in drafting the Dodd-Frank Act's implementing rules and regulations, some of which have not been finalized. Consequently, the complete effect of the Dodd-Frank Act will depend on the final implementing rules and regulations, and it remains too early to fully assess the complete effect of the Dodd-Frank Act and related regulatory rulemaking processes on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. The Dodd-Frank Act increases regulatory supervision and examination of bank holding companies and their banking and non-banking subsidiaries, which could increase our regulatory compliance burden and costs and restrict our ability to generate revenues from non-banking operations. The Dodd-Frank Act imposes more stringent capital requirements on bank holding companies, which when considered in connection with the Basel III Final Rules and related regulatory capital rules could significantly limit our future capital strategies. The Dodd-Frank Act also increases regulation of derivatives and hedging transactions, which could limit our ability to enter into, or increase the costs associated with, interest rate hedging transactions.. The CFPB may increase our regulatory compliance burden and could affect the consumer financial products and services that we offer.. Among the Dodd-Frank Act's significant regulatory changes, it created a new financial consumer protection agency, the CFPB.  The CFPB is reshaping the consumer financial laws through rulemaking and enforcement of the Dodd-Frank Act's prohibitions against unfair, deceptive and abusive consumer finance products or practices, which are directly affecting the business operations of financial institutions offering consumer financial products or services, including the Corporation.  This agency's broad rulemaking authority includes identifying practices or acts that are unfair, deceptive or abusive in connection with any consumer financial transaction, financial product or service.  Although the CFPB has jurisdiction over banks with $10 billion or greater in assets, rules, regulations and policies issued by the CFPB may also. 21. Table of Contents. apply to the Corporation or its subsidiaries by virtue of the adoption of such policies and best practices by the Federal Reserve and the FDIC.  Further, the CFPB may include its own examiners in regulatory examinations by the Corporation's primary regulators. The total costs and limitations related to this additional regulatory agency and the limitations and restrictions that will be placed upon the Corporation with respect to its consumer product and service offerings have yet to be determined in their entirety.  However, these costs, limitations and restrictions are producing, and may continue to produce, significant, material effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Basel III Final Rules require higher levels of capital and liquid assets, which could adversely affect the Corporation's net income and return on equity.. The Basel III Final Rules and related changes to the standardized calculations of risk-weighted assets are complex and create additional compliance burdens, especially for community banks. The Basel III Final Rules require bank holding companies and their subsidiaries, such as the Corporation and C&F Bank, to maintain significantly more capital as a result of higher required capital levels and more demanding regulatory capital risk weightings and calculations. As a result of the Basel III Final Rules, many community banks could be forced to limit banking operations, activities and growth of loan portfolios, in order to focus on retention of earnings to improve capital levels. The Corporation believes that it maintains sufficient levels of Tier 1 and Common Equity Tier 1 capital to comply with the Basel III Final Rules as fully implemented. However, the Corporation can offer no assurances with regard to the ultimate effect of the Basel III Final Rules, and satisfying increased capital requirements imposed by the Basel III Final Rules may require the Corporation to limit its banking operations, retain net income or reduce dividends to improve regulatory capital levels, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our earnings are significantly affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies.. The policies of the Federal Reserve affect us significantly. The Federal Reserve regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies directly and indirectly influence the rate of interest earned on loans and paid on borrowings and interest-bearing deposits and can also affect the value of financial instruments we hold. Those policies determine to a significant extent our cost of funds for lending and investing. Changes in those policies are beyond our control and are difficult to predict. Federal Reserve policies can also affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. For example, a tightening of the money supply by the Federal Reserve could reduce the demand for a borrower's products and services. This could adversely affect the borrower's earnings and ability to repay a loan, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to the Corporation's Common Stock. Our common stock price may be volatile, which could result in losses to our investors.. Our common stock price has been volatile in the past, and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate in the future. These factors include, but are not limited to, actual or anticipated variations in earnings, changes in analysts' recommendations or projections with regard to our common stock or the markets and businesses in which we operate, operations and stock performance of other companies deemed to be our peers, and reports of trends and concerns and other issues related to the financial services industry. Fluctuations in our common stock price may be unrelated to our performance. General market declines or market volatility in the future, especially in the financial institutions sector, could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices.. Future sales of our common stock by shareholders or the perception that those sales could occur may cause our common stock price to decline.. Although our common stock is listed for trading on NASDAQ Global Select Market, the trading volume in our common stock may be lower than that of other larger financial institutions. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of the common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the potential for lower relative trading volume in our common stock, significant sales of the common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales may. 22. Table of Contents. occur, could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline or to be lower than it otherwise might be in the absence of these sales or perceptions.. Future issuances of our common stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could be dilutive.. We may issue additional shares of common stock or securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, shares of our common stock. Issuances of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the expectation that such issuances might occur, including in connection with acquisitions, could materially adversely affect the market price of the shares of our common stock and could be dilutive to shareholders. Any decision we make to issue common stock in the future will depend on market conditions and other factors, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing, or nature of possible future issuances of our common stock. Accordingly, our shareholders bear the risk that future issuances of our securities will reduce the market price of the common stock and dilute their stock holdings in the Corporation.. The Corporation relies on dividends from its subsidiary for substantially all of its revenue.. The Corporation is a bank holding company that conducts substantially all of its operations through the Bank and the Bank's subsidiaries. As a result, the Corporation relies on dividends from the Bank for substantially all of its revenues. There are various regulatory restrictions on the ability of the Bank to pay dividends or make other payments to the Corporation, and the Corporation's right to participate in a distribution of assets upon the Bank's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the Bank's creditors. If the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Corporation, the Corporation may not be able to service its outstanding borrowings and other debt, pay its other obligations or pay a cash dividend to the holders of the Corporation's common stock, and the Corporation's business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Further, although the Corporation has historically paid cash dividends to holders of its common stock, holders of common stock are not entitled to receive dividends and regulatory or economic factors may cause the Corporation's Board of Directors to consider, among other actions, the reduction of dividends paid on the Corporation's common stock even if the Bank continues to pay dividends to the Corporation."
