[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. We face many challenges and risks in the industry in which we operate. Before investing in our common stock you should carefully consider each of the following risk factors and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report, including under the section titled \"Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements\", and in our other reports filed with the SEC, and the documents and other information incorporated by reference herein and therein, for a detailed discussion of known material factors which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risks and uncertainties described are not the only ones we face. Additional risk factors not presently known to us or which we currently consider immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition or future results. If any of these risks were actually to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Business and Financial Condition. Our business is cyclical and dependent upon conditions in the oil and natural gas industry that impact the level of exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas and capital expenditures by oil and natural gas companies. Our customers' willingness to undertake drilling, completion and production activities depends largely upon prevailing industry conditions that are influenced by numerous factors that are beyond our control. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. We depend on our customers' willingness to make operating and capital expenditures to explore for, develop and produce oil and natural gas. If these expenditures decline, our business will suffer. The oil and gas industry has traditionally been volatile, is highly sensitive to supply and demand cycles and is influenced by a combination of long-term, short-term and cyclical trends. Our customers' willingness to conduct drilling, completion and production activities depends largely upon prevailing industry conditions that are influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, such as:. • the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, including current natural gas storage capacity and usage;. • the current and expected future prices for oil and natural gas and the perceived stability and sustainability of those prices;. • the supply of and demand for hydraulic fracturing and other well service equipment in the continental United States;. • the level of global and domestic oil and natural gas inventories;. • the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas;. • the ability or willingness of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (\"OPEC\") to set and maintain production levels for oil;. • public pressure on, and legislative and regulatory interest within, federal, state and local governments to stop, significantly limit or regulate hydraulic fracturing activities;. • the expected rates of decline of current oil and natural gas production;. • lead times associated with acquiring equipment and products and availability of personnel;. • regulation of drilling activity;. • the availability of water resources, suitable proppant and chemicals in sufficient quantities for use in hydraulic fracturing fluids;. • the discovery and development rates of new oil and natural gas reserves;. • available pipeline and other transportation capacity;. • weather conditions, including hurricanes that can affect oil and natural gas operations over a wide area;. • political instability in oil and natural gas producing countries;. • domestic and worldwide economic conditions;. • technical advances affecting energy consumption;. • the price and availability of alternative fuels; and. • merger and divestiture activity among oil and natural gas producers.. Volatility or weakness in oil prices or natural gas prices (or the perception that oil prices or natural gas prices will decline) generally leads to decreased spending by our customers, which in turn negatively impacts drilling, completion and production activity. In particular, the demand for new or existing drilling, completion and production work is driven by available investment capital for such work. When these capital investments decline, our customers' demand for our services declines. Because these types of services can be easily \"started\" and \"stopped,\" and oil and natural gas producers generally tend to be less risk tolerant when commodity prices are low or volatile, we typically experience a more rapid decline in demand for our services compared with demand for other types of energy services. Any negative impact on the spending patterns of our customers may cause lower pricing and utilization for our core service lines, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 18. Spending by exploration and production companies can also be impacted by conditions in the capital markets. Limitations on the availability of capital, or higher costs of capital, for financing expenditures may cause exploration and production companies to make additional reductions to capital budgets in the future even if oil prices remain at current levels or natural gas prices increase from current levels. Any such cuts in spending may cause our customers to curtail their drilling programs, including completion and production activities and any discretionary spending on well services, which may result in a reduction in the demand for our services, the rates we can charge and the utilization of our assets. Moreover, reduced discovery rates of new oil and natural gas reserves, or a decrease in the development rate of reserves, in our market areas, whether due to increased governmental regulation, limitations on exploration and drilling activity or other factors, could also have a material adverse impact on our business, even in a stronger oil and natural gas price environment.. Fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices could adversely affect drilling, completion and production activities by oil and natural gas companies and our revenues, cash flows and profitability. If oil and natural gas prices remain volatile, or if oil or natural gas prices decline, the demand for our services could be adversely affected.. The demand for our services depends on the level of spending by oil and gas companies for drilling, completion and production activities, which are affected by short-term and long-term trends in oil and natural gas prices, including current and anticipated oil and natural gas prices. Oil and natural gas prices, as well as the level of drilling, completion and production activities, historically have been extremely volatile and are expected to continue to be so. For example, during 2016, NYMEX crude oil prices reached a high of $54.06 per barrel and a low of $26.21 per barrel, and during 2017 NYMEX crude oil prices ranged from $42.53 to $60.42 per barrel. In line with the sustained weakness and volatility in oil prices over the course of 2016, we experienced a significant decline in drilling, completion and production activities across our customer base, which resulted in reduced demand and increased competition and pricing pressure to varying degrees across our service lines and operating areas.. Worldwide military, political and economic events, including initiatives by OPEC, affect both the demand for, and the supply of, oil and natural gas. Weather conditions, governmental regulation (both in the United States and elsewhere), levels of consumer demand, the availability of pipeline capacity and other factors that will be beyond our control may also affect the supply of, demand for, and price of oil and natural gas. Volatility or weakness in oil prices or natural gas prices (or the perception that oil prices or natural gas prices will decrease) affects the spending patterns of our customers and may result in the drilling of fewer new wells or lower completion and production spending on existing wells. This, in turn, could result in lower demand for our services and cause lower pricing and utilization levels for our services. If oil and natural gas prices decline, or if there is a further reduction in drilling and completion activities, the demand for our services and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. We participate in a capital-intensive industry, and we may not be able to finance future growth of our operations or future acquisitions, which could adversely affect our operations and financial position.. The successful execution of our growth strategy depends on our ability to generate sufficient cash flows and our access to capital, both of which are impacted by numerous factors beyond our control, including financial, business, economic and other factors, such as volatility in commodity prices and pressure from competitors. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows or to obtain additional capital on favorable terms or at all, we may be unable to continue growing our business, conduct necessary corporate activities, take advantage of business opportunities that arise or engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest, which may adversely impact our ability to sustain or improve our current level of profitability. Furthermore, any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms or at all, and also could constitute an event of default under our Amended Credit Facility (as defined below). Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations or to obtain alternative financing could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.. The oilfield services industry is highly competitive with significant potential for excess capacity. We may not be able to meet the specific needs of oil and natural gas exploration and production companies at competitive prices which could adversely affect our business and operating results.. The oilfield services industry is highly competitive. The principal competitive factors in our markets are generally price, technical expertise, the availability and condition of equipment, work force capability, safety record, reputation and experience. We compete with large national and multi-national companies that have longer operating histories, greater financial resources and greater name recognition than we do and who can operate and have operated at a loss in the regions in which we operate. Additionally, some of our competitors provide a broader array of services and/or have a stronger presence in more geographic markets. Our reputation for safety and quality may not be sufficient to enable us to maintain our competitive position, and our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and services and changes. 19. in customer requirements. As a result of competition, we may lose market share or be unable to maintain or increase prices for our present services or to acquire additional business opportunities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Increases in market capacity can lead to active price competition, which could adversely affect our business and utilization levels.. Significant increases in overall market capacity have caused active price competition and led to lower pricing and utilization levels for our services. Completion and well servicing equipment, such as hydraulic fracturing fleets, can be moved from one region to another in response to changes in levels of activity and market conditions, which may result in an oversupply of equipment in an area. For example, natural gas prices declined sharply in 2009 and remained depressed through 2015, which resulted in reduced drilling activity in natural gas shale plays. This drove many oilfield services companies operating in those areas to relocate their equipment to more oil- and liquids-rich shale plays, such as the Eagle Ford Shale and Permian Basin. As drilling activity and completion capacity migrated into the oil- and liquids-rich regions from the gas-rich regions, the increase in supply relative to demand negatively impacted pricing and utilization of our services, particularly for hydraulic fracturing services. Furthermore, as we entered 2015, we experienced a slowdown in activity across our customer base as operators reacted to the rapid decline in commodity prices that began during the fourth quarter of 2014. The entire year proved to be extremely challenging for the North American oilfield services industry due to the sustained weakness and volatility in oil prices at levels that caused severe reductions in drilling, completion and production activities, which in turn resulted in reduced demand and increased competition and pricing pressure to varying degrees across our service lines and operating areas.. Adoption of fresh start accounting beginning in the first quarter of 2017 limits the comparability of our current and future financial condition and results of operations to our financial condition and results of operations for periods prior to our emergence from the Chapter 11 Proceeding.. Upon our emergence from the Chapter 11 Proceeding, we adopted fresh start accounting in accordance with the provisions set forth in Accounting Standards Codification Topic 852 - Reorganizations. Our consolidated financial statements also reflect all of the transactions contemplated by the Restructuring Plan. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations subsequent to emergence are not comparable to the financial condition or results of operations reflected in our historical financial statements prior to emergence.. We may be unable to implement price increases or maintain existing prices on our core services.. We generate revenue from our core service lines, the majority of which is provided on a spot market basis. Pressure on pricing for our core services, including due to competition and industry and/or economic conditions, may impact, among other things, our ability to implement price increases or maintain pricing on our core services. We operate in a very competitive industry and, as a result, we may not always be successful in raising, or maintaining our existing prices. Additionally, during periods of increased market demand, a significant amount of new service capacity, including hydraulic fracturing equipment, may enter the market, which also puts pressure on the pricing of our services and limits our ability to increase or maintain prices. Furthermore, during periods of declining pricing for our services, we may not be able to reduce our costs accordingly, which could further adversely affect our profitability.. Even when we are able to increase our prices, we may not be able to do so at a rate that is sufficient to offset such rising costs. Also, we may not be able to successfully increase prices without adversely affecting our activity levels. The inability to maintain our prices or to increase our prices as costs increase could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. We may not be able to service our debt obligations in accordance with their terms.. On January 6, 2017, we entered into a new revolving credit and security agreement (the \"New Credit Facility\").  We subsequently amended and restated the New Credit Facility in full pursuant to an amended and restated revolving credit and security agreement (the \"Amended Credit Facility\") on May 4, 2017.  Our ability to meet our debt service obligations under, and comply with the financial covenants contained in, our Amended Credit Facility or future debt agreements depends on our future performance, which is affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, including volatility in commodity prices and pressure from competitors. Should our revenues decline, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay our debt service obligations when due. Additionally, revenue, utilization and pricing level declines may result in our not being in compliance with one or more of the financial covenants under our Amended Credit Facility or future debt agreements in future periods. Any failure to satisfy our debt obligations or to comply with the applicable. 20. financial covenants could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects.. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations or should we fail to comply with, or obtain relief from, the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our Amended Credit Facility or future debt agreements, we may trigger an event of default. Upon such an event of default, our lenders may refuse to fund borrowings and have the right to terminate their commitments and potentially accelerate all of our outstanding debt. If an event of default occurs and the lenders under our Amended Credit Facility or future debt agreements accelerate the maturity of any loans or other debt outstanding. We may not be able to make all required payments or borrow sufficient funds to refinance such indebtedness. Even if new financing is available at that time it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us.. Any reduction of the borrowing base under our Amended Credit Facility could require us to repay that portion of indebtedness that exceeds the new borrowing base under our Amended Credit Facility earlier than anticipated, which could adversely impact our liquidity.. Our Amended Credit Facility allows us to borrow amounts up to the lesser of $200 million and a borrowing base based on the value of our accounts receivable and inventory. Currently, our borrowing base is $178.5 million. Reductions in accounts receivable and inventory due to events or market forces beyond our control could reduce the amount available to us under our Amended Credit Facility and could result in a redetermination, and potentially a reduction, of our borrowing bases under our Amended Credit Facility. If our Amended Credit Facility eventually becomes fully drawn, any reduction in the borrowing bases could require us to make mandatory prepayments under our Amended Credit Facility to the extent existing indebtedness under the Amended Credit Facility exceeds the borrowing base. We may have insufficient cash on hand to be able to make mandatory prepayments under our Amended Credit Facility. Any failure to repay indebtedness in excess of our borrowing bases in accordance with the terms of the Amended Credit Facility would constitute an event of default under the Amended Credit Facility. Such event of default would permit our lenders to accelerate our outstanding debt, which if actually accelerated, would become immediately due and payable and could permit our secured lenders to foreclose on any of our assets securing indebtedness.. We are subject to restrictive covenants in our Amended Credit Facility, which may restrict our operational flexibility.. The Amended Credit Facility governing our indebtedness contains, and future debt agreements may contain, financial and other restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to obtain future financings to withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general, conduct necessary corporate activities, take advantage of business opportunities that arise and/or to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests.. Specifically, our Amended Credit Facility includes a Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio and minimum liquidity threshold covenants and restrictive covenants that limit our ability and that of our subsidiaries to, among other things:. • sell or otherwise dispose of assets;. • make certain restricted payments and investments;. • create, incur, assume, suffer to exist or guarantee additional indebtedness;. • create, incur, assume, or suffer to exist liens on our assets;. • make capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions;. • repurchase, redeem or retire our capital shares;. • merge or consolidate, or transfer all or substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries;. • engage in specified transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates; and. • pursue other corporate activities.. We may be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations imposed on us by restrictive covenants under the Amended Credit Facility, which could: limit our ability to plan for, or react to, market conditions, to meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plan; and adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, enter into acquisitions or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest.. Please see \"Liquidity and Capital Resources - Description of Our Amended Credit Facility\" in Part II, Item 7 \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" for additional information about the Amended Credit Facility, including the financial and other restrictive covenants contained therein.. 21. We may become more leveraged and our indebtedness could adversely affect our operations and financial condition.. Our business is capital intensive and we may seek to raise debt capital to fund our business and growth strategy. Indebtedness could have negative consequences that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects, such as:. • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operating activities to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts, potential strategic acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;. • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund growth, working capital or capital expenditures, or to fulfill debt service requirements or other cash requirements;. • increasing our vulnerability to economic downturns and changing market conditions;. • placing us at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors that have less debt;. • to the extent that our debt is subject to floating interest rates, increasing our vulnerability to fluctuations in market interest rates; and. • preventing our ability to buy back our common stock or pay cash dividends.. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets, continued low commodity prices, our debt level and other factors may restrict our ability to raise capital on favorable terms, or at all.. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets, in particular with respect to companies in the energy sector, could limit our ability to access these markets or may significantly increase our cost to borrow. Continued low commodity prices, among other factors, have caused some lenders to increase interest rates, enact tighter lending standards which we may not satisfy as a result of our debt level or otherwise, refuse to refinance existing debt at maturity on favorable terms, or at all, and in certain instances have reduced or ceased to provide funding to borrowers. If we are unable to access the capital and credit markets on favorable terms or at all, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As a result of the implementation of our Restructuring Plan, we believe our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes may be subject to limitation under Section 382.. Under U.S. federal income tax law, a corporation is generally permitted to deduct from taxable income net operating losses (\"NOLs\") carried forward from prior years. As of December 31, 2017, we reported consolidated federal NOL carryforwards of approximately $1.1 billion.  Our ability to utilize our NOL carryforwards to offset future taxable income and to reduce U.S. federal income tax liability is subject to certain requirements and restrictions. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"), a corporation that undergoes an \"ownership change\" is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change NOLs to offset future taxable income. An ownership change generally occurs if one or more shareholders (or groups of shareholders) who are each deemed to own at least 5% of our stock have aggregate increases in their ownership of such stock of more than 50 percentage points over such stockholders' lowest ownership percentage during the testing period (generally a rolling three year period). We believe we experienced an ownership change in January 2017 as a result of the implementation of the Restructuring Plan and a subsequent ownership change occurred on or about June 30, 2017 and that our pre-change NOLs are subject to limitation under Section 382 of the Code as a result. Such limitation may cause U.S. federal income taxes to be paid earlier than otherwise would be paid if such limitation were not in effect and could cause our pre-change NOLs to expire unused, in each case reducing or eliminating the benefit of such NOLs. Similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes.. As a result of the implementation of our Restructuring Plan, NOLs and other tax attributes may be subject to reduction, causing less NOL or tax deductions to be available to offset future taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. As a result of consummating our Restructuring Plan, the obligations of the Predecessor with respect to the Original Credit Agreement (the \"Old C&J Debt\") were canceled and discharged and certain lenders were issued common stock in the reorganized Company (See Note 2 - Chapter 11 Proceeding and Emergence). This exchange may give rise to cancellation of debt income (\"CODI\") to the extent that the fair market value of the common stock and other rights exchanged with the lenders is less than the adjusted issue price of the Old C&J Debt. Other settlements with holders of Claims under the Restructuring Plan may have resulted in satisfaction of debts for less than the amount of the liability resulting in CODI. The Code provides that CODI arising under a discharge in a Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding is excluded from taxable income. A taxpayer excluding CODI under these circumstances may be required to reduce certain tax attributes, such as NOLs and depreciable basis by an amount up to the amount of excluded CODI (the \"Tax Attribute Reduction Rules\"). The consummation of the Restructuring Plan occurred in 2017, and any estimates around the related fair market value, the potential for CODI and any associated tax attribute reduction as determined by the Code will not be finalized until the 2017 tax return is filed in 2018. Our estimates are subject to change throughout this period.. 22. We may be adversely affected by uncertainty in the global financial markets and the deterioration of the financial condition of our customers.. Our future results may be impacted by the uncertainty caused by an economic downturn, volatility or deterioration in the debt and equity capital markets, inflation, deflation or other adverse economic conditions that may negatively affect us or parties with whom we do business resulting in a reduction in our customers' spending and their non-payment or inability to perform obligations owed to us, such as the failure of customers to honor their commitments or the failure of major suppliers to complete orders. Additionally, during times when the natural gas or crude oil markets weaken, our customers are more likely to experience financial difficulties, including being unable to access debt or equity financing, which could result in a reduction in our customers' spending for our services. In addition, in the course of our business we hold accounts receivable from our customers. In the event of the financial distress or bankruptcy of a customer, we could lose all or a portion of such outstanding accounts receivable associated with that customer. Further, if a customer was to enter into bankruptcy, it could also result in the cancellation of all or a portion of our service contracts with such customer at significant expense or loss of expected revenues to us.. Reliance upon a few large customers may adversely affect our revenue and operating results.. Our top ten customers represented approximately 40.7%, 46.0% and 53.6% of our consolidated revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. It is likely that we will continue to derive a significant portion of our revenue from a relatively small number of customers in the future. If a major customer fails to pay us, revenue would be impacted, and our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Additionally, if we were to lose any material customer, we may not be able to redeploy our equipment at similar utilization or pricing levels and such loss could have a material adverse effect on our business until the equipment is redeployed at similar utilization or pricing levels.. Delays in deliveries of key raw materials or increases in the cost of key raw materials could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We have established relationships with a limited number of suppliers of our raw materials (such as proppant, guar, chemicals or coiled tubing) and finished products (such as fluid-handling equipment). Should any of our current suppliers be unable to provide the necessary raw materials or finished products or otherwise fail to deliver the products in a timely manner and in the quantities required, any resulting delays in the provision of services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, increasing costs of certain raw materials, including guar, may negatively impact demand for our services or the profitability of our business operations. In the past, our industry faced sporadic shortages associated with hydraulic fracturing operations, such as proppant and guar, requiring work stoppages, which adversely impacted the operating results of several competitors. We may not be able to mitigate any future shortages of raw materials, including proppants.. We are vulnerable to the potential difficulties associated with growth, mergers, acquisitions and expansion.. We believe that our future success depends on our ability to take advantage of and manage the rapid growth that we have experienced, as well as the demands from increased responsibility on our management personnel. The following factors could present difficulties to us:. • lack of sufficient executive-level personnel;. • increased administrative burden;. • long lead times associated with acquiring additional equipment;. • ability to manage significant levels of idle equipment in sustained periods of depressed oil and natural gas prices; and. • ability to maintain the level of focused service attention that we have historically been able to provide to our customers.. In addition, in the future we may seek to grow our business through acquisitions that enhance our existing operations. The success of any completed acquisition will depend on our ability to integrate effectively the acquired business into our existing operations. The process of integrating acquired businesses may involve unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of our managerial and financial resources. Our operating results could be adversely affected if we do not successfully manage these potential difficulties in integrating the businesses we may acquire.. Our operations are subject to hazards inherent in the oilfield services industry.. Risks inherent to our industry, such as equipment defects, vehicle accidents, explosions and uncontrollable flows of gas or well fluids, can cause personal injury, loss of life, suspension of operations, damage to formations, damage to facilities,. 23. business interruption and damage to, or destruction of property, equipment and the environment. For example, transportation of heavy equipment creates the potential for our trucks to become involved in roadway accidents, which in turn could result in personal injury or property damages lawsuits being filed against us. In addition, our hydraulic fracturing and well completion services could become a source of spills or releases of fluids, including chemicals used during hydraulic fracturing activities, at the site where such services are performed, or could result in the discharge of such fluids into underground formations that were not targeted for fracturing or well completion activities, such as potable aquifers. These risks could expose us to substantial liability for personal injury, wrongful death, property damage, loss of oil and natural gas production, pollution and other environmental damages and could result in a variety of claims, losses and remedial obligations that could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The existence, frequency and severity of such incidents will affect operating costs, insurability and relationships with customers, employees and regulators. In particular, our customers may elect not to purchase our services if they view our safety record as unacceptable, which could cause us to lose customers and substantial revenue.. Our operational personnel have experienced accidents which have, in some instances, resulted in serious injuries. Our safety procedures may not always prevent such damages. Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover our liabilities. In addition, we may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable and commercially justifiable or on terms as favorable as our current arrangements. The occurrence of a significant uninsured claim, a claim in excess of the insurance coverage limits maintained by us or a claim at a time when we are not able to obtain liability insurance could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct normal business operations and on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Unsatisfactory safety performance may negatively affect our customer relationships and, to the extent we fail to retain existing customers or attract new customers, adversely impact our revenues.. Our ability to retain existing customers and attract new business is dependent on many factors, including our ability to demonstrate that we can reliably and safely operate our business in a manner that is consistent with applicable laws, rules and permits, which legal requirements are subject to change. Existing and potential customers consider the safety record of their third-party service providers to be of high importance in their decision to engage such providers. If one or more accidents were to occur at one of our operating sites, the affected customer may seek to terminate or cancel its use of our facilities or services and may be less likely to continue to use our services, which could cause us to lose substantial revenues. Furthermore, our ability to attract new customers may be impaired if they elect not to engage us because they view our safety record as unacceptable. In addition, it is possible that we will experience multiple or particularly severe accidents in the future, causing our safety record to deteriorate. This may be more likely as we continue to grow, if we experience high employee turnover or labor shortage, or hire inexperienced personnel to bolster our staffing needs.. We may be unable to employ a sufficient number of key employees, technical personnel and other skilled and qualified workers.. The delivery of our services and products requires personnel with specialized skills and experience who can perform physically demanding work. As a result of the volatility in the energy service industry and the demanding nature of the work, workers may choose to pursue employment in fields that offer a different work environment. Our ability to be productive and profitable will depend upon our ability to employ and retain skilled workers. In addition, our ability to expand our operations depends in part on our ability to increase the size of our skilled labor force. At times, demand for skilled workers in our geographic area of operations is high, and the supply is limited. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction of our skilled labor force, increases in the wage rates that we pay, or both. If either of these events were to occur, our capacity and profitability could be diminished, and our growth potential could be impaired.. We depend heavily on the efforts of our executive officers, managers and other key employees to manage our operations. The unexpected loss or unavailability of key members of management or technical personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects or results of operations.. Weather conditions could materially impair our business.. Our operations may be adversely affected by severe weather events and natural disasters. Furthermore, our customers' operations may be adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions. For example, prolonged periods of drought, hurricanes, tropical storms, heavy snow, ice or rain may result in customer delays and other disruptions to our services. Repercussions of severe weather conditions may include:. • curtailment of services;. 24. • weather-related damage to facilities and equipment, resulting in suspension of operations;. • inability to deliver equipment, personnel and products to job sites in accordance with contract schedules;. • increase in the price of insurance; and. • loss of productivity.. These constraints could also delay our operations, reduce our revenue and materially increase our operating and capital costs.. Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays as well as adversely affect demand for our support services.. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of natural gas and/or oil from dense subsurface rock formations. The hydraulic fracturing process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into the formation to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. We commonly perform hydraulic fracturing services for our customers.. Hydraulic fracturing typically is regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions, but the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority pursuant to the SDWA over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel fuel and issued permitting guidance in February 2014 that applies to such activities. Also, in May 2014, the EPA published an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking under the Toxic Substances and Control Act (\"TSCA\") that would require the disclosure of chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing fluids; however, to date no further action has been taken and additional rulemaking under TSCA appears unlikely at this time. In addition, in June 2016, the EPA finalized regulations that prohibit the discharge of wastewater from hydraulic fracturing operations to publicly owned wastewater treatment plants.. In December 2016, the EPA released its final report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources. The final report concluded that \"water cycle\" activities associated with hydraulic fracturing may impact drinking water resources under some circumstances,\" noting that the following hydraulic fracturing water cycle activities and local- or regional-scale factors are more likely than others to result in more frequent or more severe impacts: water withdrawals for fracturing in times or areas of low water availability; surface spills during the management of fracturing fluids, chemicals or produced water; injection of fracturing fluids into wells with inadequate mechanical integrity; injection of fracturing fluids directly into groundwater resources; discharge of inadequately treated fracturing wastewater to surface waters; and disposal or storage of fracturing wastewater in unlined pits. Since the report did not find a direct link between hydraulic fracturing itself and contamination of groundwater resources, this years-long study report does not appear to provide any basis for further regulation of hydraulic fracturing at the federal level.. Various state and local governments have implemented, or are considering, increased regulatory oversight of hydraulic fracturing through additional permit requirements, operational restrictions, disclosure requirements, well construction, and temporary or permanent bans on hydraulic fracturing in certain areas. For example, in May 2013, the Texas Railroad Commission adopted new rules governing well casing, cementing and other standards for ensuring that hydraulic fracturing operations do not contaminate nearby water resources. In addition, state and federal regulatory agencies have recently focused on a possible connection between the disposal of wastewater in underground injection wells and the increased occurrence of seismic activity, and regulatory agencies at all levels are continuing to study the possible linkage between oil and gas activity and induced seismicity. In response to these concerns, regulators in some states are seeking to impose additional requirements on hydraulic fracturing fluid disposal practices, including restrictions on the operations of produced water disposal wells and imposing more stringent requirements on the permitting of such wells. The adoption and implementation of any new laws or regulations that restrict our ability to dispose of produced water gathered from our customer's activities by limiting volumes, disposal rates, disposal well locations or otherwise, or requiring us to shut down disposal wells, could have a material adverse effect on our fluid transportation business, financial condition and results of operations.. Local governments also may seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular or prohibit the performance of well drilling in general or hydraulic fracturing in particular. If new federal, state or local laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such legal requirements could result in delays, eliminate certain drilling and injection activities and make it more difficult or costly to perform hydraulic fracturing. Any such regulations limiting or prohibiting hydraulic fracturing could result in decreased oil and natural gas exploration and production activities and, therefore, adversely affect demand for our services and our business. Such laws or regulations could also materially increase our costs of compliance and doing business.. The adoption of new laws or regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or otherwise limiting, the hydraulic fracturing process could make it more difficult to complete oil and natural gas wells in shale formations, increase our costs of. 25. compliance and adversely affect the hydraulic fracturing services that we render for our exploration and production customers. In addition, if hydraulic fracturing becomes regulated at the federal level as a result of federal legislation or regulatory initiatives by the EPA, fracturing activities could become subject to additional permitting requirements, and also to attendant permitting delays and potential increases in cost, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of GHGs could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for our services.. The EPA has determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other GHGs present an endangerment to the environment because emissions of such gases are contributing to the warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on these findings, the EPA adopted regulations that restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act including one that requires a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and another that requires certain preconstruction and operating permit reviews for GHG emissions from certain large stationary sources. The EPA has also adopted rules requiring the monitoring and reporting of GHGs from specified GHG emission sources, including, among others, certain oil and natural gas production facilities, on an annual basis. More recently, in June 2016, the EPA finalized regulations under the Clean Air Act that address emissions of methane from equipment and processes across the source category, including hydraulically fractured oil and natural gas well completions, and also imposes leak detection and repair requirements on operators. However, in June 2017 the EPA published a proposed rule to stay certain portions of the June 2016 standards for two years and re-consider the entirety of the 2016 methane standards. The EPA has not yet published a final rule and, as a result, the 2016 rule remains in effect, but the future implementation of that rule is uncertain at this time. The BLM finalized similar rules in November 2016 that limit methane emissions from new and existing oil and gas operations on federal lands through limitations on the venting and flaring of gas, as well as enhanced leak detection and repair requirements. However, in December 2017, BLM finalized a suspension of certain requirements of the rule until January 17, 2019. That suspension is now being challenged in court, and substantial uncertainty exists with respect to implementation of the rule.. From time to time the U.S. Congress has considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, and almost one-half of the states have established GHG cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring major sources of emissions or major producers of fuels, to acquire and surrender emission allowances. The number of allowances available for purchase is reduced each year in an effort to achieve the overall greenhouse gas emission reduction goal. In addition, in 2015, the U.S. participated in the United Nations Conference on Climate Change, which led to the creation of the Paris Agreement. In August 2017, the United States issued formal notice that it was withdrawing from the Paris Agreement.  The Paris Agreement has a four year exit process but the United States' adherence to this process is uncertain at this time.. Any new federal, regional or state restrictions on emissions of GHGs that may be imposed in areas in which we conduct business could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions on our customers. Such actions could also potentially make our customers' products more expensive and thus reduce demand for those products, which could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our services and our business. Recently, activists concerned about the potential effects of climate change have directed their attention at sources of funding for fossil-fuel energy companies, which has resulted in certain financial institutions, funds and other sources of capital restricting or eliminating their investment in oil and natural gas activities. Ultimately, this could make it more difficult to secure funding for exploration and production activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Notwithstanding potential risks related to climate change, the International Energy Agency estimates that global energy demand will continue to rise and will not peak until after 2040 and that oil and gas will continue to represent a substantial percentage of global energy use over that time. Finally, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events. If any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our results of operations if they were to damage our equipment or facilities.. We are subject to extensive and costly environmental, and occupational health and safety laws, and regulations that may require us to take actions that will adversely affect our results of operations.. Our business is significantly affected by stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the emission or discharge of substances into the environment, protection of the environment and worker health and safety. Any failure by us to comply with such environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations may result in governmental authorities taking actions against our business that could adversely impact our operations and financial condition, including the following:. • issuance of administrative, civil and criminal penalties;. • modification, denial or revocation of permits or other authorizations;. • imposition of limitations on our operations or orders prohibiting our operations altogether; and. 26. • performance of site investigatory, remedial or other corrective actions.. As part of our business, we handle, transport, and dispose of a variety of fluids and substances used by our customers in connection with their oil and natural gas exploration and production activities. We also generate and dispose of nonhazardous and hazardous wastes. The generation, handling, transportation, and disposal of these fluids, substances, and wastes are regulated by a number of laws, including CERCLA, RCRA, Clean Water Act, SDWA and analogous state laws. Under RCRA, the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes are regulated. RCRA currently exempts many exploration and production wastes from classification as hazardous waste. However, these oil and gas exploration and production wastes may still be regulated under state solid waste laws and regulations, and it is possible that certain oil and natural gas exploration and production wastes now classified as non-hazardous could be classified as hazardous waste in the future. For example, in December 2016, the EPA and environmental groups entered into a consent decree to address EPA's alleged failure to timely assess its RCRA Subtitle D criteria regulations exempting certain exploration and production related oil and gas wastes from regulation as hazardous wastes under RCRA. The consent decree requires EPA to propose a rulemaking no later than March 15, 2019, for revision of certain Subtitle D criteria regulations pertaining to oil and gas wastes or to sign a determination that revision of the regulations is not necessary. If EPA proposes rulemaking for revised oil and gas regulations, the Consent Decree requires that the EPA take final action following notice and comment rulemaking no later than July 15, 2021.. Failure to properly handle, transport or dispose of these materials or otherwise conduct our operations in accordance with these and other environmental laws could expose us to liability for governmental penalties, third-party claims, cleanup costs associated with releases of such materials, damages to natural resources, and other damages, as well as potentially impair our ability to conduct our operations. Moreover, certain of these environmental laws impose joint and several, strict liability even though our conduct in performing such activities was lawful at the time it occurred or the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior operators or other third parties was the basis for such liability. In addition, environmental laws and regulations are subject to frequent change and if existing laws, regulatory requirements or enforcement policies were to change in the future, we may be required to make significant unanticipated capital and operating expenditures.. Anti-indemnity provisions enacted by many states may restrict or prohibit a party's indemnification of us.. We typically enter into agreements with our customers governing the provision of our services, which usually include certain indemnification provisions for losses resulting from operations. Such agreements may require each party to indemnify the other against certain claims regardless of the negligence or other fault of the indemnified party; however, many states place limitations on contractual indemnity agreements, particularly agreements that indemnify a party against the consequences of its own negligence. Furthermore, certain states, including Texas, New Mexico and Wyoming, have enacted statutes generally referred to as \"oilfield anti-indemnity acts\" expressly prohibiting certain indemnity agreements contained in or related to oilfield services agreements. Such anti-indemnity acts may restrict or void a party's indemnification of us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects and results of operations.. More stringent trucking regulations may increase our costs and negatively impact our results of operations.. As part of the services we provide, we operate as a motor carrier and therefore are subject to regulation by the DOT, and by other various state agencies. These regulatory authorities exercise broad powers, governing activities such as the authorization to engage in motor carrier operations and regulatory safety, and hazardous materials labeling, placarding and marking. There are additional regulations specifically relating to the trucking industry, including testing and specification of equipment and product handling requirements. In addition, the trucking industry is subject to possible regulatory and legislative changes that may affect the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices or by changing the demand for common or contract carrier services or the cost of providing truckload services. Some of these possible changes include increasingly stringent environmental regulations, changes in the hours of service regulations which govern the amount of time a driver may drive in any specific period, require onboard black box recorder devices or limits on vehicle weight and size. For example, in December 2016, the DOT finalized minimum training standards for new drivers seeking a commercial driver's license. Certain motor vehicle operators are required to register with the DOT. This registration requires an acceptable operating record. The DOT periodically conducts compliance reviews and may revoke registration privileges based on certain safety performance criteria, and a revocation could result in a suspension of operations. Since 2010, the DOT has pursued its Compliance, Safety, Accountability (\"CSA\") program, in an effort to improve commercial truck and bus safety. A component of CSA is the Safety Measurement System (\"SMS\"), which analyzes all safety violations recorded by federal and state law enforcement personnel to determine a carrier's safety performance. The SMS is intended to allow DOT to identify carriers with safety issues and intervene to address those problems.. 27. Interstate motor carrier operations are subject to safety requirements prescribed by the DOT. To a large degree, intrastate motor carrier operations are subject to state safety regulations that mirror federal regulations. Such matters as weight and dimension of equipment are also subject to federal and state regulations.. From time to time, various legislative proposals are introduced, including proposals to increase federal, state or local taxes, including taxes on motor fuels, which may increase our costs or adversely impact the recruitment of drivers. We cannot predict whether, or in what form, any increase in such taxes applicable to us will be enacted.. New technology may hurt our competitive position.. The energy service industry is subject to the introduction of new techniques and services using new technologies, some of which may be subject to patent protection. As competitors and others use or develop new technologies or technologies comparable to ours in the future, we may lose market share or be placed at a competitive disadvantage. Further, we may face competitive pressure to implement or acquire certain new technologies at a substantial cost. Some of our competitors have greater financial, technical and personnel resources than we do, which may allow them to gain technological advantages or implement new technologies before we can. Additionally, we may be unable to implement new technologies or products at all, on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. Limits on our ability to effectively use or implement new technologies may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our assets require significant amounts of capital for maintenance, upgrades and refurbishment and may require significant capital expenditures for new equipment.. Our hydraulic fracturing fleets and other completion service-related equipment require significant capital investment in maintenance, upgrades and refurbishment to maintain their competitiveness. The costs of components and labor required to maintain our fleets have increased in the past and may increase in the future with increases in demand, which will require us to incur additional costs to make our remaining active fleets operational. Our fleets and other equipment typically do not generate revenue while they are undergoing maintenance, refurbishment or upgrades. Any maintenance, upgrade or refurbishment project for our assets could increase our indebtedness or reduce cash available for other opportunities. Further, such projects may require proportionally greater capital investments as a percentage of total asset value, which may make such projects difficult to finance on acceptable terms. To the extent we are unable to fund such projects, we may have less equipment available for service or our equipment may not be attractive to potential or current customers. Additionally, competition or advances in technology within our industry may require us to update or replace existing fleets or build or acquire new fleets. Such demands on our capital or reductions in demand for our hydraulic fracturing fleets and other completion service related equipment and the increase in cost to maintain labor necessary for such maintenance and improvement, in each case, could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity position, financial condition, prospects and results of operations and may increase the cost to make our inactive fleets operational.. We are subject to certain requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we fail to comply with the requirements of Section 404 or if we or our auditors identify and report material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, our investors may lose confidence in our reported information and our stock price may be negatively affected.. As of December 31, 2017, we are required to comply with certain provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404 requires that we document and test our internal control over financial reporting and issue our management's assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. This section also requires that our independent registered public accounting firm issue an attestation report on such internal control. If we fail to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or if we or our auditors identify and report material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, the accuracy and timeliness of the filing of our annual and quarterly reports may be materially adversely affected and could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. In addition, a material weakness in the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting could result in an increased chance of fraud and the loss of customers, reduce our ability to obtain financing and require additional expenditures to comply with these requirements, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar foreign anti-bribery laws.. The United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the \"FCPA\") and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries and partners from making, offering or authorizing improper payments to non-U.S. government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Although we currently have no international operations, we previously did business and may do business in the future in countries or regions where strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Our employees, intermediaries, and partners may face, directly or. 28. indirectly, corrupt demands by government officials, political parties and officials, tribal or insurgent organizations, or private entities in the countries in which we operate or may operate in the future. As a result, we face the risk that an unauthorized payment or offer of payment could be made by one of our employees, intermediaries, or partners even if such parties are not always subject to our control or are not themselves subject to the FCPA or other anti-bribery laws to which we may be subject. We are committed to doing business in accordance with applicable anti-bribery laws and have implemented policies and procedures concerning compliance with such laws. Our existing safeguards and any future improvements, however, may prove to be less than effective, and our employees, intermediaries, and partners may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA and other anti-bribery laws (either due to our acts, the acts of our intermediaries or partners, or our inadvertence) may result in criminal and civil sanctions and could subject us to other liabilities in the U.S. and elsewhere. Even allegations of such violations could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our business and operations.. Our operations are subject to cyber-attacks or other cyber incidents that could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition.. Our operations are becoming increasingly dependent on digital technologies and services. We use these technologies for internal purposes, including data storage, processing, and transmissions, as well as in our interactions with customers and suppliers. Digital technologies are subject to the risk of cyber-attacks and other cyber incidents. If our systems for protecting against cybersecurity risks prove not to be sufficient, we could be adversely affected by, among other things: loss of or damage to intellectual property, proprietary or confidential information, or customer, supplier, or employee data; interruption of our business operations; and increased costs required to prevent, respond to, or mitigate cybersecurity attacks. These risks could harm our reputation and our relationships with customers, suppliers, employees, and other third parties, and may result in claims against us. In addition, these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. The concentration of our capital stock ownership among our largest stockholders and their affiliates will limit your ability to influence corporate matters.. A large percentage of our shares of common stock are held by a relatively small number of investors whose interests may conflict. Consequently, these holders (each of whom we refer to as a \"principal stockholder\") may have significant influence over all matters that require approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership and the rights of our principal stockholders will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, actions may be taken that you may not view as beneficial.. Furthermore, conflicts of interest could arise in the future between us, on the one hand, and our principal stockholders and their respective affiliates, including portfolio companies, on the other hand, concerning among other things, potential competitive business activities or business opportunities. Several of our principal stockholders are private equity firms or investment funds in the business of making investments in entities in a variety of industries. As a result, our principal stockholders' existing and future portfolio companies may compete with us for investment or business opportunities. These conflicts of interest may not be resolved in our favor.. Certain of our directors have significant duties with, and spend significant time serving, entities that may compete with us in seeking acquisitions and business opportunities and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in allocating time or pursuing business opportunities.. Certain of our directors, who are responsible for managing the direction of our operations and acquisition activities, hold positions of responsibility with other entities. The existing positions held by these directors may give rise to fiduciary or other duties that are in conflict with the duties they owe to us. These directors may become aware of business opportunities that may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as to the other entities with which they are or may become affiliated. Due to these existing and potential future affiliations, they may present potential business opportunities to other entities prior to presenting them to us, which could cause additional conflicts of interest. They may also decide that certain opportunities are more appropriate for other entities with which they are affiliated and, as a result, they may elect not to present those opportunities to us. These conflicts may not be resolved in our favor.. 29. Future sales or the availability for sale of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that these sales may occur, could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future sales of equity securities.. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation authorizes us to issue 1,000,000,000 shares of common stock, of which an estimated 68,465,637 shares were outstanding as of February 23, 2018. This number includes 55,463,903 shares issued in connection with our emergence from bankruptcy. We also have 8,046,021 shares of common stock authorized for issuance as equity awards under the 2017 C&J Energy Services, Inc. Management Incentive Plan, of which 351,306 shares are issuable pursuant to outstanding options, 1,132,697 shares are issuable pursuant to outstanding restricted stock awards and 92,332 shares are issuable pursuant to outstanding performance shares. In addition, as of February 23, 2018, warrants to purchase up to 3,528,074 shares of our common stock were outstanding and immediately exercisable. Shares issued upon exercise of these warrants will generally be freely transferable without restriction or registration under the Securities Act pursuant to Section 1145 of the Bankruptcy Code.. A large percentage of our shares of common stock are held by a relatively small number of investors. We entered into a registration rights agreement (the \"Registration Rights Agreement\") with certain of those investors in connection with our emergence from the Chapter 11 Proceeding pursuant to which we have filed a registration statement with the SEC to facilitate potential future sales of such shares by them. In addition, we filed a registration statement with the SEC following the closing of the O-Tex Transaction to register for sale the shares of Specified C&J Common Stock issued to the Stockholders pursuant to the Merger Agreement. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or even the perception that these sales might occur, could impair our ability to raise capital through a future sale of, or pay for acquisitions using, our equity securities.. We may issue shares of our common stock or other securities from time to time as consideration for future acquisitions and investments. If any such acquisition or investment is significant, the number of shares of our common stock, or the number or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of other securities that we may issue may in turn be substantial. We may also grant registration rights covering those shares of our common stock or other securities in connection with any such acquisitions and investments.. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common stock will have on the price at which our common stock trades or the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.. We have outstanding warrants that are exercisable for shares of common stock of the Company. The exercise of such equity instruments would have a dilutive effect to stockholders of the Company.. On January 6, 2017, we issued 1,180,083 warrants that are exercisable into shares of common stock of the Company at an initial exercise price of $27.95 per warrant. In addition, on July 26, 2017, we issued an additional 2,360,166 warrants with the same terms pursuant to the Warrant Agreement. The exercise of these warrants into common stock would have a dilutive effect to the holdings of our existing stockholders. The warrants will not expire until January 6, 2024 and may create an overhang on the market for, and have a negative effect on the market price of, our common stock.. There is no guarantee that outstanding warrants will continue to be in the money, and unexercised warrants may expire worthless. Further, the terms of such warrants may be amended.. If our stock price is below $27.95 per share, the warrants will have limited economic value, and they may expire worthless. In addition, the warrant agreement provides that the terms of the warrants may be amended without the consent of any holder to cure any ambiguity or correct any defective provision but requires the approval by the holders of at least a certain percentage of the then-outstanding warrants originally issued to make any change that adversely affects the interests of the holders. Accordingly, we may amend the terms of the warrants in a manner adverse to a holder if holders of at least a certain percentage of the then outstanding warrants approve of such amendment.. Because we currently have no plans to pay regular dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future, you may not receive any return on your investment unless you sell your common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it.. We have no plans to pay regular dividends on our common stock. Any declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common stock is limited by restrictive covenants in our Amended Credit Facility and will be at the sole discretion of our Board and will depend on many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, cash flows, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other. 30. considerations that our Board deems relevant. In addition, any agreements governing our future indebtedness may restrict our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. As a result, you may not receive any return on your investment unless you sell your common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it.. Certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, Stockholders Agreement and our stockholder rights plan may make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our Board and may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that some stockholders may consider beneficial.. Certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and our Bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if our Board determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of the Company and our stockholders. The provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and our Bylaws include, among other things, those that:. • classify the Board;. • limit removal of directors;. • authorize our Board to issue preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms, including preferences and voting rights, of those shares without stockholder approval;. • establish advance notice procedures for nominating directors or presenting matters at stockholder meetings;. • prohibit cumulative voting;. • prohibit action by written consent; and. • provide that only the Board may call special meetings of stockholders.. These provisions may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. These provisions may also frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our Board, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management.. We may issue preferred stock on terms that could adversely affect the voting power or value of our common stock.. Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes our Board to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designations, preferences, limitations and relative rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as the Board may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power or value of our common stock. For example, we might grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we might assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock."
