[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. In addition to factors described elsewhere in this report, the following are important factors that could adversely affect our business. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations and financial results.. Negative or uncertain worldwide or regional economic conditions may adversely impact our business.. Our operations and performance are affected by worldwide and regional economic conditions. Uncertainty or a deterioration in the economic conditions affecting the businesses to which, or geographic areas in which, we sell products could reduce demand for our products. We may also experience pricing pressure on products and services, which could decrease our revenues and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and cash flows. In addition, during periods of economic uncertainty, our customers may temporarily pursue inventory reduction measures that exceed declines in the actual underlying demand. Our businesses are sensitive to industry capacity utilization, particularly Reinforcement Materials and Purification Solutions. As a result, pricing tends to fluctuate when capacity utilization changes occur, which could affect our financial performance.. 10. As a chemical manufacturing company, our operations are subject to operational risks and have the potential to cause environmental or other damage as well as personal injury, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows.. The operation of a chemical manufacturing business as well as the sale and distribution of chemical products are subject to operational as well as safety, health and environmental risks. For example, the production and/or processing of carbon black, specialty compounds, fumed metal oxides, aerogel, activated carbon and other chemicals involve the handling, transportation, manufacture or use of certain substances or components that may be considered toxic or hazardous. Our manufacturing processes and the transportation of our chemical products and/or the raw materials used to manufacture our products are subject to risks inherent in chemical manufacturing, including leaks, fires, explosions, toxic releases, mechanical failures or unscheduled downtime. If operational risks materialize, they could result in injury or loss of life, damage to the environment, or damage to property. In addition, the occurrence of material operating problems at our facilities or a disruption in our supply chain or distribution operations may result in loss of production, which, in turn, may make it difficult for us to meet customer needs. Accordingly, these events and their consequences could negatively impact the Company's results of operations and cash flows, both during and after the period of operational difficulties, and could harm our reputation.. A significant adverse change in a customer relationship or the failure of a customer to perform its obligations under agreements with us could harm our business or cash flows.. Our success in strengthening relationships and growing business with our largest customers and retaining their business over extended time periods is important to our future results. We have a group of key customers across our businesses that together represent a significant portion of our total net sales and operating revenues. The loss of any of our important customers, or a significant reduction in volumes sold to them, could adversely affect our results of operations until such business is replaced or any temporary disruption ends. Further in Reinforcement Materials we enter into supply agreements with a number of key customers, that have a duration of at least one year, which account for approximately half of our total rubber blacks volumes. Our success in negotiating the price and volume terms under these agreements could have a material effect on our results. In addition, any deterioration in the financial condition of any of our customers that impairs our customers' ability to make payments to us also could increase our uncollectible receivables and could affect our future results and financial condition.. Volatility in the price and availability of raw materials and energy could impact our margins and working capital.. Our manufacturing processes consume significant amounts of energy and raw materials, the costs of which are subject to worldwide supply and demand as well as other factors beyond our control. Dramatic increases in such costs could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. For example, movements in the market price for crude oil typically affect carbon black feedstock costs. Significant movements in the market price for crude oil tend to create volatility in our carbon black feedstock costs, which can affect our working capital and results of operations. Certain of our carbon black supply contracts contain provisions that adjust prices to account for changes in a relevant feedstock price index. We also attempt to offset the effects of increases in raw material and energy costs through selling price increases in our non-contract sales, productivity improvements and cost reduction efforts. Success in offsetting increased raw material and energy costs with price increases is largely influenced by competitive and economic conditions and could vary significantly depending on the segment served. Such increases may not be accepted by our customers, may not be sufficient to compensate for increased raw material and energy costs or may decrease demand for our products and our volume of sales. If we are not able to fully offset the effects of increased raw material or energy costs, it could have a significant impact on our financial results. Rapid declines in energy and raw material costs can also negatively impact our financial results, as such changes can negatively affect the returns we receive on our energy centers and yield improvement investments, and may negatively impact our contract pricing adjustments. In addition, we use a variety of feedstock indices in our supply contracts to adjust our prices for changes in raw materials costs. Depending on feedstock markets and our choice of feedstocks, the indices we use in our supply contracts may not precisely track our actual costs. This could result in an incongruity between our contract pricing adjustments and changes in our actual feedstock costs, which can affect our margins.. In addition, we obtain certain of our raw materials from selected key suppliers. Although we maintain raw material inventory, if any of these suppliers is unable to meet its obligations under supply agreements with us on a timely basis or at all, we may be forced to incur higher costs to obtain the necessary raw materials elsewhere or, in certain limited cases, may not be able to obtain the required raw materials.. 11. We may not be successful achieving our growth expectations from new products, new applications and technology developments, and money we spend on these efforts may not result in a proportional increase in our revenues or profits.. We may not be successful achieving our growth expectations from developing new products or product applications. Moreover, we cannot be certain that the costs we incur investing in new product and technology development will result in a proportional increase in our revenues or profits. In addition, the timely commercialization of products that we are developing may be disrupted or delayed by manufacturing or other technical difficulties, market acceptance or insufficient market size to support a new product, competitors' new products, and difficulties in moving from the experimental stage to the production stage. These disruptions or delays could affect our future business results.. We face operational risks inherent in mining operations and our mining operations have the potential to cause safety issues, including those that could result in significant personal injury.. We own two mines, a cesium mine in Manitoba, Canada, a portion of which is located under Bernic Lake, and an above-ground lignite mine, which is located close to our Marshall, Texas facility and operated by a subsidiary of The North American Coal Company. Mining operations by their nature are activities that involve a high level of uncertainty and are often affected by risks and hazards outside of our control. At our lignite mine, the risks are primarily operational risks associated with the maintenance and operation of the heavy equipment required to dig and haul the lignite, and risks relating to lower than expected lignite quality or recovery rates. Our underground mine in Manitoba is subject to a number of risks, including industrial accidents, unexpected geological conditions, fall of ground accidents or structural collapses, which, in the case of our cesium mine, could lead to flooding. Following a fall of ground incident in 2013, we implemented additional safety measures and several types of monitoring devices in the mine that have indicated good structural stability in the mine since that time. However, the structural stability may change at any time and there remains a possibility of deterioration and flooding of this mine. The failure to adequately manage these risks could result in significant personal injury, loss of life, damage to mineral properties, production facilities or mining equipment, damage to the environment, delays in or reduced production, and potential legal liabilities.. Any failure to realize benefits from acquisitions, alliances or joint ventures could adversely affect future financial results.. In achieving our strategic plan objectives, we may pursue acquisitions, alliances or joint ventures intended to complement or expand our existing businesses globally or add product technology, or both. The success of acquisitions of businesses, new technologies and products, or arrangements with third parties is not always predictable and we may not be successful in realizing our objectives as anticipated. We may not be able to integrate any acquired businesses successfully into our existing businesses, make such businesses profitable, or realize anticipated cost savings or synergies, if any, from these acquisitions, which could adversely affect our business results.. Plant capacity expansions and site development projects may impact existing plant operations, be delayed and/or not achieve the expected benefits.. Our ability to complete capacity expansions and other site development projects as planned may be delayed or interrupted by the need to obtain environmental and other regulatory approvals, unexpected cost increases, availability of labor and materials, unforeseen hazards such as weather conditions, and other risks customarily associated with construction projects. These risks include the risk that existing plant operations are disrupted, which could make it difficult for us to meet our customer needs. Moreover, the cost of these activities could have a negative impact on the financial performance of the relevant business until capacity utilization at the particular facility is sufficient to absorb the incremental costs associated with the expansion, in the case of capacity expansion projects. In addition, our ability to expand capacity in emerging regions depends in part on economic and political conditions in these regions and, in some cases, on our ability to establish operations, construct additional manufacturing capacity or form strategic business alliances.. An interruption in our operations as a result of fence-line arrangements could disrupt our manufacturing operations and adversely affect our financial results.. At certain of our facilities we have fence-line arrangements with adjacent third party manufacturing operations (\"fence-line partners\"), who provide raw materials for our manufacturing operations and/or take by-products generated from our operations. Accordingly, any unplanned disruptions or curtailments in a fence-line partner's production facilities that impacts their ability to supply us with raw materials or to take our manufacturing by-products could disrupt our manufacturing operations or cause us to incur increased operating costs to mitigate such disruption.. 12. If our assumptions about future sales and profitability of the Purification Solutions segment are incorrect and we do not achieve our growth expectations for this business, we may be required to impair certain assets.. We performed our annual goodwill impairment test of Purification Solutions as of May 31, 2017 and determined that the fair value of the reporting unit exceeded its carrying amount by 13% at that time. Our strategic plan underlying this analysis relies on certain growth assumptions that are primarily dependent on (i) growth in demand for our existing portfolio of activated carbon products and new products developed for environmental and specialty applications, and (ii) stable demand in the mercury removal related portion of the business, which is largely dependent on the amount of coal-based power generation used in the U.S. and the continued regulation of utilities under the Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (\"MATS\"). In April 2017, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (\"EPA\") indicated that it intends to review the cost benefit analysis prepared by the EPA in support of MATS to determine if the EPA should reconsider MATS or some part of it. This continues to be under review by the EPA. Any action that the EPA takes related to MATS that decreases demand for our products for mercury removal, and/or our failure to achieve our growth expectations for our other products could have a negative effect on the financial results and the fair value of the Purification Solutions business, and lead to an impairment of certain assets.. We are exposed to political or country risk inherent in doing business in some countries.. Sales outside of the U.S. constituted a majority of our revenues in fiscal 2017. We conduct business in several countries that have less stable legal systems and financial markets, and potentially more corrupt business environments than the U.S. Our operations in some countries are subject to the following risks: changes in the rate of economic growth; unsettled political or economic conditions; non-renewal of operating permits or licenses; possible expropriation or other governmental actions; corruption by government officials and other third parties; social unrest, war, terrorist activities or other armed conflict; confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; deprivation of contract rights; trade regulations affecting production, pricing and marketing of products; reduced protection of intellectual property rights; restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital; exchange controls; inflation; currency fluctuations and devaluation; the effect of global health, safety and environmental matters on economic conditions and market opportunities; and changes in financial policy and availability of credit. In addition, there may be costs associated with repatriating income or capital.. The Chinese government has, from time to time, curtailed manufacturing operations, without notice, in industrial regions out of growing concern over air quality. The timing and length of these curtailments are difficult to predict and, at times, are applied to manufacturing operations without regard to whether the operations being curtailed comply with environmental regulations in the area. Accordingly, although we believe our operations are in compliance with applicable regulations, our manufacturing operations in China may be subject to these curtailments. These events could negatively impact the Company's results of operations and cash flows both during and after the period of any curtailment affecting the Company's operations.. We face competition from other specialty chemical companies.. We operate in a highly competitive marketplace. Our ability to compete successfully depends in part upon our ability to maintain a superior technological capability and to continue to identify, develop and commercialize new and innovative, high value-added products for existing and future customers. Increased competition from existing or newly developed products offered by our competitors or companies whose products offer a similar functionality as our products and could be substituted for our products, may negatively affect demand for our products. In addition, actions by our competitors could affect our ability to maintain or raise prices, successfully enter new markets or maintain or grow our market position.. Litigation or legal proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities and thus negatively affect our financial results.. As more fully described in \"Legal Proceedings\" in Item 3 below, we are a party to or the subject of lawsuits, claims, and proceedings, including, but not limited to, those involving environmental, and health and safety matters as well as product liability and personal injury claims relating to asbestosis, silicosis, and coal worker's pneumoconiosis. We are also a potentially responsible party in various environmental proceedings and remediation matters wherein substantial amounts are at issue. Adverse rulings, judgments or settlements in pending or future litigation (including liabilities associated with respirator claims) or in connection with environmental remediation activities could adversely affect our financial results or cause our results to differ materially from those expressed or forecasted in any forward-looking statements.. 13. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and interest rates affect our financial results.. We earn revenues, pay expenses, own assets and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In fiscal 2017, we derived a majority of our revenues from sales outside the U.S. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies in countries where we operate will affect our results of operations and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. Due to the geographic diversity of our operations, weaknesses in some currencies might be offset by strengths in others over time. In addition, we are exposed to adverse changes in interest rates. We manage both these risks through normal operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative instruments as well as foreign currency debt. We cannot be certain, however, that we will be successful in reducing the risks inherent in exposures to foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations.. Further, we have exposure to foreign currency movements because certain foreign currency transactions need to be converted to a different currency for settlement. These conversions can have a direct impact on our cash flows.. Our tax rate is dependent upon a number of factors, a change in any of which could impact our future tax rates and net income.. Our future tax rates may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: future changes in the jurisdictions in which our profits are determined to be earned and taxed; changes in the estimated realization of our net deferred tax assets; the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. income and non-U.S. withholding taxes; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses that are not deductible for tax purposes, including charges from impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; and changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws. Losses for which no tax benefits can be recorded could materially impact our tax rate and its volatility from one quarter to another.. Information technology systems failures, data security breaches or network disruptions could compromise our information, disrupt our operations and expose us to liability, which may adversely impact our operations.. In the ordinary course of our business, we store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and certain information of our customers, suppliers, business partners, and employees in our information technology systems. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this data is critical to our operations. Information technology systems failures, including risks associated with upgrading our systems or in successfully integrating information technology and other systems in connection with the integration of businesses we acquire, network disruptions or unauthorized access could disrupt our operations by impeding our processing of transactions and our financial reporting, and our ability to protect our customer or company information, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. In addition, as with all enterprise information systems, our information technology systems could be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting information, corrupting information, or disrupting business processes. Breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure, or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential information about the Company, our employees, our vendors, or our customers, could result in legal claims or proceedings and potential liability for us, damage to our reputation, and could otherwise harm our business and our results of operations.. Our operations are subject to extensive safety, health and environmental requirements, which could increase our costs and/or reduce our profit.. Our ongoing operations are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations, rules and ordinances relating to safety, health and environmental matters, many of which provide for substantial monetary fines and criminal sanctions for violations. These include requirements to obtain and comply with various environmental-related permits for constructing any new facilities and operating all of our existing facilities. In addition, in certain geographic areas, our carbon black and activated carbon facilities are subject to greenhouse gas emission trading schemes under which we may be required to purchase emission credits if our emission levels exceed our allocations. The enactment of new environmental laws and regulations and/or the more aggressive interpretation of existing requirements could require us to incur significant costs for compliance or capital improvements or limit our current or planned operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings or cash flow. We attempt to offset the effects of these compliance costs through price increases, productivity improvements and cost reduction efforts. Success in offsetting any such increased regulatory costs is largely influenced by competitive and economic conditions and could vary significantly depending on the segment served. Such increases may not be accepted by our customers, may not be sufficient to compensate for increased regulatory costs or may decrease demand for our products and our volume of sales. (See \"Legal Proceedings\" in Item 3 below).. 14. Certain national and international health organizations have classified carbon black as a possible or suspected human carcinogen. To the extent that, in the future, (i) these organizations re-classify carbon black as a known or confirmed carcinogen, (ii) other organizations or government authorities in other jurisdictions classify carbon black or any of our other finished products, raw materials or intermediates as suspected or known carcinogens or otherwise hazardous, or (iii) there is discovery of adverse health effects attributable to production or use of carbon black or any of our other finished products, raw materials or intermediates, we could be required to incur significantly higher costs to comply with environmental, health and safety laws, or to comply with restrictions on sales of our products, be subject to legal claims, and our reputation and business could be adversely affected. In addition, chemicals that are currently classified as non-hazardous may be classified as hazardous in the future, and our products may have characteristics that are not recognized today but may be found in the future to impair human health or to be carcinogenic.. The elimination of tariffs placed on U.S. imports of Chinese activated carbon, or their failure to adequately address the impact of low-priced imports from China, could have a material adverse effect on our Purification Solutions segment.. Purification Solutions faces competition in the U.S. from low-priced imports of activated carbon products. If the amounts of these low-priced imports increase, especially if they are sold at less than fair value, our sales of competing products could decline, which could have an adverse effect on the earnings of Purification Solutions. In addition, sales of these low-priced imports may negatively impact our pricing. To limit these activities, regulators in the U.S. have enacted an antidumping duty order on steam activated carbon products from China. A proceeding that will evaluate whether to extend the order for an additional five years will be initiated in February 2018. The amount of antidumping duties collected on imports of steam activated carbon from China is reviewed annually by the U.S. Department of Commerce. To the extent the antidumping margins do not adequately address the degree to which imports are unfairly traded, the antidumping order may be less effective in reducing the volume of these low-priced activated carbon imports in the U.S., which could negatively affect demand and/or pricing for our products. In addition, if the antidumping order is not extended beyond its current term, the amount of low-priced imports from China may increase, which could have an adverse effect on our Purification Solutions business.. We have entered into a number of derivative contracts with financial counterparties. The effectiveness of these contracts is dependent on the ability of these financial counterparties to perform their obligations and their nonperformance could harm our financial condition.. We have entered into forward foreign currency contracts and cross-currency swaps as part of our financial risk management strategy. The effectiveness of our risk management program using these instruments is dependent, in part, upon the counterparties to these contracts honoring their financial obligations. If any of our counterparties are unable to perform their obligations in the future, we could be exposed to increased earnings and cash flow volatility due to an instrument's failure to hedge or adequately address a financial risk.. The continued protection of our patents, trade secrets and other proprietary intellectual property rights are important to our success.. Our patents, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and competitive position. We own various patents and other intellectual property rights in the U.S. and other countries covering many of our products, as well as processes and product uses. Where we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable, we rely on trade secret laws and practices to protect our proprietary technology and processes, such as physical security, limited dissemination and access and confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers, consultants, business partners, potential licensees and others to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information. However, trade secrets can be difficult to protect and the protective measures we have put in place may not prevent disclosure or unauthorized use of our proprietary information or provide an adequate remedy in the event of misappropriation or other violations of our proprietary rights. In addition, we are a licensee of various patents and intellectual property rights belonging to others in the U.S. and other countries. Because the laws and enforcement mechanisms of some countries may not allow us to protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as we are able to do in the U.S., the strength of our intellectual property rights will vary from country to country.. Irrespective of our proprietary intellectual property rights, we may be subject to claims that our products, processes or product uses infringe the intellectual property rights of others. These claims, even if they are without merit, could be expensive and time consuming to defend and if we were to lose such claims, we could be enjoined from selling our products or using our processes and/or be subject to damages, or be required to enter into licensing agreements requiring royalty payments and/or use restrictions. Licensing agreements may not be available to us, or if available, may not be available on acceptable terms.. Natural disasters could affect our operations and financial results.. We operate facilities in areas of the world that are exposed to natural hazards, such as floods, windstorms, hurricanes, and earthquakes. Such events could disrupt our supply of raw materials or otherwise affect production, transportation and delivery of our products or affect demand for our products.. 15"
