[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with the information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other documents we file with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material, but are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies, such as overall U.S. and non-U.S. economic and industry conditions including a global economic slowdown, geopolitical events, changes in laws or accounting rules, fluctuations in interest and exchange rates, terrorism, international conflicts, major health concerns, natural disasters or other disruptions of expected economic and business conditions. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business operations and liquidity.. We depend on contracts with the federal government for substantially all of our revenue.  If the government significantly decreased or ceased doing business with us, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results would be materially and adversely affected.. The federal government is our primary customer, with revenue from federal government contracts, either as a prime contractor or a subcontractor, accounting for 93.5 percent of our total revenue in FY2018 and 93.9 percent of our total revenue in FY2017. Specifically, we generated 66.6 percent of our total revenue in FY2018 and 65.0 percent of our total revenue in FY2017 from contracts with agencies of the DoD. We expect that federal government contracts will continue to be the primary source of our revenue for the foreseeable future. If we were suspended or debarred from contracting with the federal government or any significant agency in the intelligence community or the DoD, if our reputation or relationship with government agencies were to be impaired, or if the government otherwise ceased doing business with us or significantly decreased the amount of business it does with us, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results would be materially and adversely affected.. Our business could be adversely affected by delays caused by our competitors protesting major contract awards received by us, resulting in the delay of the initiation of work.. The number of bid protests of contract awards by unsuccessful bidders is increasing and the U.S. government is taking longer to resolve such protests. Bid protests may result in an increase in expenses related to obtaining contract awards or an unfavorable modification or loss of an award. In the event a bid protest is unsuccessful, the resulting delay in the startup and funding of the work under these contracts may cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. Our business could be adversely affected by changes in budgetary priorities of the federal government.. Because we derive substantially all of our revenue from contracts with the federal government, we believe that the success and development of our business will continue to depend on our successful participation in federal government contract programs. Changes in federal government budgetary priorities could directly affect our financial performance. A significant decline in government expenditures, a shift of expenditures away from programs that we support or a change in federal government contracting policies could cause federal government agencies to reduce their purchases under contracts, to exercise their right to terminate contracts at any time without penalty or not to exercise options to renew contracts.. 12. Subsequent to the enactment of the BCA in 2011, the Congress and the Administration were unable to reach agreement on budget reduction measures required by the legislation.  The BCA required total projected defense spending to decline by $487 billion from the government's FY2012 through FY2021.  It also included a sequester mechanism that imposed additional defense cuts of $500 billion over nine years starting in the government's FY2013 if the Congress did not identify a means to reduce the U.S. deficit by $1.2 trillion.  The effects of sequestration on spending discretionary and non-exempt mandatory have been mitigated by three pieces of legislation:  BBA 2013, signed into law in late December of 2013, revising the amount of discretionary spending to be reduced for the government's FY2014 and FY2015, as originally allowed under the BCA; as part of an act to exempt from the BCA the retirement pay of members and former members of the Armed Forces under the age of 62 before the start of 2014; and by the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 (BBA 2015), signed into law at the end of October 2015, increasing the defense and non-defense FY2016 and FY2017 discretionary spending caps.  These laws extended the automatic direct spending reductions to the government's FY2025.  In February 2018, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 (BBA 2018) was signed into law.  This law established a framework and increased the caps on defense and non-defense discretionary spending for the government's FY2018 and FY2019.  If there are no changes to at least the discretionary spending levels set by the BCA for the government's FY2020, full sequestration of defense and non-defense spending will return on October 1, 2019.. In light of the BCA and deficit reduction pressures offset by the BBA 2018, discretionary spending by the federal government is expected to be higher in the government's FY2018 and FY2019, and constrained thereafter at least through the government's FY2021.  The sequester mechanism, if left unmodified beyond the government's FY2019, along with other pressures on government spending, could negatively impact our business and could have further negative impacts on us in the future.  We may experience disruption of existing programs, delays in contract awards, and other actions, including partial or complete contract terminations.. In years when Congress does not complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year (September 30), government operations are funded through a continuing resolution (CR) that temporarily funds federal agencies.  Recent CRs have generally provided funding at the levels provided in the previous fiscal year and have not authorized new spending initiatives. When the federal government operates under a CR, delays can occur in the procurement of products and services. Historically, such delays have not had a material effect on our business; however, should funding of the federal government continue to be provided through CRs during its fiscal year beginning on October 1, 2018 and extended through the entire government 2019 fiscal year, it could have significant consequences to our business and our industry.  If Congress cannot complete its budget process or does not pass a CR by the end of September, a shutdown of the federal government will result on October 1, 2018, as happened in October 2013 and again, briefly, in January 2018.  Were a shutdown to occur, it could result in our incurring substantial labor or other costs without being reimbursed under our contracts or the delaying or cancelling of certain programs.  This could also have an adverse effect on our business and our industry.. At times, we may continue to work without funding, and use our funds in order to meet our customer's desired delivery dates for products or services. It is uncertain at this time which of our programs' funding could be reduced in future years or whether new legislation will be passed by Congress in the next fiscal year that could result in additional or alternative funding cuts.. Additionally, our business could be affected if we experience an increase in set-asides for small businesses which could result in our inability to compete directly for prime contracts.. Our federal government contracts may be terminated by the government at any time and may contain other provisions permitting the government not to continue with contract performance, and if lost contracts are not replaced, our operating results may differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. We derive substantially all of our revenue from federal government contracts that typically span one or more base years and one or more option years. The option periods typically cover more than half of the contract's potential duration. Federal government agencies generally have the right not to exercise these option periods. In addition, our contracts typically also contain provisions permitting a government customer to terminate the contract for its convenience. A decision not to exercise option periods or to terminate contracts for convenience could result in significant revenue shortfalls from those anticipated.. Federal government contracts contain numerous provisions that are unfavorable to us.. Federal government contracts contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that give the government rights and remedies, some of which are not typically found in commercial contracts, including allowing the government to:. <U+25CF>  cancel multi-year contracts and related orders if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become unavailable;. <U+25CF>  claim rights in systems and software developed by us;. 13. <U+25CF>  suspend or debar us from doing business with the federal government or with a governmental agency;. <U+25CF>  impose fines and penalties and subject us to criminal prosecution; and. <U+25CF>  control or prohibit the export of our data and technology.. If the government terminates a contract for convenience, we may recover only our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to the termination. If the government terminates a contract for default, we may be unable to recover even those amounts and instead may be liable for excess costs incurred by the government in procuring undelivered items and services from another source. Depending on the value of a contract, such termination could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. Certain contracts also contain organizational conflict of interest (OCI) clauses that limit our ability to compete for or perform certain other contracts. OCIs arise any time we engage in activities that (i) make us unable or potentially unable to render impartial assistance or advice to the government; (ii) impair or might impair our objectivity in performing contract work; or (iii) provide us with an unfair competitive advantage. For example, when we work on the design of a particular system, we may be precluded from competing for the contract to develop and install that system. Depending upon the value of the matters affected, an OCI issue that precludes our participation in or performance of a program or contract could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. As is common with government contractors, we have experienced and continue to experience occasional performance issues under certain of our contracts. Depending upon the value of the matters affected, a performance problem that impacts our performance of a program or contract could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. If we fail to establish and maintain important relationships with government entities and agencies, our ability to successfully bid for new business may be adversely affected.. To facilitate our ability to prepare bids for new business, we rely in part on establishing and maintaining relationships with officials of various government entities and agencies. These relationships enable us to provide informal input and advice to government entities and agencies prior to the development of a formal bid. We may be unable to successfully maintain our relationships with government entities and agencies, and any failure to do so may adversely affect our ability to bid successfully for new business and could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. We derive significant revenue from contracts and task orders awarded through a competitive bidding process. If we are unable to consistently win new awards over any extended period, our business and prospects will be adversely affected.. Our contracts and task orders with the federal government are typically awarded through a competitive bidding process. We expect that much of the business that we will seek in the foreseeable future will continue to be awarded through competitive bidding. Budgetary pressures and changes in the procurement process have caused many government customers to increasingly purchase goods and services through IDIQ contracts, GSA schedule contracts and other government-wide acquisition contracts. These contracts, some of which are awarded to multiple contractors, have increased competition and pricing pressure, requiring that we make sustained post-award efforts to realize revenue under each such contract. In addition, in consideration of the practice of agencies awarding work under such contracts that is arguably outside the intended scope of the contracts, both the GSA and the DoD have initiated programs aimed to ensure that all work fits properly within the scope of the contract under which it is awarded. The net effect of such programs may reduce the number of bidding opportunities available to us. Moreover, even if we are highly qualified to work on a particular new contract, we might not be awarded business because of the federal government's policy and practice of maintaining a diverse contracting base.. This competitive bidding process presents a number of risks, including the following:. <U+25CF>  we bid on programs before the completion of their design, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns;. <U+25CF>  we expend substantial cost and managerial time and effort to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that we may not win;. <U+25CF>  we may be unable to estimate accurately the resources and cost structure that will be required to service any contract we win; and. <U+25CF>  we may encounter expense and delay if our competitors protest or challenge awards of contracts to us in competitive bidding, and any such protest or challenge could result in the resubmission of bids on modified specifications, or in the termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract.. 14. If we are unable to win particular contracts, we may be prevented from providing to customers services that are purchased under those contracts for a number of years. If we are unable to consistently win new contract awards over any extended period, our business and prospects will be adversely affected and that could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. In addition, upon the expiration of a contract, if the customer requires further services of the type provided by the contract, there is frequently a competitive rebidding process. There can be no assurance that we will win any particular bid, or that we will be able to replace business lost upon expiration or completion of a contract, and the termination or non-renewal of any of our significant contracts could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. Our business may suffer if we or our employees are unable to obtain the security clearances or other qualifications we and they need to perform services for our customers.. Many of our federal government contracts require us to have security clearances and employ personnel with specified levels of education, work experience and security clearances. Depending on the level of clearance, security clearances can be difficult and time-consuming to obtain. If we or our employees lose or are unable to obtain necessary security clearances, we may not be able to win new business and our existing customers could terminate their contracts with us or decide not to renew them. To the extent we cannot obtain or maintain the required security clearances for our employees working on a particular contract, we may not derive the revenue anticipated from the contract which could cause our results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. We must comply with a variety of laws and regulations, and our failure to comply could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.. We must observe laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of federal government contracts which affect how we do business with our customers and may impose added costs on our business. For example, the Federal Acquisition Regulation and the industrial security regulations of the DoD and related laws include provisions that:. <U+25CF>  allow our federal government customers to terminate or not renew our contracts if we come under foreign ownership, control or influence;. <U+25CF>  require us to divest work if an OCI related to such work cannot be mitigated to the government's satisfaction;. <U+25CF>  require us to disclose and certify cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations; and. <U+25CF>  require us to prevent unauthorized access to classified information, covered defense information, and controlled unclassified information.. Our failure to comply with these or other laws and regulations could result in contract termination, loss of security clearances, suspension or debarment from contracting with the federal government, civil fines and damages and criminal prosecution and penalties, any of which could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. The federal government may change its procurement or other practices in a manner adverse to us.. The federal government may change its procurement practices, or adopt new contracting rules and regulations, such as those related to cost accounting standards. It could also adopt new contracting methods relating to GSA contracts or other government-wide contracts, adopt new socio-economic requirements, or change the basis upon which it reimburses our compensation and other expenses or otherwise limit such reimbursements. In all such cases, there is uncertainty surrounding the changes and what actual impacts they may have on contractors.  These changes could impair our ability to obtain new contracts or win re-competed contracts or adversely affect our future profit margin. Any new contracting methods could be costly or administratively difficult for us to satisfy and, as a result, could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. Restrictions on or other changes to the federal government's use of service contracts may harm our operating results.. We derive a significant amount of revenue from service contracts with the federal government. The government may face restrictions from new legislation, regulations or government union pressures, on the nature and amount of services the government may obtain from private contractors (i.e., insourcing versus outsourcing). Any reduction in the government's use of private contractors to provide federal services could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. 15. Our contracts and administrative processes and systems are subject to audits and cost adjustments by the federal government, which could reduce our revenue, disrupt our business, or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations.. Federal government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA) and the Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA), routinely audit and investigate government contracts and government contractors' administrative processes and systems. These agencies review our performance on contracts, pricing practices, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. They also evaluate the adequacy of internal controls over our business systems, including our purchasing, accounting, estimating, earned value management, and government property systems. Any costs found to be improperly allocated or assigned to contracts will not be reimbursed, and any such costs already reimbursed must be refunded and certain penalties may be imposed. Moreover, if any of the administrative processes and systems are found not to comply with requirements, we may be subjected to increased government scrutiny and approval that could delay or otherwise adversely affect our ability to compete for or perform contracts or collect our revenue in a timely manner. Therefore, an unfavorable outcome of an audit by the DCAA or another government agency could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. If a government investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeitures of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with the federal government. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. Each of these results could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. Failure to maintain strong relationships with other contractors could result in a decline in our revenue.. We derive substantial revenue from contracts in which we act as a subcontractor or from teaming arrangements in which we and other contractors bid on particular contracts or programs. As a subcontractor or teammate, we often lack control over fulfillment of a contract, and poor performance on the contract could impact our customer relationship, even when we perform as required. We expect to continue to depend on relationships with other contractors for a portion of our revenue in the foreseeable future. Moreover, our revenue and operating results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated if any prime contractor or teammate chose to offer directly to the customer services of the type that we provide or if they team with other companies to provide those services.. We may not receive the full amounts authorized under the contracts included in our backlog, which could reduce our revenue in future periods below the levels anticipated.. Our backlog consists of funded backlog, which is based on amounts actually committed by a customer for payment for goods and services, and unfunded backlog, which is based upon contract revenue we have the potential to earn over the remaining life of the contracts. Our backlog may not result in actual revenue in any particular period, or at all, which could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. The maximum contract value specified under a government contract or task order awarded to us is not necessarily indicative of the revenue that we will realize under that contract. For example, we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from government contracts in which we are not the sole provider, meaning that the government could turn to other companies to fulfill the contract. We also derive revenue from IDIQ contracts, which do not require the government to purchase a pre-determined amount of goods or services under the contract. Action by the government to obtain support from other contractors or failure of the government to order the quantity of work anticipated could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. Without additional Congressional appropriations, some of the contracts included in our backlog will remain unfunded, which could materially and adversely affect our future operating results.. Although many of our federal government contracts include multi-year performance periods, Congress often appropriates funds for these contracts on an annual basis. As a result, a majority of our contracts are only partially funded at any point during their term and unfunded contract work is subject to future appropriations by Congress. As a result of a lack of appropriated funds or efforts to reduce federal government spending, the receipt of revenues included in our backlog may never occur or may be delayed. We calculate our unfunded backlog based on the aggregate contract revenue we have the potential to realize.  On unfunded contract work, including amounts based on the assumed exercise of options under such contracts. If our backlog is inaccurate and we fail to realize those amounts as revenue, our future operating results could be materially and adversely affected.. 16. Employee misconduct, including security breaches, could result in the loss of customers and our suspension or debarment from contracting with the federal government.. We may be unable to prevent our employees from engaging in misconduct, fraud or other improper activities that could adversely affect our business and reputation. Misconduct could include the failure to comply with federal government procurement regulations, regulations regarding the protection of classified information and legislation regarding the pricing of labor and other costs in government contracts. Many of the systems we develop involve managing and protecting information involved in national security and other sensitive government functions. A security breach in one of these systems could prevent us from having access to such critically sensitive systems. Other examples of employee misconduct could include time card fraud and violations of the Anti-Kickback Act. The precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective, and we could face unknown risks or losses. As a result of employee misconduct, we could face fines and penalties, loss of security clearance and suspension or debarment from contracting with the federal government, which could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. Our failure to attract and retain qualified employees, including our senior management team, could adversely affect our business.. Our continued success depends to a substantial degree on our ability to recruit and retain the technically skilled personnel we need to serve our customers effectively. Our business involves the development of tailored solutions for our customers, a process that relies heavily upon the expertise and services of our employees. Accordingly, our employees are our most valuable resource. Competition for skilled personnel in the information technology services industry is intense, and technology service companies often experience high attrition among their skilled employees. There is a shortage of people capable of filling these positions and they are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future. Recruiting and training these personnel require substantial resources. Our failure to attract and retain technical personnel could increase our costs of performing our contractual obligations, reduce our ability to efficiently satisfy our customers' needs, limit our ability to win new business and cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. In addition to attracting and retaining qualified technical personnel, we believe that our success will depend on the continued employment of our senior management team and its ability to generate new business and execute projects successfully. Our senior management team is very important to our business because personal reputations and individual business relationships are a critical element of obtaining and maintaining customer engagements in our industry, particularly with agencies performing classified operations. The loss of any of our senior executives could cause us to lose customer relationships or new business opportunities, which could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. Our markets are highly competitive, and many of the companies we compete against have substantially greater resources.. The markets in which we operate include a large number of participants and are highly competitive. Many of our competitors may compete more effectively than we can because they are larger, better financed and better known companies than we are. In order to stay competitive in our industry, we must also keep pace with changing technologies and customer preferences. If we are unable to differentiate our services from those of our competitors, our revenue may decline. In addition, our competitors have established relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their ability to address customer needs. As a result, new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and compete more effectively than we can. There is also a significant industry trend towards consolidation, which may result in the emergence of companies which are better able to compete against us. The results of these competitive pressures could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. Our quarterly revenue and operating results could be volatile due to the unpredictability of the federal government's budgeting process and policy priorities.. Our quarterly revenue and operating results may fluctuate significantly and unpredictably in the future. In particular, if the federal government does not adopt, or delays adoption of, a budget for each fiscal year beginning on October 1, or fails to pass a continuing resolution, federal agencies may be forced to suspend our contracts and delay the award of new and follow-on contracts and orders due to a lack of funding. Further, the rate at which the federal government procures technology may be negatively affected following changes in presidential administrations and senior government officials. Therefore, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be a good indication of our future performance.. Our quarterly operating results may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which in turn may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. 17. We may lose money or generate less than anticipated profits if we do not accurately estimate the cost of an engagement which is conducted on a fixed-price basis.. We perform a portion of our engagements on a variety of fixed-price contract vehicles. We derived 32.6 percent of our total revenue in FY2018 and 32.3 percent of our total revenue in FY2017 from fixed-price contracts. Fixed-price contracts require us to price our contracts by predicting our expenditures in advance. In addition, some of our engagements obligate us to provide ongoing maintenance and other supporting or ancillary services on a fixed-price basis or with limitations on our ability to increase prices. Many of our engagements are also on a time-and-materials basis. While these types of contracts are generally subject to less uncertainty than fixed-price contracts, to the extent that our actual labor costs are higher than the contract rates, our actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. When making proposals for engagements on a fixed-price basis, we rely on our estimates of costs and timing for completing the projects. These estimates reflect our best judgment regarding our capability to complete the task efficiently. Any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of fixed-price contracts, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could make these contracts less profitable or unprofitable. From time to time, unexpected costs and unanticipated delays have caused us to incur losses on fixed-price contracts, primarily in connection with state government customers. On rare occasions, these losses have been significant. In the event that we encounter such problems in the future, our actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. Our earnings and margins may vary based on the mix of our contracts and programs.. At June 30, 2018, our backlog included cost reimbursable, time-and-materials and fixed-price contracts. Cost reimbursable and time-and-materials contracts generally have lower profit margins than fixed-price contracts. Our earnings and margins may vary materially and adversely depending on the types of long-term government contracts undertaken, the costs incurred in their performance, the achievement of other performance objectives and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees, particularly under incentive and award fee contracts, is finally determined.. Systems failures may disrupt our business and have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Any systems failures, including network, software or hardware failures, whether caused by us, a third party service provider, unauthorized intruders and hackers, computer viruses, natural disasters, power shortages or terrorist attacks, could cause loss of data or interruptions or delays in our business or that of our customers. Like other global companies, we have experienced cyber security threats to our data and systems, our company sensitive information, and our information technology infrastructure, including malware and computer virus attacks, unauthorized access, systems failures and temporary disruptions.  Prior cyber attacks directed at us have not had a material adverse impact on our business or our financial results, and we believe that our continuing commitment toward threat detection and mitigation processes and procedures will reduce such impact in the future.  Due to the evolving nature of these security threats, however, the impact of any future incident cannot be predicted. In addition, the failure or disruption of our mail, communications or utilities could cause us to interrupt or suspend our operations or otherwise harm our business. Our property and business interruption insurance may be inadequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur as a result of any system or operational failure or disruption and, as a result, our actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. The systems and networks that we maintain for our customers, although highly redundant in their design, could also fail. If a system or network we maintain were to fail or experience service interruptions, we might experience loss of revenue or face claims for damages or contract termination. Our errors and omissions liability insurance may be inadequate to compensate us for all the damages that we might incur and, as a result, our actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. Customer systems failures could damage our reputation and adversely affect our results of operations.. Many of the systems that we develop, integrate, maintain, otherwise support or use involve managing and protecting intelligence, national security, and other sensitive government information. While we have programs designed to protect such information and comply with all relevant privacy and security requirements, the threats that our clients face have grown more frequent and sophisticated. A security breach or system failure in a system that we develop, integrate, maintain or otherwise support could result in a loss of revenue, remediation costs, claims for damages or contract termination and our errors and omissions liability insurance may be inadequate to compensate us for all the damages that we might incur. Any such event could also cause serious damage to our reputation and prevent us from having access to or being eligible for further work on such sensitive systems for U.S. government customers.. 18. In addition, in order to provide services to our customers, we often depend upon or use customer systems that are supported by the customer or third parties.  Any security breach or system failure in such systems could result in an interruption of our customer's operations, significant delays under a contract, and a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We may have difficulty identifying and executing acquisitions on favorable terms and therefore may grow at slower than anticipated rates.. One of our key growth strategies has been to selectively pursue acquisitions. Through acquisitions, we have expanded our base of federal government customers, increased the range of solutions we offer to our customers and deepened our penetration of existing markets and customers. We may encounter difficulty identifying and executing suitable acquisitions. To the extent that management is involved in identifying acquisition opportunities or integrating new acquisitions into our business, our management may be diverted from operating our core business. Without acquisitions, we may not grow as rapidly as the market expects, which could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. We may encounter other risks in executing our acquisition strategy, including:. <U+25CF>  increased competition for acquisitions may increase the costs of our acquisitions;. <U+25CF>  our failure to discover material liabilities during the due diligence process, including the failure of prior owners of any acquired businesses or their employees to comply with applicable laws or regulations, such as the Federal Acquisition Regulation and health, safety and environmental laws, or their failure to fulfill their contractual obligations to the federal government or other customers; and. <U+25CF>  acquisition financing may not be available on reasonable terms or at all.. Each of these types of risks could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. We may have difficulty integrating the operations of any companies we acquire, which could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. The success of our acquisition strategy will depend upon our ability to continue to successfully integrate any businesses we may acquire in the future. The integration of these businesses into our operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties, absorb significant management attention and require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development of our business. These integration difficulties include the integration of personnel with disparate business backgrounds, the transition to new information systems, coordination of geographically dispersed organizations, loss of key employees of acquired companies, and reconciliation of different corporate cultures. For these or other reasons, we may be unable to retain key customers of acquired companies. Moreover, any acquired business may fail to generate the revenue or net income we expected or produce the efficiencies or cost-savings we anticipated. Any of these outcomes could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. If our subcontractors fail to perform their contractual obligations, our performance as a prime contractor and our ability to obtain future business could be materially and adversely impacted and our actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. Our performance of government contracts may involve the issuance of subcontracts to other companies upon which we rely to perform all or a portion of the work we are obligated to deliver to our customers. A failure by one or more of our subcontractors to satisfactorily deliver on a timely basis the agreed-upon supplies, perform the agreed-upon services, or appropriately manage their vendors may materially and adversely impact our ability to perform our obligations as a prime contractor.. A subcontractor's performance deficiency could result in the government terminating our contract for default. A default termination could expose us to liability for excess costs of reprocurement by the government and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and task orders. Depending upon the level of problem experienced, such problems with subcontractors could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. 19. The federal government's appropriation process and other factors may delay the collection of our receivables, and our business may be adversely affected if we cannot collect our receivables in a timely manner.. We depend on the collection of our receivables to generate cash flow, provide working capital, pay debt and continue our business operations. If the federal government, any of our other customers or any prime contractor for whom we are a subcontractor fails to pay or delays the payment of their outstanding invoices for any reason, our business and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. The government may fail to pay outstanding invoices for a number of reasons, including lack of appropriated funds or lack of an approved budget. In addition, the DCAA may revoke our direct billing privileges, which would adversely affect our ability to collect our receivables in a timely manner. Contracting officers have the authority to impose contractual withholdings, which can also adversely affect our ability to collect timely. The Defense Federal Acquisition Regulations require DoD contracting officers to impose contractual withholdings at no less than certain minimum levels if a contracting officer determines that one or more of a contractor's business systems have one or more significant deficiencies. Some prime contractors for whom we are a subcontractor have significantly less financial resources than we do, which may increase the risk that we may not be paid in full or payment may be delayed. If we experience difficulties collecting receivables, it could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. We have substantial investments in recorded goodwill as a result of prior acquisitions, and changes in future business conditions could cause these investments to become impaired, requiring substantial write-downs that would reduce our operating income.. Goodwill accounts for $2.6 billion of our recorded total assets. We evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill amounts annually or when evidence of potential impairment exists. The annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. Principally, a decrease in expected reporting unit cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill. If there is an impairment, we would be required to write down the recorded amount of goodwill, which would be reflected as a charge against operating income.. Our operations involve several risks and hazards, including potential dangers to our employees and to third parties that are inherent in aspects of our federal business (e.g., counterterrorism training services). If these risks and hazards are not adequately insured, it could adversely affect our operating results.. Our federal business includes the maintenance of global networks and the provision of special operations services (e.g., counterterrorism training) that require us to dispatch employees to various countries around the world. These countries may be experiencing political upheaval or unrest, and in some cases war or terrorism. It is possible that certain of our employees or executives will suffer injury or bodily harm, or be killed or kidnapped in the course of these deployments. We could also encounter unexpected costs for reasons beyond our control in connection with the repatriation of our employees or executives. Any of these types of accidents or other incidents could involve significant potential claims of employees, executives and/or third parties who are injured or killed or who may have wrongful death or similar claims against us.. We maintain insurance policies that mitigate against risk and potential liabilities related to our operations. This insurance is maintained in amounts that we believe are reasonable. However, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover those claims or liabilities, and we may be forced to bear significant costs from an accident or incident. Substantial claims in excess of our related insurance coverage could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. Our failure to adequately protect our confidential information and proprietary rights may harm our competitive position.. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to protect our proprietary information. Although our employees are subject to confidentiality obligations, this protection may be inadequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information. In addition, we may be unable to detect unauthorized use of our proprietary information in order to take appropriate steps to enforce our rights. If we are unable to prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our proprietary information, our competitive position could be harmed and our actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. We face additional risks which could harm our business because we have international operations.. We conduct the majority of our international operations in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. Our international operations comprised 3.7 percent of our revenue in FY2018 and 3.1 percent of our revenue in FY2017. Our international operations are subject to risks associated with operating in a foreign country. These risks include fluctuations in the value of the British pound and the Euro, longer payment cycles, changes in foreign tax laws and regulations and unexpected legislative, regulatory, economic or political changes.. 20. In May 2018, the Data Protection Act 2018 (DPA) and the General Data Protection Regulation 2016 (GDPR) came into force in the U.K. This new legislation imposes more stringent data protection obligations on companies such as CACI that process personal data. The maximum fine which can be levied by the U.K. data protection regulator has increased to 4.0 percent of revenue. CACI has been preparing for this legislation since mid-2017 and has implemented a number of risk-mitigating strategies, however, it is not possible to eliminate all risk associated with the new legislation. Possible risks include violations of the DPA and/or GDPR arising from human error or external threats to CACI's IT systems or process omissions.. Approximately 74.0 percent of the revenue generated by our international operations are also subject to risks associated with operating a commercial as opposed to a government contracting business, including the effects of general economic conditions in Europe on the telecommunications, computer software and computer services sectors and the impact of more concentrated and intense competition for the reduced volume of work available in those sectors. We are marketing our services to customers in industries that are new to us and our efforts in that regard may be unsuccessful. Other factors that may adversely affect our international operations are difficulties relating to managing our business internationally, integrating recent acquisitions, multiple tax structures and adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. Any of these factors could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. Our senior secured credit facility (the Credit Facility) imposes certain restrictions on our ability to take certain actions which may have an impact on our business, operating results and financial condition.. The Credit Facility imposes certain operating and financial restrictions on us and requires us to meet certain financial tests. These restrictions may significantly limit or prohibit us from engaging in certain transactions, including the following:. <U+25CF>  incurring or guaranteeing certain amounts of additional debt;. <U+25CF>  paying dividends or other distributions to our stockholders or redeeming, repurchasing or retiring our capital stock in excess of specific limits;. <U+25CF>  making certain investments, loans and advances;. <U+25CF>  exceeding specific levels of liens on our assets;. <U+25CF>  issuing or selling equity in our subsidiaries;. <U+25CF>  transforming or selling certain assets currently held by us, including certain sale and lease-back transactions;. <U+25CF>  amending or modifying certain agreements, including those related to indebtedness; and. <U+25CF>  engaging in certain mergers, consolidations or acquisitions.. The failure to comply with any of these covenants would cause a default under the Credit Facility. A default, if not waived, could cause our debt to become immediately due and payable. In such situations, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it, and even if new financing is available, it may not contain terms that are acceptable to us.. Despite our outstanding debt, we may incur additional indebtedness.. The Credit Facility consists of a $1,100.0 million revolving credit facility (the Revolving Facility) and a $938.4 million term loan facility (the Term Loan).  The Revolving Facility has sub-facilities of $100.0 million for same-day swing line loan borrowings and $25.0 million for stand-by letters of credit.  At any time and so long as no default has occurred, the Company has the right to increase the Revolving Facility or the Term Loan in an aggregate principal amount of up to the greater of $400.0 million or an amount subject to 2.75 times senior secured leverage, calculated assuming the revolving Facility is fully drawn, with applicable lender approvals.  At June 30, 2018, $135.0 million was outstanding under the revolving credit facility and $938.4 million was outstanding under the term loan.  In addition, the terms of the Credit Facility allow us to incur additional indebtedness from other sources so long as we satisfy the covenants in the agreement governing the Credit Facility.  If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the risks related to our ability to service that debt could increase.. Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to pay our substantial debt.. The Credit Facility matures on June 30, 2023.  Principal payments under the term loan are due in quarterly installments.  Our business may not generate cash flow from operations sufficient to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive.. 21. A change in control or fundamental change may adversely affect us.. The Credit Facility provides that certain change in control events with respect to us will constitute a default."
