[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. There are risks, many beyond our control, which could cause our results to differ significantly from management's expectations. Some of these risk factors are described below. Any factor described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (\"Annual Report\") could, by itself or together with one or more other factors, adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently consider to not be material also may materially and adversely affect us. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to other information disclosed in our SEC filings, including the financial statements and notes thereto.. Risks Relating to Our Business. As a business operating in the financial services industry, our business and operations may be adversely affected in numerous and complex ways by economic conditions.. Our businesses and operations, which primarily consist of commercial banking activities, including offering financial products and services to middle-market commercial business, high net worth individuals and business owners, are sensitive to business and economic conditions in the United States generally and in Texas and the southeast United States, the principal markets where we conduct business, in particular. The economic conditions in these local markets may be different from the economic conditions in the United States as a whole. If the U.S. economy or the economy in any of our principal markets weaken, our growth and profitability from our lending, deposit and investment operations could be constrained. Uncertainty about the federal fiscal policy-making process, the medium- and long-term fiscal outlook of the federal government, and future tax rates and. 18. tax policies is a concern for businesses, consumers and investors in the United States, including our customers. In addition, economic conditions in foreign countries, could affect the stability of global financial markets, which could hinder U.S. economic growth. Weak economic conditions are characterized by deflation, fluctuations in debt and equity capital markets, a lack of liquidity and/or depressed prices in the secondary market for mortgage loans, increased delinquencies on mortgage, consumer and commercial loans, residential and commercial real estate price declines, and lower home sales and commercial activity. The current economic environment is also characterized by interest rates at historically low levels, which impacts our ability to attract deposits and to generate attractive earnings through our investment portfolio. All of these factors are detrimental to our business, and the interplay between these factors can be complex and unpredictable. Unfavorable market conditions can result in a deterioration in the credit quality of our borrowers and the demand for our products and services, an increase in the number of loan delinquencies, defaults and charge-offs, additional provisions for credit losses, adverse asset values, and an overall material adverse effect on the quality of our loan portfolio.. Our business is also significantly affected by monetary and related policies of the U.S. federal government and its agencies. Changes in any of these policies are influenced by macroeconomic conditions and other factors that are beyond our control. Adverse economic conditions and government policy responses to such conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our success will depend in significant part upon our ability to maintain a sufficiently large interest margin between the rates of interest we receive on loans and other investments and the rates we pay out on deposits and other liabilities. The monetary and economic factors listed above, and the need to pay rates sufficient to attract deposits, may adversely affect our ability to maintain an interest margin sufficient to result in operating profits.. Our business depends on our ability to successfully manage credit risk.. Our business depends on our ability to successfully measure and manage credit risk. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that the principal of, or interest on, a loan will not be repaid timely or at all or that the value of any collateral supporting a loan will be insufficient to cover our outstanding exposure. In addition, we are exposed to risks with respect to the period of time over which the loan may be repaid, risks relating to proper loan underwriting, risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions, and risks inherent in dealing with individual loans and borrowers. The creditworthiness of a borrower is affected by many factors including local market conditions and general economic conditions. If the overall economic climate in the United States, generally, or our market areas, specifically, experiences material disruption, our borrowers may experience difficulties in repaying their loans, the collateral we hold may decrease in value or become illiquid, and the level of nonperforming loans, charge-offs and delinquencies could rise and require significant additional provisions for credit losses. Additional factors related to the credit quality of commercial loans include the quality of the management of the business and the borrower's ability both to properly evaluate changes in the supply and demand characteristics affecting our market for products and services and to effectively respond to those changes. Additional factors related to the credit quality of commercial real estate loans include tenant vacancy rates and the quality of management of the property.. Our risk management practices, such as monitoring the concentration of our loans within specific industries and our credit approval, review and administrative practices, may not adequately reduce credit risk, and our credit administration personnel, policies and procedures may not adequately adapt to changes in economic or any other conditions affecting customers and the quality of the loan portfolio. Many of our loans are made to small and medium-sized businesses that are less able to withstand competitive, economic and financial pressures than larger borrowers. Consequently, we may have significant exposure if any of these borrowers becomes unable to pay their loan obligations as a result of economic or market conditions, or personal circumstances, such as divorce or death. A failure to effectively measure and limit the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio may result in loan defaults, foreclosures and additional charge-offs, and may necessitate that we significantly increase our allowance for credit losses, each of which could adversely affect our net income. As a result, our inability to successfully manage credit risk could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our allowance for credit losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb potential losses in our loan portfolio, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans in accordance with their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We have established our allowance for credit losses, or ACL, and maintain it at a level considered adequate by management to absorb probable credit losses based on our analysis of the quality of our loan portfolio, market environment and other factors we deem to be relevant to this analysis. The allowance for credit losses represents our estimate of probable losses in the portfolio at each balance sheet date and is based upon relevant information available to us. The allowance contains provisions for probable losses that have been identified relating to specific borrowing relationships, as well as probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio and credit undertakings that are not. 19. specifically identified. Additions to the allowance for credit losses, which are charged to earnings through the provision for credit losses, are determined based on a variety of factors, including an analysis of the loan portfolio, historical loss experience and an evaluation of current economic conditions in our market areas. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for credit losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Although our management has established an allowance for credit losses it believes is adequate to absorb probable and reasonably estimable losses in our loan portfolio, the allowance may not be adequate. We could sustain credit losses that are significantly higher than the amount of our allowance for credit losses. Higher credit losses could arise for a variety of reasons, including changes in economic, operating and other conditions within our markets, as well as changes in the financial condition, cash flows, and operations of our borrowers.. As of December 31, 2017, our allowance for credit losses as a percentage of total loans was 1.06% and as a percentage of total nonperforming loans was 183.62%. Additional credit losses will likely occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than we have previously experienced. We may be required to take additional provisions for credit losses in the future to further supplement the allowance for credit losses, either due to management's decision to do so or requirements by our banking regulators. In addition, bank regulatory agencies will periodically review our allowance for credit losses, the policies and procedures we use to determine the level of the allowance and the value attributed to nonperforming loans or to real estate acquired through foreclosure. Such regulatory agencies may require us to recognize future charge-offs. In addition, in June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued a new accounting standard that will replace the current approach under GAAP for establishing allowances for credit losses, which generally considers only past event and current conditions, with a forward-looking methodology that reflects the expected credit losses over the lives of financial assets, starting when such assets are first acquired. Under the revised methodology, credit losses will be measured based on past events, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectability of financial assets. The standard is expected to result in increases to allowance levels generally and will require the application of the revised methodology to existing financial assets through a one-time adjustment to retained earnings upon initial effectiveness. The standard will be effective for us in 2020. See \"Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - Note 1 - Summary of Accounting Policies - Pending Accounting Pronouncements\" for additional information about the standard. Any increases in the allowance for credit losses will result in a decrease in net income and, if the increases reduce retained earnings and capital, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The security interest that we have in our clients' assets may not be sufficient to protect us from a partial or complete loss if we are required to foreclose.. Lending is a substantial part of our business, and each loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms. Our loans are often secured by a lien on specified collateral of our clients. However, the collateral may not protect us from suffering a partial or complete loss if we move to foreclose on the collateral. Factors that could reduce the value of the collateral that we have a security interest in include, among other things:. •  changes in general economic and industry conditions;. •  changes in the real estate markets in which we lend;. •  inherent uncertainties in the future value of the collateral;. •  the financial condition and/or cash flows of the borrower and/or the project being financed; and. •  any representation by the borrower of, or failure to keep adequate records related to, important information concerning the collateral.. Any one or more of the preceding factors could materially impair our ability to collect on specified collateral of our clients in the event loans we have made to such clients are not repaid in accordance with their terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and meet our obligations as they become due and could jeopardize our financial condition.. Liquidity is essential to our business. Liquidity risk is the potential that we will be unable to meet our obligations as they become due because of an inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding. We require sufficient liquidity to meet customer loan requests, customer deposit maturities and withdrawals, payments on our debt obligations as they come due and other cash commitments under both normal operating conditions and other unpredictable circumstances, including events causing industry or general financial market stress. Our access to deposits may be affected by the liquidity needs of our depositors. We depend on deposit account balances and other forms of customer deposits as our primary source of funding for our lending activities. A key part of our liquidity plan and funding strategy is to increase our deposit base as a source of funds. We might have difficulty. 20. replacing such funds in the future, especially if a large number of our depositors seek to withdraw their accounts, regardless of the reason. Liquidity risk can increase due to a number of factors, including an over-reliance on a particular source of funding or market-wide phenomena such as market dislocation and major disasters. Our inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans, and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or on acceptable terms could be impaired by factors that affect our organization specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. We rely on brokered deposits as a source of liquidity and generally target a brokered deposit to total deposit ratio of less than 15% to 20%. Brokered deposits may have a higher deposit cost compared to our core deposits. Factors that could detrimentally impact access to liquidity sources include, but are not limited to, a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated (including a downturn resulting from natural disasters affecting those markets) or adverse regulatory actions against us or changes in the liquidity needs of our depositors. Market conditions or other events could also negatively affect the level or cost of funding, affecting our ongoing ability to accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet contractual obligations (including any unfunded credit commitments), and fund asset growth and new business transactions at a reasonable cost, in a timely manner, and without adverse consequences.. A failure to maintain adequate liquidity or any substantial, unexpected, and/or prolonged change in the level or cost of liquidity could impair our ability to fund operations and meet our obligations as they become due and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The borrowing needs of our clients may increase, especially during a challenging economic environment, which could result in increased borrowing against our contractual obligations to extend credit.. A commitment to extend credit is a formal agreement to lend funds to a client as long as there is no violation of any condition established under the agreement. The actual borrowing needs of our clients under these credit commitments have historically been lower than the contractual amount of the commitments. A significant portion of these commitments expire without being drawn upon. Because of the credit profile of our clients, we typically have a substantial amount of total unfunded credit commitments, which is not reflected on our balance sheet. As of December 31, 2017, we had $3.4 billion in unfunded credit commitments to our clients. Actual borrowing needs of our clients may exceed our expectations, including due to unexpected impacts from a natural disaster, but especially during a challenging economic environment when our clients' companies may be more dependent on our credit commitments due to the lack of available credit elsewhere, the increasing costs of credit, or the limited availability of financings from venture firms. This could adversely affect our liquidity, which could impair our ability to fund operations and meet obligations as they become due and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See \"Risk Factors - Risks Relating to Our Business - Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and meet our obligations as they become due and could jeopardize our financial condition.\". We are subject to interest rate risk, which could adversely affect our financial condition and profitability.. The majority of our banking assets are subject to changes in interest rates. For example, as of December 31, 2017, 77% of our loan portfolio consisted of floating and adjustable interest rate loans. Like most financial institutions, our earnings significantly depend on our net interest income, the principal component of our earnings, which is the difference between interest earned by us from our interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest paid by us on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience \"gaps\" in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities, meaning that either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, this \"gap\" will negatively impact our earnings. The impact on earnings is more adverse when the slope of the yield curve flattens, that is, when short-term interest rates increase more than long-term interest rates or when long-term interest rates decrease more than short-term interest rates. Many factors beyond our control impact interest rates, including economic conditions, governmental monetary policies, inflation, recession, changes in unemployment, the money supply, and disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. Changes in monetary policies of the various government agencies could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, and the average duration of our assets.. In any future declining interest rate environment, there may be an increase in prepayments on loans as borrowers refinance their loans at lower rates. Interest rate increases often result in larger payment requirements for our floating interest rate borrowers, which increases the potential for default. At the same time, the marketability of the property securing a loan may be adversely affected by any reduced demand resulting from higher interest rates. An increase (or decrease) in interest rates may also require us to increase (or decrease) the interest rates that we pay on our deposits.. 21. Changes in interest rates also can affect the value of loans, securities and other assets. An increase in interest rates that adversely affects the ability of borrowers to pay the principal or interest on loans may lead to increases in nonperforming assets, charge-offs and delinquencies, further increases to the allowance for credit losses, and a reduction of income recognized, among others, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Further, when we place a loan on non-accrual status, we reverse any accrued but unpaid interest receivable, which decreases interest income. At the same time, we continue to have a cost to fund the loan, which is reflected as interest expense, without any interest income to offset the associated funding expense. Thus, an increase in the amount of nonperforming assets could have a material adverse impact on our net interest income.. Additionally, an increase in interest rates may not increase our net interest income to the same extent we currently anticipate based on our modeling estimates and the assumptions underlying such modeling. Our failure to benefit from an increased interest rate environment to the extent we currently estimate, to the same extent as our competitors or at all could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If short-term interest rates remain at their historically low levels for a prolonged period, and assuming longer term interest rates fall further, we could experience net interest margin compression as our rates on our interest earning assets would decline while rates on our interest-bearing liabilities could fail to decline in tandem. Similarly, if short-term interest rates increase and long-term interest rates do not increase, or increase but at a slower rate, we could experience net interest margin compression as our rates on interest earning assets decline measured relative to rates on our interest-bearing liabilities. Any such occurrence could have a material adverse effect on our net interest income and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.\". The geographic concentration of our markets in Houston and other parts of Texas and the southeast United States makes our business susceptible to downturns in the local economies and depressed banking markets, including the downturns in the energy industry, effects of natural disasters in the region and decreases in oil prices. These factors as well as other geography-specific risks could materially and adversely affect us.. Unlike larger financial institutions that are more geographically diversified, we are a regional banking franchise concentrated in Houston and other parts of Texas and the southeast United States. As of December 31, 2017, 51% of our total loans (by dollar amount) were in Texas, 12% were in Alabama and 9% were in Florida. A deterioration in local economic conditions in the loan market or in the residential or commercial real estate markets could have a material adverse effect on the quality of our portfolio, the demand for our products and services, the ability of borrowers to timely repay loans, and the value of the collateral securing loans. If the population, employment or income growth in one of our markets is negative or slower than projected, income levels, deposits and real estate development could be adversely impacted.. The effects of adverse weather events may negatively affect our local economies or disrupt our operations, which would have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations.. Like other coastal areas, our geographic markets in Texas and the southeast United States are susceptible to severe weather, including hurricanes, flooding, tornadoes, droughts, wildfires, and hailstorms and damaging winds. In August 2017, Hurricane Harvey made landfall near Corpus Christi, Texas and also struck the Houston area and parts of eastern Texas and Louisiana, causing record flooding, power outages, significant damage to impacted residential and commercial properties and disruptions to normal economic activity in certain of our market areas. Additionally, in September 2017, Hurricane Irma made landfall near Naples, Florida in southwest Florida, with impacts throughout much of south, central and eastern Florida, including flooding, power outages and various degrees of wind damage to certain residential and commercial properties. Although we currently expect that the credit impact of Hurricanes Harvey and Irma will be minimal, we continue to assess the impact on the performance of our loans in the affected market areas. In addition, the occurrence of other adverse weather and natural or man-made disasters in the future could destroy, or cause a decline in the value of, mortgaged properties, crops or other assets that serve as our collateral and increase the risk of delinquencies, defaults, foreclosures and losses on our loans, damage our banking facilities and offices, negatively impact regional economic conditions, result in a decline in local loan demand, loan originations and deposit availability and negatively impact the implementation of our growth strategy. Any one or more of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Sustained low oil prices, volatility in oil prices and downturns in the energy industry, including in Texas, could materially and adversely affect us.. The economy in Texas has dependence on the energy industry. A downturn or lack of growth in the energy industry and energy-related business, including sustained low oil prices or the failure of oil prices to rise in the future, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Oil and gas prices declined significantly during 2014 and 2015, and, despite a. 22. subsequent partial rebound since 2016, the full impact to the broad economy, to banks in general, and to us, of these decreases and overall oil and gas price volatility is yet to be determined. As of December 31, 2017, energy lending comprised approximately 11% of our loan portfolio and contributed 12% of our revenues. Prolonged or further pricing pressure on oil and gas could lead to increased credit stress in our energy portfolio, increased losses associated with our energy portfolio, increased utilization of our contractual obligations to extend credit and weaker demand for energy lending. Such a decline or general uncertainty resulting from continued volatility could have other adverse impacts such as job losses in industries tied to energy, increased spending habits, lower borrowing needs, higher transaction deposit balances or a number of other effects that are difficult to isolate or quantify, particularly in states with significant dependence on the energy industry such as Texas, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third-party providers, could result in financial losses to us and/or in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, including client information, each of which could adversely affect our financial condition, damage our reputation and subject us to litigation.. As a financial institution, we may be the target of fraudulent activity that may result in financial losses to us or our clients, privacy breaches against our clients or damage to our reputation. Such fraudulent activity may take many forms, including check fraud, electronic fraud, wire fraud, phishing, unauthorized intrusion into or use of our systems, and other dishonest acts. We provide our clients with the ability to bank remotely, including online over the Internet and over the telephone. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet and other remote channels is a critical element of remote banking.. Additionally, our customers and employees have been, and will continue to be, targeted by parties using fraudulent e-mails and other communications in attempts to misappropriate passwords, bank account information or other personal information or to introduce viruses or other malware through \"Trojan horse\" programs to our information systems and/or our customers' computers. Information security risks for financial institutions related to these types of attacks have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists, and other external parties, including foreign state-sponsored parties. Though we endeavor to mitigate these threats through product improvements, use of encryption and authentication technology and customer and employee education, such cyberattacks against us or our merchants and our third party service providers remain a serious issue.. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect the computer systems and network infrastructure utilized by us, including our Internet, telephone and other remote channel banking activities, our debit and credit card payment processing activities, and our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loans and other systems, against damage from physical break-ins, cybersecurity breaches and other disruptive problems caused by the Internet or other users. Such computer break-ins and other disruptions would jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability, damage our reputation and inhibit current and potential customers from using our Internet banking services. While we maintain security measures to mitigate the risk of cybersecurity breaches, it is possible that we may not be able to anticipate, detect or recognize threats to its systems or to implement effective preventive measures against all security breaches of these types, especially because the techniques used change frequently or are not recognized until launched, and because cyberattacks can originate from a wide variety of sources, including third parties. Controls employed by our information technology department and cloud vendors could prove inadequate. These risks may increase in the future as we continue to increase our Internet-based product offerings and expand our internal usage of web-based products and applications. In addition, maintaining our security measures to seek to protect against the latest types of threats entails significant costs and creates risks associated with implementing new systems and integrating them with existing ones.. A breach of our security that results in unauthorized access to our data could expose us to a disruption or challenges relating to our daily operations, as well as to data loss, litigation, damages, fines and penalties, significant increases in compliance costs (such as repairing systems or adding new personnel or protection technologies), and reputational damage (including customer dissatisfaction), any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on our information technology and telecommunications systems of third parties, and any systems failures, interruptions or data breaches involving these systems could adversely affect our operations and financial condition.. Our business depends on the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems, third-party servicers and financial intermediaries. We outsource many of our major systems, such as data processing, loan servicing and deposit processing systems. The failure of these systems, or the termination of a third-party software license or service agreement on which any of these systems is based, could interrupt our operations, and we could experience difficulty in implementing replacement solutions. In many cases, our operations rely heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of information and the monitoring of a large number of transactions on a minute-by-minute basis, and. 23. even a short interruption in service could have significant consequences. In addition, we interact with and rely on financial counterparties, regulators and retailers for whom we process transactions. Each of these third parties may be targets of the same types of fraudulent activity, computer break-ins and other cybersecurity breaches described in the immediately preceding risk factor, and the cybersecurity measures that they maintain to mitigate the risk of such activity may be different than our own.. Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions. If significant, sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could compromise our ability to operate effectively, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, and subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, failure of third parties to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or fraud or misconduct on the part of employees of any of these third parties could disrupt our operations or adversely affect our reputation. We may also incur costs as a result of data or security breaches of third parties with whom we do not have a significant direct relationship. For example, various retailers and companies processing payments on their behalf have reported that they were victims of cyberattacks in which large amounts of their customers' data, including debit and credit card information, was obtained. In these situations, we generally incur costs to replace compromised cards and address fraudulent transaction activity affecting our customers.. As a result of financial entities and technology systems becoming more interdependent and complex, a cyber incident, information breach or loss, or technology failure that compromises the systems or data of one or more financial entities could have a material impact on counterparties or other market participants, including ourselves. For example, security breaches such as the Equifax incident made public in September 2017 may result in our customers requesting to freeze their credit accounts, which may impact the speed at which we can open or our ability to open new accounts. We have taken measures to implement backup systems and other safeguards to support our operations, but our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by any significant disruptions to us or to third parties with whom we interact.. We are subject to laws regarding the privacy, information security and protection of personal information and any violation of these laws or another incident involving personal, confidential or proprietary information of individuals could damage our reputation and otherwise adversely affect our operations and financial condition.. Our business requires the collection and retention of large volumes of customer data, including personally identifiable information in various information systems that we maintain and in those maintained by third parties with whom we contract to provide data services. We also maintain important internal company data such as personally identifiable information about our employees and information relating to our operations. We are subject to complex and evolving laws and regulations governing the privacy and protection of personal information of individuals (including customers, employees, suppliers and other third parties). For example, our business is subject to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act which, among other things: (i) imposes certain limitations on our ability to share nonpublic personal information about our customers with nonaffiliated third parties; (ii) requires that we provide certain disclosures to customers about our information collection, sharing and security practices and afford customers the right to \"opt out\" of any information sharing by us with nonaffiliated third parties (with certain exceptions); and (iii) requires that we develop, implement and maintain a written comprehensive information security program containing appropriate safeguards based on our size and complexity, the nature and scope of our activities, and the sensitivity of customer information we process, as well as plans for responding to data security breaches. Various state and federal banking regulators and states have also enacted data security breach notification requirements with varying levels of individual, consumer, regulatory or law enforcement notification in certain circumstances in the event of a security breach. Ensuring that our collection, use, transfer and storage of personal information complies with all applicable laws and regulations can increase our costs. Furthermore, we may not be able to ensure that all of our clients, suppliers, counterparties and other third parties have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information that they exchange with us, particularly where such information is transmitted by electronic means. If personal, confidential or proprietary information of customers or others were to be mishandled or misused (in situations where, for example, such information was erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, or where such information was intercepted or otherwise compromised by third parties), we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory sanctions under personal information laws and regulations. Concerns regarding the effectiveness of our measures to safeguard personal information, or even the perception that such measures are inadequate, could cause us to lose customers or potential customers for our products and services and thereby reduce our revenues. Accordingly, any failure or perceived failure to comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws and regulations may subject us to inquiries, examinations and investigations that could result in requirements to modify or cease certain operations or practices or in significant liabilities, fines or penalties, and could damage our reputation and otherwise adversely affect our operations and financial condition.. We continually encounter technological change.. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to. 24. better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements than we do. As a result, they may be able to offer additional or superior products to those that we will be able to provide, which would put us at a competitive disadvantage. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. In addition, the implementation of technological changes and upgrades to maintain current systems and integrate new ones may also cause service interruptions, transaction processing errors and system conversion delays, may cause us to fail to comply with applicable laws, and may cause us to incur additional expenses, which may be substantial. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry and avoid interruptions, errors and delays could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We expect that new technologies and business processes applicable to the consumer credit industry will continue to emerge and these new technologies and business processes may be better than those we currently use. Because the pace of technological change is high and our industry is intensely competitive, we may not be able to sustain our investment in new technology as critical systems and applications become obsolete or as better ones become available. A failure to maintain current technology and business processes could cause disruptions in our operations or cause our products and services to be less competitive, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We rely heavily on our management team and could be adversely affected by the unexpected loss of key personnel.. We are led by an experienced management team with substantial experience in the markets that we serve, and our operating strategy focuses on providing products and services through long-term relationship managers. Accordingly, our success depends in large part on the performance of our key personnel, as well as on our ability to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified senior and middle management. Competition for employees is intense, and we may be unsuccessful in locating key personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to execute our business plan. The cost of hiring, incentivizing, and retaining skilled personnel may continue to increase. We may not be successful in retaining our key employees, and the unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel, including our relationship managers, could also have a material adverse effect on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience, relationship-centric banking model, and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. If the services of any of our key personnel should become unavailable for any reason, we may not be able to identify and hire qualified persons on terms acceptable to us, which could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our indebtedness could affect our ability to meet our obligations and may otherwise restrict our activities.. As of December 31, 2017, the Company and its subsidiaries had approximately $470.8 million of gross indebtedness on a consolidated basis ($50.6 million of which represents junior subordinated debt reflected on the Company's balance sheet at $36.5 million after purchase accounting adjustment, net of amortization). Included in this indebtedness, as of December 31, 2017, the Company had $98.7 million of subordinated debt. Total interest expense on all outstanding indebtedness was $21.0 million on a pre-tax basis for the year ended December 31, 2017 (based on current LIBOR rates). Our subordinated indebtedness will mature between 2019 and 2029; our junior subordinated indebtedness will mature between 2033 and 2037. An increase in interest rates would increase our interest expense. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.\". Our indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could limit our ability to borrow money for our working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other corporate purposes; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the amount of cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development and other corporate requirements; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and limit our ability to respond to business opportunities, including growing our business through acquisitions. In addition, the instruments governing our indebtedness contain certain restrictive covenants, including with respect to consolidating or merging the Company or the Bank into another entity or transferring substantially all of their respective assets or properties. Certain of the Company's debt also contains restrictions on the Company's ability to assign or grant a security interest in or otherwise dispose of any shares of the voting stock of the Bank. Failure to meet any of these covenants could result in an event of default under these agreements. If an event of default occurs under these agreements, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under these agreements to be immediately due and payable.. 25. Our principal source of funds for interest and repayment of principal upon the maturity of our debt is dividends received directly from our subsidiaries, including the Bank. Federal and state statutes and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to us, with or without regulatory approval. We may not receive dividends sufficient to fund our debt obligations. In addition, we may not be able to refinance our indebtedness on substantially similar terms, or at all, at or prior to the time that it comes due.. We rely on customer deposits as a significant source of funding, and our deposits may decrease in the future.. We rely on customer deposits as a significant source of funding. Competition among U.S. banks for customer deposits is intense, and may increase the cost of deposits or prevent new deposits, and may otherwise negatively affect our ability to grow our deposit base. Our deposit accounts may decrease in the future, and any such decrease could have an adverse impact on our sources of funding, which impact could be material. Any changes we make to the rates offered on our deposit products to remain competitive with other financial institutions may adversely affect our profitability and liquidity. The demand for the deposit products we offer may also be reduced due to a variety of factors such as demographic patterns, changes in customer preferences, reductions in consumers' disposable income, regulatory actions that decrease customer access to particular products or the availability of competing products. In addition, a portion of our deposits are brokered deposits and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (\"FDIC\") uninsured deposits. The levels of these types of deposits that we hold may be more volatile during changing economic conditions. As of December 31, 2017, approximately $0.8 billion, or 8.8%, of our deposits consisted of brokered deposits.. We face significant competition to attract and retain customers and clients, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability.. We operate in the highly competitive banking industry and face significant competition in originating loans, attracting deposits and providing other financial services for customers from bank and non-bank competitors, particularly regional and nationwide institutions, including U.S. banks, mortgage banking companies, consumer finance companies, credit unions, insurance companies, and other institutional lenders and purchasers of loans. Many of our competitors are significantly larger and have significantly more resources, greater name recognition, larger market share, and more extensive and established branch networks than we do. Because of their scale, many of these competitors can be more aggressive than we can on loan and deposit pricing. Also, many of our non-bank competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. In addition, they may maintain a wider range of product offerings than we do, including more technology-based banking tools. We expect competition to continue to intensify due to financial institution consolidation; legislative, regulatory and technological changes; and the emergence of alternative banking sources.. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on a number of factors, including, among other things:. •  our ability to build and maintain long-term customer relationships while ensuring high ethical standards and safe and sound banking practices;. •  our ability to leverage existing client relationships;. •  our ability to build ancillary business through participation in Shared National Credits, or SNCs;. •  the success of our focused calling efforts;. •  our ability to attract and retain qualified employees to operate our business effectively;. •  our ability to expand our market position;. •  the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services that we offer;. •  customer satisfaction with our products and services;. •  industry and general economic trends; and. •  our ability to keep pace with technological advances and to invest in new technology.. Customer and client loyalty can also be influenced by a competitor's new products, especially offerings that could provide cost savings or a higher return to the customer. Increased competition could require us to increase the rates that we pay on deposits or lower the rates that we offer on loans, which could reduce our profitability. Our failure to compete effectively in our markets could restrain our growth or cause us to lose market share, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our concentration in Texas and the southeast United States and will be unable, as compared to our more geographically diversified peers, to spread our operating costs across a broader market.. 26. If we are not able to continue the historical levels of growth in our loan and deposit levels and market share, we may not be able to maintain our historical earnings trends.. Since our formation in 2009, we have consummated three major acquisitions, which have significantly contributed to growth in our loan and deposit levels and market share. We are pursuing an organic growth strategy focused on growing market share. This strategy may not sustain our historical rate of growth or our ability to grow at all. Our ability to execute our growth strategy, including by opening new branches, depends on a variety of factors, such as economic conditions and competition, which are beyond our control, and access to capital and liquidity to fund such growth. We may not be able to obtain the financing necessary to fund internal growth and we may not pursue growth through new acquisitions. Sustainable growth requires that we manage our risks by following prudent underwriting standards, balancing loan and deposit growth without increasing interest rate risk or compressing our net interest margin, maintaining more than adequate capital at all times, hiring and retaining qualified employees, and successfully implementing strategic projects and initiatives. Our growth strategy may also change from time to time as a result of various internal and external factors. For example, natural disasters and other events beyond our control may also adversely affect our growth. If we are not able to continue our historical levels of growth, we may not be able to maintain these historical earnings trends. The absence of these growth opportunities or our ability to manage our growth successfully, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be able to manage our growth effectively, which could adversely affect our business profitability and financial condition.. We may face a variety of risks and difficulties in pursuing our organic growth strategy and managing our growth, including, among other things:. •  maintaining asset quality;. •  finding suitable markets for expansion;. •  attracting funding to support additional growth;. •  managing execution risks;. •  attracting and retaining qualified management;. •  maintaining adequate regulatory capital;. •  managing a growing number of client relationships;. •  scaling technology platforms; and. •  achieving expected additional capacity of our relationship managers.. To manage our growth and maintain adequate information and reporting systems within our organization, we must identify, hire and retain qualified associates, particularly in the accounting and operational areas of our business. We must also successfully implement improvements to, or integrate, our management information and control systems, procedures and processes in an efficient or timely manner and identify deficiencies in existing systems and controls. In particular, our controls and procedures must be able to accommodate an increase in loan volume in various markets and the infrastructure that comes with expanding operations, including new branches. Our growth strategy may divert management from our existing franchises and may require us to incur additional expenditures to expand our administrative and operational infrastructure. If we are unable to effectively manage and grow our banking franchise, we may experience compliance and operational problems, have to slow the pace of growth, or have to incur additional expenditures beyond current projections to support such growth, any one of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. Greater seasoning of our loan portfolio could increase risk of credit defaults in the future.. A portion of loans in our loan portfolio and of our lending relationships are of relatively recent origin. The average age of our originated loans as of December 31, 2017 is 2.19 years. In general, loans do not begin to show signs of credit deterioration or default until they have been outstanding for some period of time (which varies by loan duration and loan type), a process referred to as \"seasoning.\" As a result, a portfolio of older loans will usually behave more predictably than a newer portfolio. Because a portion of our portfolio is relatively new, the current level of delinquencies and defaults may not represent the level that may prevail as the portfolio becomes more seasoned. If delinquencies and defaults increase, we may be required to increase our provision for credit losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 27. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information provided to us by our borrowers and counterparties and any misrepresented information could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In deciding whether to approve loans or to enter into other transactions with borrowers and counterparties, we rely on information furnished to us by, or on behalf of, borrowers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. We also rely on representations of borrowers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. If any of this information is intentionally or negligently misrepresented and such misrepresentation is not detected prior to loan funding, the value of the loan may be significantly lower than expected and we may be subject to regulatory action. Whether a misrepresentation is made by the loan applicant, another third party, or one of our employees, we generally bear the risk of loss associated with the misrepresentation. Our controls and processes may not have detected, or may not detect all, misrepresented information in our loan originations or from our business clients. Any such misrepresented information could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be able to raise additional capital in the future.. In the future, should we need additional capital to implement our business plan, support our business, expand our operations, or meet applicable capital requirements, we may not be able to raise additional funds in the form of additional debt or equity. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, and our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Economic conditions and a loss of confidence in financial institutions may increase our cost of funding and limit access to certain customary sources of capital, including inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the discount window of the Federal Reserve System (the \"Federal Reserve\").. Such capital may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, depositors of our bank or counterparties participating in the capital markets or other disruption in the capital markets, may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. Further, if we need to raise capital in the future, we may have to do so when many other financial institutions are also seeking to raise capital and would then have to compete with those institutions for investors. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. As a public company, we are required to meet periodic reporting requirements under the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the \"SEC\"). Complying with federal securities laws as a public company is expensive.. Prior to becoming a public company in April 2017, we were not required to comply with the requirements of the SEC to have our consolidated financial statements completed, reviewed or audited and filed within SEC-specified time frames. As a publicly traded company, we are now required to file periodic reports containing our consolidated financial statements with the SEC within a specified time following the completion of quarterly and annual periods. Any failure by us to file our periodic reports with the SEC in a timely manner could harm our reputation and cause investors and potential investors to lose confidence in us and reduce the market price of our Class A common stock.. The current economic environment poses significant challenges and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We are operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment. Financial institutions continue to be affected by uncertainty in the real estate market, the credit markets, and the national financial market generally. We retain direct exposure to the commercial and, to a lesser extent, residential, real estate markets, and we are affected by events in these markets. The uncertainty in economic conditions has subjected us and other financial institutions to increased regulatory scrutiny. In addition, deterioration in local economic conditions in our markets could result in losses beyond that provided for in our allowance for credit losses and result in increased loan delinquencies, problem assets, and foreclosures. This may also result in declining demand for products and services, decreased deposits and increased borrowings under our current contractual obligations to extend credit, all of which would adversely impact our liquidity positions, and declining values for loan collateral, which in turn would reduce customers' borrowing power and the value of assets and collateral associated with our existing loans.. Continued uncertainty regarding, and potential deterioration in, the fiscal position of the U.S. federal government and possible downgrades in U.S. Treasury and federal agency securities could adversely affect us and our banking operations.. The long-term outlook for the fiscal position of the U.S. federal government is uncertain, as illustrated by the 2011 downgrade by certain rating agencies of the credit rating of the U.S. government and federal agencies. In addition to causing economic and financial market disruptions, uncertainty regarding the fiscal position of the U.S. federal government (which could lead to, among other things, a future credit ratings downgrade of the U.S. government and federal agencies, failure to raise the U.S. statutory debt limit, or deterioration in the fiscal outlook of the U.S. federal government), could adversely affect the market value. 28. of the U.S. and other government and governmental agency securities that we hold, the availability of those securities as collateral for borrowing and our ability to access capital markets on favorable terms. In particular, it could increase interest rates and disrupt payment systems, money markets, and long-term or short-term fixed income markets, adversely affecting the cost and availability of funding, which could negatively affect our profitability. Also, the adverse consequences of this uncertainty could extend to those to whom we extend credit and could adversely affect their ability to repay their loans. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions.. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services companies are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, and other relationships. We have exposure to different industries and counterparties including through transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about the soundness of, one or more financial services companies, or the financial services industry generally, have historically led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. These losses or defaults could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have a significant deferred tax asset that may not be fully realized in the future.. Our net deferred tax asset totaled $30.8 million as of December 31, 2017, which included $9.9 million attributable to federal and state net operating loss carryforwards. The ultimate realization of a deferred tax asset is generally dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the period prior to the expiration of the applicable net operating losses. In addition, a portion of our net operating losses are currently subject to the limitations of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, which may limit our ability to offset future taxable income. As of December 31, 2017, $41.1 million of our net operating loss carryforward was limited to $3.1 million per year, which will require us to generate at least $3.1 million of taxable income annually through the year 2030 to fully realize the deferred tax asset. We recorded a one-time charge in income tax expense of $19.0 million (or $0.22 per share of Class A common stock) related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted in December 2017, which required a re-measurement of, which resulted in a decrease of, our deferred tax asset. The value of our deferred tax asset is also derived in part from estimates and assumptions regarding our expected future tax liability. If our estimates and assumptions about future taxable income or our future tax liability are not accurate, including the application of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act or any changes to tax laws and regulations applicable to us, the value of our deferred tax asset may not be recoverable, in whole or in part, and we may be required to record a valuation allowance that would negatively impact our earnings.. Many of our loans are to commercial borrowers, which have unique risks compared to other types of loans.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $6.3 billion of commercial loans comprising of $5.1 billion in commercial and industrial and $1.2 billion in commercial real estate, representing approximately 76% of our total loan portfolio. Because payments on these loans are often dependent on the successful operation or development of the property or business involved, their repayment is sensitive to adverse conditions in the real estate market and the general economy. Accordingly, downturns in the real estate market and economy increase the risk related to commercial loans, particularly commercial real estate loans. Commercial loans are also subject to loan specific risks, including risks associated with construction, cost overruns, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk and risks associated with the ultimate sale or use of the completed construction. If a decline in economic conditions, natural disasters affecting commercial development or other issues cause difficulties for our borrowers of these types of business loans, if we fail to evaluate the credit of these loans accurately when we underwrite them or if we do not continue to monitor adequately the performance of these loans, our lending portfolio could experience delinquencies, defaults and credit losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our loan portfolio has significant concentration in energy and our specialized industries.. Much of our lending activity is concentrated in energy and our specialized industries. As of December 31, 2017, we had a total of $1.9 billion of loans, or 22.5% of our total loans, to companies operating in the restaurant industry, healthcare and technology industries, and $0.9 billion, or 11.3%, to companies operating in the energy sector. These industries and businesses are sensitive to economic conditions and complex factors (such as supply chain factors), which may expose us to the risk of economic downturns and other risks unique to these industries. Oil prices can fluctuate widely on a month-to-month basis in response to a variety of factors that are beyond our control. Factors that contribute to price fluctuations include instability in oil-producing regions, worldwide economic conditions, weather conditions, the supply and price of domestic and foreign oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, consumer demand, the price and availability of alternative fuels, the proximity to, and capacity of, transportation facilities and the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures. Adverse economic conditions or business. 29. conditions relating to these industries could negatively impact our operating results more than if our loan portfolio was not concentrated in these industries.. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is comprised of participation and shared national credits, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to monitor the lending relationships and lead to an increased risk of loss.. We achieved a significant portion of our loan growth in our initial years of operation by participating in loans originated by other institutions and by participating in shared national credits, broadly defined as loans to larger institutions by a group of participating lenders where the client's needs are larger than any individual lender can prudently provide, and in which other lenders serve as the agent bank. Additionally, our specialized industries lending includes larger, national companies that tend to be served through shared national credits. As of December 31, 2017, $3.0 billion, or approximately 36% of our total loans, consisted of participations or shared national credits in which we are not the lead bank. Our reduced control over the monitoring and management of these relationships, particularly participations in large bank groups, could lead to increased risk of loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. The amount of nonperforming and classified assets may increase significantly, resulting in additional losses, and costs and expenses that will negatively affect our operations and financial condition.. At December 31, 2017, we had a total of approximately $71 million of nonperforming assets or approximately 0.65% of total assets. Total assets classified as \"substandard,\" \"doubtful\" or \"loss\" as of December 31, 2017 were approximately $242 million, or approximately 2.2% of total assets.. An asset is generally considered \"substandard\" if it is inadequately protected by the current net worth and paying capacity of the borrower or of the collateral pledged, if any. \"Substandard\" assets include those characterized by the \"distinct possibility\" that we will sustain \"some loss\" if the deficiencies are not corrected. Assets classified as \"doubtful\" have all of the weaknesses inherent in those classified \"substandard\" with the added characteristic that the weaknesses present make \"collection or liquidation in full,\" on the basis of currently existing facts, conditions, and values, \"highly questionable and improbable.\" Assets classified as \"loss\" are those considered \"uncollectible\" and of such little value that their continuance as assets without the establishment of a specific loss reserve is not warranted.. Should the amount of nonperforming assets increase in the future, we may incur losses, and the costs and expenses to maintain such assets likewise can be expected to increase and potentially negatively affect earnings. Any additional increase in losses due to such assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Such effects may be particularly pronounced in a market of reduced real estate values and excess inventory.. The amount of other real estate owned (\"OREO\") may increase significantly, resulting in additional losses, and costs and expenses that will negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial conditions. In addition, certain of our OREO assets may take longer to liquidate, which may result in additional losses and costs and expenses that will negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We foreclose on and take title to the real estate serving as collateral as part of our business. Real estate owned by us and not used in the ordinary course of our operations is referred to as \"other real estate owned\" or \"OREO\" property. At December 31, 2017, we held approximately $8 million of OREO. In the event the amount of OREO should increase due to an increase in defaults on bank loans, our losses, and the costs and expenses to maintain the real estate likewise would increase. In addition, approximately $3 million of our OREO assets consist of residential properties that often take longer to liquidate, which may increase the costs and expenses associated with our OREO assets. Any additional increase in losses, and maintenance costs and expenses due to OREO such as personnel costs, insurance and taxes, completion and repair costs, valuation adjustments and other expenses associated with property ownership and funding costs associated with OREO property may have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Such effects may be particularly pronounced in a market of reduced real estate values and excess inventory, which may make the disposition of OREO properties more difficult, increase maintenance costs and expenses, reduce our ultimate realization from any OREO sales, and/or result in a write down of the carrying value of the OREO properties, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Nonperforming assets take significant time and resources to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Nonperforming assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We generally do not record interest income on nonperforming loans or OREO, thereby adversely affecting our income and increasing loan administration costs. When we take collateral in foreclosures and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the related asset to the then fair market value of the collateral, which may ultimately result in a loss. An increase in the level of nonperforming assets increases our risk profile and may. 30. impact the capital levels regulators believe are appropriate in light of the ensuing risk profile. While we seek to reduce problem assets through loan workouts, restructurings, and otherwise, decreases in the value of the underlying collateral, or in these borrowers' performance or financial condition, whether or not due to economic and market conditions beyond our control, could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires significant commitments of time from management, which may materially and adversely impact their ability to perform their other responsibilities. We may not experience future increases in the value of nonperforming assets.. By engaging in derivative transactions, we are exposed to credit and market risk, which could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition.. We manage interest rate risk by, among other things, utilizing derivative instruments to minimize significant unplanned fluctuations in earnings that are caused by interest rate volatility. For example, in June 2015, we purchased $982 million in notional of interest rate swap contracts designated as hedging instruments in cash flow hedges, and in March 2016, we purchased $350 million of interest rate swap contracts designated as hedging instruments in cash flow hedges. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\" Hedging interest rate risk is a complex process, requiring sophisticated models and constant monitoring, and is not a perfect science. Due to interest rate fluctuations, hedged assets and liabilities will appreciate or depreciate in market value. The effect of this unrealized appreciation or depreciation will generally be offset by income or loss on the derivative instruments that are linked to the hedged assets and liabilities. By engaging in derivative transactions, we are exposed to credit and market risk. If the counterparty fails to perform, credit risk exists to the extent of the fair value gain in the derivative. Market risk exists to the extent that interest rates change in ways that are significantly different from what we expected when we entered into the derivative transaction. The existence of credit and market risk associated with our derivative instruments could adversely affect our net interest income and, therefore, could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our current interest rate hedges began to roll off at the end of 2017 and we do not currently expect to enter into interest rate swaps or like arrangements in the near-term. Failure to manage interest rate risk could have a material adverse effect on our business. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.\". The fair value of our investment securities may decline.. As of December 31, 2017, the fair value of our investment securities portfolio was approximately $1.26 billion. Factors beyond our control can significantly influence the fair value of securities in our portfolio and can cause potential adverse changes to the fair value of these securities. These factors include, but are not limited to, rating agency actions in respect of the securities, defaults by, or other adverse events affecting, the issuer or with respect to the underlying securities, and changes in market interest rates and continued instability in the capital markets. Any of these factors, among others, could cause other-than-temporary impairments and realized and/or unrealized losses in future periods and declines in other comprehensive income, which could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The process for determining whether impairment of a security is other-than-temporary usually requires complex, subjective judgments about the future financial performance and liquidity of the issuer and any collateral underlying the security to assess the probability of receiving all contractual principal and interest payments on the security.. Any future acquisitions will subject us to a variety of risks, including execution risks, failure to realize anticipated transaction benefits, and failure to overcome integration risks, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability.. We regularly consider potential acquisition opportunities that we believe would support our businesses and enhance our profitability. In the event that we do pursue acquisitions, we may have difficulty executing on acquisitions and may not realize the anticipated benefits of any transaction we complete. Any of the foregoing matters could materially and adversely affect us.. Generally, any acquisition of target financial institutions, branches or other banking assets by us will require approval by, and cooperation from, a number of governmental regulatory agencies, possibly including the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the \"OCC\") and the FDIC, as well as state banking regulators. Such regulators could deny our application, which would restrict our growth, or the regulatory approvals may not be granted on terms that are acceptable to us. For example, we could be required to sell branches as a condition to receiving regulatory approvals, and such a condition may not be acceptable to us or may reduce the benefit of an acquisition.. As to any acquisition that we complete, we may fail to realize some or all of the anticipated transaction benefits if the integration process takes longer or is more costly than expected or otherwise fails to meet our expectations.. 31. In addition, acquisition activities could be material to our business and involve a number of risks, including the following:. •  incurring time and expense associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and negotiating potential transactions, resulting in our attention being diverted from the operation of our existing business;. •  using inaccurate estimates and judgments to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution or assets;. •  projected results may vary significantly from actual results;. •  intense competition from other banking organizations and other inquirers for acquisitions;. •  potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of banks and businesses we acquire;. •  unexpected asset quality problems;. •  the time and expense required to integrate the operations and personnel of the combined businesses;. •  experiencing higher operating expenses relative to operating income from the new operations;. •  creating an adverse short-term effect on our results of operations;. •  losing key employees and customers as a result of an acquisition that is poorly received;. •  significant problems relating to the conversion of the financial and customer data of the entity;. •  integration of acquired customers into our financial and customer product systems;. •  risk of assuming businesses with internal control deficiencies; or. •  risks of impairment to goodwill or other than temporary impairment of investment securities.. Depending on the condition of any institution or assets or liabilities that we may acquire, that acquisition may, at least in the near term, adversely affect our capital and earnings and, if not successfully integrated with our organization, may continue to have such effects over a longer period. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with potential acquisitions, and any acquisition we may consider will be subject to prior regulatory approval. Also, acquisitions may involve the payment of a premium over book and market values and, therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. Our inability to overcome these risks could have a material adverse effect on our profitability, return on equity and return on assets, our ability to implement our business strategy and enhance stockholder value, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, our inability to overcome these risks could materially and adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock, which could make it difficult to sell your shares at the volume, price or time desired.. If the goodwill that we record in connection with a business acquisition becomes impaired, it could require charges to earnings, which would have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Goodwill represents the amount by which the purchase price exceeds the fair value of net assets we acquire in a business combination. We review goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of the asset might be impaired.. We evaluate for potential impairment by comparing the estimated fair value with the carrying amount of each reporting unit. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds the estimated fair value of that reporting unit, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to the excess of the carrying value of goodwill over the implied fair value of the goodwill. Factors that could cause an impairment charge include adverse changes to macroeconomic conditions, declines in the profitability of the reporting unit or declines in the tangible book value of the reporting unit. At December 31, 2017, our goodwill totaled $317.8 million. Although we have not recorded any impairment charges since we initially recorded the goodwill, our future evaluations of goodwill may result in findings of impairment and related impairment losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are required to make significant estimates and assumptions in the preparation of our financial statements. These estimates and assumptions may not be accurate and are subject to change.. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires our management to make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements, and the reported amounts of income and expense during the reporting periods. Critical estimates are made by management in determining, among other things, the accounting for business. 32. combinations, estimates of fair value, allowance for credit losses, accounting for acquired loans and other real estate owned and valuation of our deferred tax asset. If our underlying estimates and assumptions prove to be incorrect or if events occur that require us to revise our previous estimates or assumptions, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.. We are subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, employee or customer fraud, the obligation to repurchase sold loans in the event of a documentation error, and data processing system failures and errors.. Employee errors and employee and customer misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. Misconduct by our employees could include, among other things, improper use of confidential information or engaging in unauthorized activities on behalf of our customers. It is not always possible to prevent such employee errors and misconduct or documentation errors, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Employee errors and misconduct could also subject us to financial claims for negligence.. While we maintain a system of internal controls and insurance coverage to mitigate against operational risks, if our internal controls fail to prevent or detect an occurrence, or if any resulting loss is not insured or exceeds applicable insurance limits, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, we rely heavily upon information supplied by third parties, including the information contained in credit applications, property appraisals, title information, equipment pricing and valuation and employment and income documentation, in deciding which loans we will originate, as well as the terms of those loans. If any of the information upon which we rely is misrepresented, either fraudulently or inadvertently, and the misrepresentation is not detected prior to asset funding, the value of the asset may be significantly lower than expected, or we may fund a loan that we would not have funded or on terms we would not have extended. Whether a misrepresentation is made by the applicant or another third party, we generally bear the risk of loss associated with such misrepresentation. A loan subject to a material misrepresentation is typically unsellable or subject to repurchase if it is sold prior to detection of the misrepresentation. The sources of the misrepresentations are often difficult to identify, and it is often difficult to recover any of the monetary losses we may suffer.. We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with our lending activities.. We own certain of our properties, and, in the course of our business, we may purchase real estate, or we may foreclose on and take title to real estate. As a result, we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial and could exceed the value of the underlying properties. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. Any significant environmental liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We offer third-party products including mutual funds, annuities, life insurance, individual securities and other wealth management products which could experience significant declines in value subjecting us to reputational damage and litigation risk.. We offer third-party products including mutual funds, annuities, life insurance, individual securities and other wealth management products. If these products do not generate competitive risk-adjusted returns that satisfy clients in a variety of asset classes, we will have difficulty maintaining existing business and attracting new business. Additionally, our wealth management business involves the risk that clients or others may sue us, claiming that we have failed to perform under a contract or otherwise failed to carry out a duty owed to them. This risk may be heightened during periods when credit, equity or other financial markets are deteriorating in value or are particularly volatile, or when clients or investors are experiencing losses. Significant declines in the performance of these third-party products could subject us to reputational damage and litigation risk.. We are subject to litigation, which could result in substantial judgment or settlement costs.. We are regularly involved in litigation matters in the ordinary course of business. While we believe that these litigation matters should not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or future prospects, we may be unable to successfully defend or resolve any current or future litigation matters, in which case those litigation matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 33. Acts or threats of terrorism and political or military actions taken by the United States or other governments could adversely affect general economic or industry conditions.. Geopolitical conditions may affect our earnings. Acts or threats of terrorism and political or military actions taken by the United States or other governments, including in response to terrorism or similar activity, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Relating to the Regulation of Our Industry. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be adversely affected by the highly regulated environment in which we operate.. As a bank holding company, we are subject to federal supervision and regulation. Federal regulation of the banking industry, along with tax and accounting laws, regulations, rules and standards, may limit our operations significantly and control the methods by which we conduct business, just as they limit those of other banking organizations. In addition, compliance with laws and regulations can be difficult and costly, and changes to laws and regulations can impose additional compliance costs. The Dodd-Frank Act, which imposes significant regulatory and compliance changes on financial institutions, is an example of this type of federal regulation. Many of these regulations are intended to protect depositors, customers, the public, the banking system as a whole or the FDIC insurance funds, not stockholders. Regulatory requirements and discretion affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and many other aspects of our business. There are laws and regulations which restrict transactions between us and our subsidiaries. These requirements may constrain our operations, and the adoption of new laws and changes to or repeal of existing laws may have a further impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Also, the burden imposed by those federal and state regulations may place banks in general, including our Bank in particular, at a competitive disadvantage compared to their non-bank competitors. We are also subject to requirements with respect to the confidentiality of information obtained from clients concerning their identities, business and personal financial information, employment, and other matters. We require our personnel to agree to keep all such information confidential and we monitor compliance. Failure to comply with confidentiality requirements could result in material liability and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. Bank holding companies and financial institutions are extensively regulated and currently face an uncertain regulatory environment. Applicable laws, regulations, interpretations, enforcement policies and accounting principles have been subject to significant changes in recent years, and may be subject to significant future changes. Future changes may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Federal and state regulatory agencies may adopt changes to their regulations or change the manner in which existing regulations are applied. We cannot predict the substance or effect of pending or future legislation or regulation or the application of laws and regulations to our Company. Compliance with current and potential regulation, as well as regulatory scrutiny, may significantly increase our costs, impede the efficiency of our internal business processes, require us to increase our regulatory capital, and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner by requiring us to expend significant time, effort and resources to ensure compliance and respond to any regulatory inquiries or investigations. In addition, press coverage and other public statements that assert some form of wrongdoing by financial services companies (including press coverage and public statements that do not involve us) may result in regulatory inquiries or investigations, which, independent of the outcome, may be time-consuming and expensive and may divert time, effort and resources from our business. Evolving regulations and guidance concerning executive compensation may also impose limitations on us that affect our ability to compete successfully for executive and management talent.. In addition, given the current economic and financial environment, regulators may elect to alter standards or the interpretation of the standards used to measure regulatory compliance or to determine the adequacy of liquidity, certain risk management or other operational practices for financial services companies in a manner that impacts our ability to implement our strategy and could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the regulatory agencies have extremely broad discretion in their interpretation of the regulations and laws and their interpretation of the quality of our loan portfolio, securities portfolio and other assets. If any regulatory agency's assessment of the quality of our assets, operations, lending practices, investment practices, capital structure or other aspects of our business differs from our assessment, we may be required to take additional charges or undertake or refrain from taking actions that would have the effect of materially reducing our earnings, capital ratios and share price.. 34. Because our total assets exceeded $10 billion as of December 31, 2017, we will become subject to additional regulatory requirements, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. Various federal banking laws and regulations, including rules adopted by the Federal Reserve pursuant to the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act, impose heightened requirements on certain large banks and bank holding companies. Most of these rules apply primarily to bank holding companies with at least $50 billion in total consolidated assets, but certain rules also apply to banks and bank holding companies with at least $10 billion in total consolidated assets.. Our total assets were $10.9 billion and Cadence Bank's total assets were $10.9 billion as of December 31, 2017, the second quarter-end as of which total assets exceeded $10 billion. As a result, after September 30, 2018, which we expect will be the fourth consecutive quarter in which total average consolidated assets exceed $10 billion (and any applicable phase-in period), we and Cadence Bank will, among other requirements:. •  be required to perform annual stress tests;. •  be required to establish a dedicated risk committee of our board of directors responsible for overseeing our enterprise-risk management policies, commensurate with our capital structure, risk profile, complexity, size and other risk-related factors, and including as a member at least one risk management expert;. •  calculate our FDIC deposits assessment base using a performance score and loss-severity score system;. •  be subject to deposit insurance surcharges under the FDIC's rule increasing the reserve ratio for the DIF to 1.35%;. •  be subject to more frequent regulatory examinations; and. •  may be subject to examination for compliance with federal consumer protection laws by the CFPB.. In addition, Cadence and Cadence Bank will be affected by the Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act regarding limits on debit card interchange fees. The Durbin Amendment gave the Federal Reserve Board the authority to establish rules regarding interchange fees charged for electronic debit transactions by a payment card issuer that, together with its affiliates, has assets of $10 billion or more and to enforce a new statutory requirement that such fees be reasonable and proportional to the actual cost of a transaction to the issuer. The Federal Reserve Board has adopted rules under this provision that limit the swipe fees that a debit card issuer can charge a merchant for a transaction to the sum of 21 cents and five basis points times the value of the transaction, plus up to one cent for fraud prevention costs.. Furthermore, deposit insurance assessments and expenses related to regulatory compliance are likely to increase, and interchange fee income will decrease, the cumulative effect of which may be significant, and are on a cumulative basis, currently anticipated to be less than $6.5 million after-tax annually. The ultimate impact of the heightened scrutiny to which we will be subject is uncertain but we may be adversely affected and may incur increased costs related to regulatory oversight. In preparation for these additional regulations, we have engaged third parties to provide DFAST readiness assessments and roadmaps, and large bank deposit insurance assessment implementation guidance. Over the last couple years, we have made targeted enhancements to our risk management framework, systems and personnel in anticipation of continued growth over $10 billion.. Legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future may increase our costs and impact our business, governance structure, financial condition or results of operations. Proposed legislative and regulatory actions, including changes to financial regulation, may not occur on the timeframe that is expected, or at all, which could result in additional uncertainly for our business.. We and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation by multiple regulatory bodies. These regulations may affect the manner and terms of delivery of our services. If we do not comply with governmental regulations, we may be subject to fines, penalties, lawsuits or material restrictions on our businesses in the jurisdiction where the violation occurred, which may adversely affect our business operations. Changes in these regulations can significantly affect the services that we provide as well as our costs of compliance with such regulations. In addition, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation arising from the failure or perceived failure to comply with legal, regulatory or contractual requirements could affect our ability to attract and retain customers.. Current and recent-past economic conditions, particularly in the financial markets, have resulted in government regulatory agencies and political bodies placing increased focus and scrutiny on the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly changed the regulation of financial institutions and the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act and the regulations thereunder affect large and small financial institutions, including several provisions that will affect how community banks, thrifts and small bank and thrift holding companies will be regulated in the future.. 35. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was enacted in December 2017. This legislation made significant changes to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, many of which are highly complex and may require interpretations and implementing regulations. As a result, we may incur meaningful expenses (including professional fees) as the new legislation is implemented and the expected impact of certain aspects of the legislation is unclear and subject to change.. New proposals for legislation continue to be introduced in the U.S. Congress that could further substantially increase regulation of the financial services industry, impose restrictions on the operations and general ability of firms within the industry to conduct business consistent with historical practices, including in the areas of compensation, interest rates, financial product offerings and disclosures, and have an effect on bankruptcy proceedings with respect to consumer residential real estate mortgages, among other things. Federal and state regulatory agencies also frequently adopt changes to their regulations or change the manner in which existing regulations are applied. The Trump administration has also indicated in public statements that the Dodd-Frank Act will be under scrutiny and that some of its provisions and the rules promulgated thereunder may be revised, repealed or amended. In addition, President Donald Trump has issued an executive order directing the review of existing financial regulations. It is not clear when, or if, changes to existing statutory or regulatory requirements may be implemented.. Certain aspects of current or proposed regulatory or legislative changes, including to laws applicable to the financial industry, if enacted or adopted, may impact the profitability of our business activities, require more oversight or change certain of our business practices, including the ability to offer new products, obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans and achieve satisfactory interest spreads, and could expose us to additional costs, including increased compliance costs. These changes also may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes to operations to comply, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any proposed legislative or regulatory changes, including those that could benefit our business, financial condition and results of operations, may not occur on the timeframe that is proposed, or at all, which could result in additional uncertainty for our business.. Regulatory initiatives regarding bank capital requirements may require heightened capital.. Regulatory capital rules, adopted in July 2013, implement higher minimum capital requirements for bank holding companies and banks. The rules, which implement the Basel III regulatory capital reforms from the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, include a common equity Tier 1 capital requirement and establish criteria that instruments must meet to be considered common equity Tier 1 capital, additional Tier 1 capital or Tier 2 capital. These enhancements were intended to both improve the quality and increase the quantity of capital required to be held by banking organizations, and to better equip the U.S. banking system to deal with adverse economic conditions. The capital rules require banks and bank holding companies to maintain a minimum common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%, a minimum total Tier 1 capital ratio of 6%, a minimum total capital ratio of 8%, and a minimum leverage ratio of 4%. Bank holding companies and banks are also required to hold a capital conservation buffer of common equity Tier 1 capital of 2.5% (when fully phased in) to avoid limitations on capital distributions and discretionary executive compensation payments. The revised capital rules will also require banks to maintain a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.5%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8%, a total capital ratio of 10% and a leverage ratio of 5% to be deemed \"well capitalized\" for purposes of certain rules and prompt corrective action requirements.. In December 2017, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision published standards that it described as the finalization of the Basel III regulatory framework (commonly referred to as Basel IV). Among other things, these standards revise the Basel Committee's standardized approach for credit risk and provide a new standardized approach for operational risk capital. Under the Basel framework, these standards will generally be effective on January 1, 2022, with an aggregate output floor phasing in through January 1, 2027. Under the current U.S. capital rules, operational risk capital requirements and a capital floor apply only to advanced approaches institutions, and not to the Company or the Bank. The impact of Basel IV on us will depend on the manner in which it is implemented by the federal bank regulators.. The Federal Reserve may also set higher capital requirements for holding companies whose circumstances warrant it. For example, holding companies experiencing internal growth or making acquisitions are expected to maintain strong capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory levels, without significant reliance on intangible assets. At this time, the bank regulatory agencies are more inclined to impose higher capital requirements to meet well-capitalized standards, and future regulatory change could impose higher capital standards as a routine matter. The Company's, its subsidiaries' and Cadence Bancorp LLC's regulatory capital ratios currently are in excess of the levels established for \"well-capitalized\" institutions.. Any new standards may require the Company, the Bank or Cadence Bancorp LLC to maintain materially more capital, with common equity as a more predominant component, or manage the configuration of our assets and liabilities to comply with formulaic liquidity requirements. Our ability to raise additional capital depends on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, including investor perceptions regarding the banking industry, market conditions and governmental activities, and on our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, we may not be able to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. Failure to maintain capital to meet current or future regulatory requirements could. 36. significantly impact our return on equity, financial condition, operations, capital position and ability to pursue business opportunities which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Regulators periodically examine our business and we may be required to remediate adverse examination findings.. The Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the OCC periodically examine our business, including our compliance with laws and regulations, and we may become subject to other regulatory agency examinations in the future. If, as a result of an examination, a federal banking agency were to determine that our financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity, or other aspects of any of our operations had become unsatisfactory, or that we were in violation of any law or regulation, it may require us to take a number of different remedial actions as it deems appropriate. These actions include the power to enjoin \"unsafe or unsound\" practices, to require affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to issue an administrative order that can be judicially enforced, to direct an increase in our capital, to restrict our growth by preventing us from acquiring other financial institutions or limiting our ability to expand our business by engaging in new activities, to change the asset composition of our portfolio or balance sheet, to assess civil monetary penalties against our officers or directors, to remove officers and directors and, if it is concluded that such conditions cannot be corrected or there is an imminent risk of loss to depositors, to terminate our deposit insurance and place us into receivership or conservatorship. Any regulatory action against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments may increase.. The deposits of the Bank are insured by the FDIC up to legal limits and, accordingly, subject to the Bank's payment of FDIC deposit insurance assessments. The Bank's regular assessments are based on its average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity as well as by risk classification, which includes regulatory capital levels and the level of supervisory concern. High levels of bank failures since the beginning of the most recent financial crisis and increases in the statutory deposit insurance limits have increased resolution costs to the FDIC and put significant pressure on the DIF. To maintain a strong funding position and restore the reserve ratios of the DIF, the FDIC increased deposit insurance assessment rates and charged a special assessment to all FDIC-insured financial institutions. The FDIC has also imposed surcharges on insured depository institutions with assets of at least $10 billion. Further increases in assessment rates or special assessments may occur in the future, especially if there are significant additional financial institution failures. Any future special assessments, increases in assessment rates or required prepayments in FDIC insurance premiums could reduce our profitability or limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Federal Reserve may require us to commit capital resources to support Cadence Bank.. As a matter of policy, the Federal Reserve expects a bank holding company to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to a subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support such subsidiary bank. The Dodd-Frank Act codified the Federal Reserve's policy on serving as a source of financial strength. Under the \"source of strength\" doctrine, the Federal Reserve may require a bank holding company to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary bank and may charge the bank holding company with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices for failure to commit resources to a subsidiary bank. A capital injection may be required at times when the holding company may not have the resources to provide it and therefore may be required to borrow the funds or raise capital. Any loans by a holding company to its subsidiary banks are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. In the event of a bank holding company's bankruptcy, the bankruptcy trustee will assume any commitment by the holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank. Moreover, bankruptcy law provides that claims based on any such commitment will be entitled to a priority of payment over the claims of the institution's general unsecured creditors, including the holders of its note obligations. Thus, any borrowing that must be done by the bank holding company to make the required capital injection becomes more difficult and expensive and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Future consumer legislation or actions could harm our competitive position.. In addition to the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, various legislative bodies have also recently been considering altering the existing framework governing creditors' rights, including legislation that would result in, or allow, loan modifications of various sorts. Such legislation may change banking statutes and the operating environment in substantial and unpredictable ways. If enacted, such legislation could increase the cost of doing business; limit permissible activities; or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions. We cannot predict whether new legislation will be enacted, and if enacted, the effect that it or any regulations would have on our activities, financial condition, or results of operations.. 37. We are subject to numerous laws designed to protect consumers, including the CRA and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to a wide variety of sanctions.. The CRA, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act and other fair lending laws and regulations impose non-discriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. The Department of Justice and other federal agencies, including the CFPB, are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. A successful regulatory challenge to an institution's performance under the CRA or fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, restrictions on mergers and acquisitions activity, restrictions on expansion, and restrictions on entering new business lines. In the case of the CRA, the performance of a financial institution in meeting the credit needs of its community and its overall CRA rating are factors that will be taken into consideration when the federal banking agencies evaluate applications related to mergers and acquisitions, as well as branch opening and relocations. Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution's performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation. Such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Federal, state and local consumer lending laws may restrict our ability to originate certain mortgage loans or increase our risk of liability with respect to such loans and could increase our cost of doing business.. Federal, state and local laws have been adopted that are intended to eliminate certain lending practices considered \"predatory.\" These laws prohibit practices such as steering borrowers away from more affordable products, selling unnecessary insurance to borrowers, repeatedly refinancing loans and making loans without a reasonable expectation that the borrowers will be able to repay the loans irrespective of the value of the underlying property. It is our policy not to make predatory loans, but these laws create the potential for liability with respect to our lending and loan investment activities. They increase our cost of doing business and, ultimately, may prevent us from making certain loans and cause us to reduce the average percentage rate or the points and fees on loans that we do make.. The expanding body of federal, state and local regulations and/or the licensing of loan servicing, collections or other aspects of our business and our sales of loans to third parties may increase the cost of compliance and the risks of noncompliance and subject us to litigation.. We service some of our own loans, and loan servicing is subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities as well as to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on those activities. The volume of new or modified laws and regulations has increased in recent years and, in addition, some individual municipalities have begun to enact laws that restrict loan servicing activities including delaying or temporarily preventing foreclosures or forcing the modification of certain mortgages. If regulators impose new or more restrictive requirements, we may incur additional significant costs to comply with such requirements which may further adversely affect us. In addition, were we to be subject to regulatory investigation or regulatory action regarding our loan modification and foreclosure practices, our financial condition and results of operation could be adversely affected.. In addition, we and our legacy companies have sold loans to third parties. In connection with these sales, we or certain of our subsidiaries or legacy companies make or have made various representations and warranties, breaches of which may result in a requirement that we repurchase the loans, or otherwise make whole or provide other remedies to counterparties. These aspects of our business or our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could possibly lead to: civil and criminal liability; loss of licensure; damage to our reputation in the industry; fines and penalties and litigation, including class action lawsuits; and administrative enforcement actions. Any of these outcomes could materially and adversely affect us.. Potential limitations on incentive compensation contained in proposed federal agency rulemaking may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain our highest performing employees.. In April 2011 and May 2016, the Federal Reserve, other federal banking agencies and the SEC jointly published proposed rules designed to implement provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act prohibiting incentive compensation arrangements that would encourage inappropriate risk taking at covered financial institutions, which includes a bank or bank holding company with $1 billion or more in assets, such as Cadence Bank. It cannot be determined at this time whether or when a final rule will be adopted and whether compliance with such a final rule will substantially affect the manner in which we structure compensation for our executives and other employees. Depending on the nature and application of the final rules, we may not be able to successfully compete with certain financial institutions and other companies that are not subject to some or all of the rules to retain and attract executives and other high performing employees. If this were to occur, relationships that we have established with our clients may be impaired and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially.. 38. Failure to comply with economic and trade sanctions or with applicable anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Office of Foreign Assets Control administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions against targeted foreign countries and regimes, under authority of various laws, including designated foreign countries, nationals and others. We are responsible for, among other things, blocking accounts of, and transactions with, such persons and countries, prohibiting unlicensed trade and financial transactions with them and reporting blocked transactions after their occurrence. Through our company and the Bank, and our agents and employees, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\"), which prohibits offering, promising, giving, or authorizing others to give anything of value, either directly or indirectly, to a non-U.S. government official in order to influence official action or otherwise gain an unfair business advantage. The Company is also subject to applicable anti-corruption laws in the jurisdictions in which it may operate. The Company has implemented policies, procedures, and internal controls that are designed to comply with economic and trade sanctions or with applicable anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA. Failure to comply with economic and trade sanctions or with applicable anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA, could have serious legal and reputational consequences for us.. Risks Relating to Cadence Bancorp, LLC and Our Status as a Controlled Company. Cadence Bancorp, LLC holds approximately 65.6% of the voting power of our common stock and effectively controls our management and affairs. This will prevent you and other minority stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions and may result in conflicts of interest.. Cadence Bancorp, LLC owns approximately 65.6% of our outstanding Class A common stock. As a result, Cadence Bancorp, LLC continues to own shares sufficient for the majority vote over all matters requiring a stockholder vote, including:. •  the election of directors;. •  mergers, consolidations and acquisitions;. •  the sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other decisions affecting our capital structure; the amendment of our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws; and. •  our winding up and dissolution.. This concentration of ownership may delay, deter or prevent acts that would be favored by our other stockholders. The interests of Cadence Bancorp, LLC may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of our other stockholders. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of us or other strategic transactions involving us. In addition, Cadence Bancorp, LLC may seek to cause us to take courses of action that, in its judgment, could enhance its investment in us, but which might involve risks to our other stockholders or adversely affect us or our other stockholders. As a result, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline or stockholders might not receive a premium over the then-current market price of our common stock upon a change in control. In addition, this concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock because investors may perceive disadvantages in owning shares in a company with significant stockholders.. In addition, all of our directors and certain of our executive officers also serve as directors of Cadence Bancorp, LLC. All of our directors and certain of our executive officers also hold equity interests and/or incentive interests in Cadence Bancorp, LLC. Because of these overlapping interests, certain decisions concerning our operations or financial structure may present conflicts of interest amongst our directors and certain of our executive officers and their interests may conflict with yours.. We do not have control over when, if at all, Cadence Bancorp, LLC may decide to sell the shares of our Class A common stock that it beneficially owns.. Cadence Bancorp, LLC beneficially owns 65.6% of our outstanding Class A common stock. The timing of any further sales by Cadence Bancorp, LLC of shares of our Class A common stock or any other transaction in which Cadence Bancorp, LLC divests any part of its interest in us is unknown at this time and will be subject to the investment strategy and objectives of Cadence Bancorp, LLC and its members, market conditions and other considerations as well as a lock-up agreement by Cadence Bancorp, LLC in connection with the most recent offering. There can be no assurance of the time period over which any such further dispositions will occur or that they will occur at all. Any delay by Cadence Bancorp, LLC in completing, or uncertainty about its ability or intention to complete, the divestiture of our Class A common stock that it beneficially owns could have a material adverse effect on our company and the market price for our Class A common stock. In addition, in certain circumstances certain of our shares of our Class A common stock held by Cadence Bancorp, LLC may be converted into shares of our Class B non-voting common stock. This conversion would decrease the number of outstanding shares of our Class A common stock and, therefore,. 39. could result in a holder of our Class A common stock holding in excess of a prescribed regulatory thresholds. See \"Supervision and Regulation.\". Our controlling shareholder, Cadence Bancorp, LLC, is a bank holding company, and its failure to maintain adequate capital could have adverse consequences for us and for Cadence Bank.. The regulatory capital rules described in the risk factors \" - Regulatory initiatives regarding bank capital requirements may require heightened capital\" and \" - The Federal Reserve may require us to commit capital resources to support Cadence Bank\" above and under the heading \"Supervision and Regulation - Bank Holding Company Regulation - Rules on Regulatory Capital\" also apply to Cadence Bancorp, LLC, our controlling shareholder and a bank holding company. Substantially all of Cadence Bancorp, LLC's assets consist of its ownership of shares of the Company's common stock, and the Company is a non-depository institution consolidated subsidiary of Cadence Bancorp, LLC. Under the capital rules, capital of a banking organization's consolidated subsidiary that is held by third parties (\"minority interests\") is not included in the common equity Tier 1 capital of such banking organization on a consolidated basis unless the issuing subsidiary is a depository institution. Because they are not being issued by Cadence Bank, the shares of Class A common stock issued by us in our IPO and any other shares of our Class A common stock that we issue in the future, in previous offerings and in any future disposition, will not constitute common equity Tier 1 capital of Cadence Bancorp, LLC on a consolidated basis for purposes of these rules. Therefore, as any future offering and any such other transactions, we will have higher levels of common equity Tier 1 capital than Cadence Bancorp, LLC with respect to the same amount of consolidated risk weighted assets and consolidated assets and therefore higher common equity Tier 1 and other regulatory capital ratios than Cadence Bancorp, LLC. If we were to issue additional common stock in the future and Cadence Bancorp, LLC did not also issue additional Common Equity Tier 1 capital, or if Cadence Bancorp, LLC were to sell any additional shares of the Company's common stock owned by it, this divergence in Common Equity Tier 1 regulatory capital ratios could increase, including quite significantly in certain circumstances.. Additionally, on December 14, 2015, the Federal Reserve issued a final rule regarding bank holding companies with non-traditional capital structures, such as limited liability companies, which we refer to as LLCs. The rule provides generic examples of certain mechanics or provisions in organizing documents of bank holding companies with non-traditional capital structures, such as Cadence Bancorp, LLC, that may render membership interests (or other form of equity) ineligible as common equity Tier 1 capital. See \"Supervision and Regulation - Regulatory Capital.\" Bank holding companies had until July 1, 2016, to bring relevant capital instruments into compliance with the capital rules, including the guidance in the final rule noted above. Cadence Bancorp, LLC believes that its membership interests are consistent with the capital rules. It is possible that the Federal Reserve could engage in further rulemaking or provide additional guidance regarding the capital of non-traditional capital structures or Cadence Bancorp, LLC's membership interests specifically, including in connection with future acquisitions or transactions that require regulatory approval or review. Depending on the nature and extent of additional rulemaking or guidance from the Federal Reserve, if any, a portion of Cadence Bancorp, LLC's membership interests could fail to qualify as common equity Tier 1 capital, which, unless otherwise remedied, could have a material adverse effect on Cadence Bancorp, LLC's regulatory capital position and the ability of Cadence Bancorp, LLC or the Company to consummate future acquisitions or transactions.. For so long as Cadence Bancorp, LLC is treated as a bank holding company with respect to Cadence Bank and us, the Federal Reserve may take into account the regulatory capital levels of Cadence Bancorp, LLC in its supervision of us, including in determining whether to approve regulatory applications by us such as in connection with proposed acquisitions, which in certain circumstances could lead to limitations on our activities, including our ability to grow through acquisitions or organically. In addition, for so long as our assets are reflected, on a consolidated basis, in the regulatory capital ratios of Cadence Bancorp, LLC, we may face limitations on our growth or the composition of our balance sheet if growth in, or changes to the composition of, our balance sheet would result in Cadence Bancorp, LLC failing to satisfy applicable regulatory capital requirements, in particular if the divergence, discussed above, between the capital levels of Cadence Bancorp, LLC and the Company increase significantly.. In the event that Cadence Bancorp, LLC fails to maintain required regulatory capital ratios (whether as a result of rulemaking rendering equity ineligible or otherwise), including the ratio of common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets, the Federal Reserve could take supervisory actions against Cadence Bancorp, LLC that may also negatively affect us and Cadence Bank. Any such actions could significantly impact our return on equity, financial condition, operations, capital position, ability to pursue organic growth, ability to pay dividends, business opportunities and acquisitions, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Shares of our Class A common stock held by Cadence Bancorp, LLC may be converted into Class B non-voting common stock.. A percentage of the shares of our Class A common stock held by Cadence Bancorp, LLC, may be converted into shares of our Class B non-voting common stock. Each share of our Class A common stock owned by Cadence Bancorp, LLC will automatically convert into a share of Class B non-voting common stock upon a distribution or other transfer of shares to a member of Cadence Bancorp, LLC, or upon the liquidation of Cadence Bancorp, LLC, to the extent that such distribution, transfer or. 40. liquidation would otherwise result in such member of Cadence Bancorp, LLC, together with its affiliates, owning in excess of 9.9% of our Class A common stock (or any class of our voting securities), excluding for purposes of this calculation any reduction in ownership resulting from transfers by such holder of our voting securities. In addition, Cadence Bancorp, LLC has the right to cause shares of Class A common stock owned by it to convert into shares of Class B non-voting common stock to the extent that a distribution or other transfer to a member of Cadence Bancorp, LLC, or a liquidation of Cadence Bancorp, LLC, would otherwise result in shares of Class A common stock being received in respect of non-voting units of Cadence Bancorp, LLC. Such conversions would decrease the number of outstanding shares of our Class A common stock and, therefore, could result in a holder of our Class A common stock holding in excess of prescribed regulatory thresholds. See \"Supervision and Regulation.\". We are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of applicable stock exchange rules and, as a result, qualify for exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements.. Cadence Bancorp, LLC currently controls a majority of the voting power of our common stock. Under applicable stock exchange rules, a listed company of which more than 50% of the voting power for the election of directors is held by another person or group of persons acting together is a \"controlled company,\" and such a company may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including the requirement to have a majority of our board of directors be independent, to have an independent compensation committee with a written compensation committee charter meeting the requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (\"NYSE\") or to have an independent nominating committee with a written charter meeting the requirements of the NYSE.. We currently utilize some of these exemptions. Accordingly, our stockholders may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements. We do not know when Cadence Bancorp, LLC will cease to control a majority of the voting power of our common stock.. The market price of our Class A common stock could be negatively affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our Class A common stock in the public market, or the perception that large sales could occur, could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline or limit our future ability to raise capital through an offering of equity securities.. As of the date of this Annual Report, there were 83,625,000 shares of our Class A common stock outstanding. Approximately 65.6% of our outstanding Class A common stock is held by Cadence Bancorp, LLC and can be resold into the public markets in the future in accordance with the requirements of Rule 144 and the other shares of our Class A common stock are generally freely transferable.. Pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, Cadence Bancorp, LLC has the right, in certain circumstances, to require us to register their shares of our common stock under the Securities Act, including for sale into the public markets. Upon the effectiveness of such a registration statement, all shares covered by the registration statement will be freely transferable. In addition, if Cadence Bancorp, LLC distributes or otherwise transfers shares of our common stock to holders of its membership units, those unitholders would benefit from the registration rights under the Registration Rights Agreement. The shares of our Class A common stock held by those unitholders of Cadence Bancorp, LLC would then be able to be resold into the public markets in connection with the exercise of those registration rights or in accordance with the requirements of Rule 144 under the Securities Act, in each case after the expiration of the lockup period described below.. We and our executive officers, directors and Cadence Bancorp, LLC have agreed with the underwriters that, subject to certain exceptions, entered into with the underwriters in connection with the February 2018 offering, we and they will not directly or indirectly sell or otherwise transfer their shares for a period of 90 days after the completion of the offering.. The market price of our Class A common stock may decline significantly when the restrictions on resale by our existing stockholders lapse. A decline in the price of our Class A common stock might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional common stock or other equity securities.. Risks Relating to an Investment in Our Class A Common Stock. There is a limited public trading history for our Class A common stock. An active, liquid market for our Class A common stock may not be sustained, which may impair your ability to sell your shares.. Our shares of Class A common stock have only been listed on the NYSE since April 13, 2017. Prior to that date, our Class A common stock was not publicly traded. Cadence Bancorp, LLC currently holds 65.6% of the outstanding shares of our Class A. 41. common stock. An active, liquid trading market for our Class A common stock may not be sustained, including as a result of the number of shares held by Cadence Bancorp, LLC, the limited period of time which our shares have been publicly traded or other factors. Without an active, liquid trading market for our Class A common stock, stockholders may not be able to sell their shares at the volume, prices and times desired. Moreover, the lack of an established market could materially and adversely affect the value of our Class A common stock. Consequently, you may not be able to sell your Class A common stock at your desired price or at the time that you would like to sell. In addition, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline significantly due to actual or anticipated issuances or sales of our Class A common stock in the future, including by Cadence Bancorp, LLC and/or its unitholders. An inactive market may also impair our ability to raise capital by selling our Class A common stock and may impair our ability to expand our business by using our Class A common stock as consideration. In addition, there is a limited public trading history for our Class A common stock. As a result, the current market price may not be indicative of the price at which our Class A common stock will trade in the future.. The market price of our Class A common stock may be subject to substantial fluctuations, which may make it difficult for you to sell your shares at the volume, prices and times desired.. The market price of our Class A common stock may be highly volatile, which may make it difficult for you to sell your shares at the volume, prices and times desired. There are many factors that may impact the market price and trading volume of our Class A common stock, including, without limitation:. •  actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results, financial condition or asset quality;. •  changes in economic or business conditions;. •  failure to meet market predictions of our earnings;. •  the effects of, and changes in, trade, monetary and fiscal policies, including the interest rate policies of the Federal Reserve;. •  publication of research reports about us, our competitors, or the financial services industry generally, or changes in, or failure to meet, estimates made by securities analysts or ratings agencies of our financial and operating performance, or lack of research reports by industry analysts or ceasing of coverage;. •  operating and stock price performance of companies that investors deemed comparable to us;. •  future issuances of our Class A common stock or other securities;. •  additions or departures of key personnel;. •  proposed or adopted changes in laws, regulations or policies affecting us;. •  perceptions in the marketplace regarding our competitors and/or us;. •  our treatment as an \"emerging growth company\" under the federal securities laws;. •  changes in accounting principles, policies and guidelines;. •  rapidly changing technology;. •  significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving our competitors or us;. •  other economic, competitive, governmental, regulatory and technological factors affecting our operations, pricing, products and services; and. •  other news, announcements or disclosures (whether by us or others) related to us, our competitors, our markets or the financial services industry.. The stock market and, in particular, the market for financial institution stocks, have experienced substantial fluctuations in recent years, which in many cases have been unrelated to the operating performance and prospects of particular companies. In addition, significant fluctuations in the trading volume in our Class A common stock may cause significant price variations to occur. Increased market volatility may materially and adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock, which could make it difficult to sell your shares at the volume, prices and times desired.. 42. There are substantial regulatory limitations on changes of control of bank holding companies that may discourage investors from purchasing shares of our common stock.. With certain limited exceptions, federal regulations prohibit a person or company or a group of persons deemed to be \"acting in concert\" from, directly or indirectly, acquiring more than 10% (5% if the acquirer is a bank holding company) of any class of our voting stock or obtaining the ability to control in any manner the election of a majority of our directors or otherwise direct the management or policies of our company without prior notice or application to, and the approval of, the Federal Reserve. Companies investing in banks and bank holding companies receive additional review and may be required to become bank holding companies, subject to regulatory supervision. Accordingly, prospective investors must be aware of and comply with these requirements, if applicable, in connection with any purchase of shares of our common stock. These provisions could discourage third parties from seeking to acquire significant interests in us or in attempting to acquire control of us, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Securities analysts may not continue coverage on our Class A common stock, which could adversely affect the market for our Class A common stock.. The trading market for our Class A common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities analysts publish about us and our business. We do not have any control over these securities analysts, and they may not cover our Class A common stock. If securities analysts do not continue to cover our Class A common stock, the lack of research coverage may adversely affect our market price. If our Class A common stock is the subject of an unfavorable report, the price of our Class A common stock may decline. If one or more of these analysts cease to cover us or fail to publish regular reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause the price or trading volume of our Class A common stock to decline.. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting, insurance, compliance and other expenses. Any deficiencies in our financial reporting or internal controls could materially and adversely affect us, including resulting in material misstatements in our financial statements, and the market price of our Class A common stock.. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses. These costs and compliance with the rules of the SEC and the rules of the applicable stock exchange may further increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time consuming and costly. Beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our 2018 fiscal year, SEC rules will require that our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer periodically certify the existence and effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Beginning with the time we are no longer an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in the JOBS Act, which could occur as early as the end of the 2018 fiscal year, but no later than December 31, 2023, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to attest to our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. This process will require significant documentation of policies, procedures and systems, review of that documentation by our internal auditing and accounting staff and our outside independent registered public accounting firm, and testing of our internal control over financial reporting by our internal auditing and accounting staff and our outside independent registered public accounting firm. This process will involve considerable time and attention from management, which could prevent us from successfully implementing our business initiatives and improving our business, results of operations and financial condition, may strain our internal resources, and will increase our operating costs. We may experience higher than anticipated operating expenses and outside auditor fees during the implementation of these changes and thereafter.. During the course of our testing, we may identify deficiencies that would have to be remediated to satisfy the SEC rules for certification of our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is defined by the standards issued by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that results in a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a consequence, we would have to disclose in periodic reports we file with the SEC any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. The existence of a material weakness would preclude management from concluding that our internal control over financial reporting is effective and would preclude our independent auditors from attesting to our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting is effective. In addition, disclosures of deficiencies of this type in our SEC reports could cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting, may negatively affect the market price of our Class A common stock, and could result in the delisting of our securities from the securities exchanges on which they trade. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary to produce reliable financial reports and to prevent fraud. If we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting, it may materially and adversely affect us.. Material weaknesses in our financial reporting or internal controls could adversely affect our business.. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The identification of any material weakness could also result in investors losing. 43. confidence in our internal controls and questioning our reported financial information, which, among other things, could have a negative impact on the trading price of our Class A common stock. Additionally, we could become subject to increased regulatory scrutiny and a higher risk of stockholder litigation, which could result in significant additional expenses and require additional financial and management resources.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" and the reduced reporting and other requirements applicable to emerging growth companies may make our Class A common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the JOBS Act. For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of exemptions from various reporting and other requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, being permitted to have an extended transition period for adopting any new or revised accounting standards that may be issued by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board or the SEC, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a non-binding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We may take advantage of these and other exemptions until we are no longer an emerging growth company. We could be an emerging growth company until December 31, 2022, although we could lose that status sooner if our gross revenues exceed $1.07 billion, if we issue more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt in a three year period, or if the market value of our Class A common stock held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of any June 30 more than one year after our IPO, in which case we would no longer be an emerging growth company as of the following December 31. As a result, we could cease to be an \"emerging growth company\" as soon as the end of the 2018 fiscal year. We cannot predict if investors will find our Class A common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions, or if we choose to rely on additional exemptions in the future. If some investors find our Class A common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our Class A common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. Because we have elected to use the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards for an \"emerging growth company\" our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with these accounting standards as of the public company effective dates.. We have elected to use the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards under Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act. This election allows us to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards that have different effective dates for public and private companies until those standards apply to private companies. As a result of this election, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with these accounting standards as of the public company effective dates. Consequently, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with public company effective dates. Because our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with public company effective dates, investors may have difficulty evaluating or comparing our business, performance or prospects in comparison to other public companies, which may have a negative impact on the value and liquidity of our common stock. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we plan to rely on this exemption. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. Through December 31, 2017, we have not delayed the adoption of any new or revised accounting, nor do we plan to do so in the near future.. Future equity issuances could result in dilution, which could cause our Class A common stock price to decline and future sales of our Class A common stock could depress the market price of our Class A common stock.. As of the date of this Annual Report, we have 83,625,000 shares of Class A common stock issued and outstanding, and no issued and outstanding shares of our Class B non-voting common stock. Actual or anticipated issuances or sales of substantial amounts of our Class A common stock could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline significantly and make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and on terms that we deem appropriate. The issuance of any shares of our Class A common stock in the future also would, and equity-related securities could, dilute the percentage ownership interest held by stockholders prior to such issuance. We may issue all of these shares without any action or approval by our stockholders, and these shares, once issued (including upon exercise of outstanding options), will be available for sale into the public market, subject to the restrictions described below, if applicable, for affiliate holders.. Our future ability to pay dividends is subject to restrictions.. We currently conduct substantially all of our operations through our subsidiaries, and a significant part of our income is attributable to dividends from the Bank and we principally rely on the profitability of the Bank to conduct operations and satisfy obligations. Our principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common and preferred stock and service any of our obligations are dividends received directly from our subsidiaries, including Cadence Bank and Cadence Insurance. As is the case with all. 44. financial institutions, the profitability of the Bank is subject to the fluctuating cost and availability of money, changes in interest rates, and in economic conditions in general. In addition, various federal and state statutes and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to us, with or without regulatory approval.. Holders of our Class A common stock are entitled to receive only such cash dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Any declaration and payment of dividends on Class A common stock will depend upon our earnings and financial condition, liquidity and capital requirements, the general economic and regulatory climate, our ability to service any equity or debt obligations senior to the Class A common stock, and other factors deemed relevant by the board of directors. Furthermore, consistent with our business plans, growth initiatives, capital availability, projected liquidity needs, and other factors, we have made, and will continue to make, capital management decisions and policies that could adversely impact the amount of dividends, if any, paid to our common stockholders.. On January 24, 2018, our board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.125 per share of outstanding Class A common stock, payable on March 20, 2018 to stockholders of record on the close of business on March 1, 2018. Although we currently expect to continue to pay quarterly dividends, any future determination relating to our dividend policy will be made by our board of directors and will depend on a number of factors. We are subject to certain restrictions on the payment of cash dividends as a result of banking laws, regulations and policies. Finally, our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders depends on our receipt of dividends from the Bank, which is also subject to restrictions on dividends as a result of banking laws, regulations and policies. See \"Dividend Policy.\". Our corporate governance documents, and certain corporate and banking laws applicable to us, could make a takeover more difficult, thereby depressing the trading price of our Class A Common Stock.. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws, and corporate and federal banking laws, could delay, defer, or prevent a third party from acquiring control of our organization or conduct a proxy contest, even if those events were perceived by many of our stockholders as beneficial to their interests. These provisions and the corporate and banking laws and regulations applicable to us:. •  enable our board of directors to issue additional shares of authorized, but unissued capital stock;. •  enable our board of directors to issue \"blank check\" preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by the board;. •  enable our board of directors to increase the size of the board and fill the vacancies created by the increase;. •  enable our board of directors to serve for three year terms;. •  may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us for a certain period of time;. •  provide for a plurality voting standard in the election of directors;. •  do not provide for cumulative voting in the election of directors;. •  enable our board of directors to amend our bylaws without stockholder approval;. •  do not allow for the removal of directors without cause;. •  limit the right of stockholders to call a special meeting;. •  do not allow stockholder action by less than unanimous written consent if less than 50.1% of our outstanding Class A common stock is owned by Cadence Bancorp, LLC;. •  require advance notice for director nominations and other stockholder proposals; and. •  require prior regulatory application and approval of any transaction involving control of our organization.. These provisions may discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control, including under circumstances in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium over the market price of our shares. In addition, Cadence Bancorp, LLC currently owns shares sufficient for the majority vote over all matters requiring a stockholder vote, which may delay, deter or prevent acts that would be favored by our other stockholders. See \" - Cadence Bancorp, LLC holds approximately 65.6% of the voting power of our common stock and effectively controls our management and affairs. This will prevent you and other minority stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions and may result in conflicts of interest.\". 45. An investment in our Class A common stock is not an insured deposit and is subject to risk of loss.. Your investment in our Class A common stock will not be a bank deposit and will not be insured or guaranteed by the FDIC or any other government agency. Your investment will be subject to investment risk, and you must be capable of affording the loss of your entire investment.. The return on your investment in our common stock is uncertain.. An investor in our Class A common stock may not realize a substantial return on his or her investment, or may not realize any return at all. Further, as a result of the uncertainty and risks associated with our operations, many of which are described in this \"Risk Factors\" section, it is possible that an investor could lose his or her entire investment."
