[1] "ITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS. This Report contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.  These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the risk factors set forth below, and this Report should be read in conjunction with such risk factors.  The risks and uncertainties described in this Report are not the only ones we face.  Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also affect our business.  If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, our financial condition and results of operations.. Risks related to our business. Our results of operations are subject to significant quarterly and other fluctuations due to a number of factors that could adversely affect our business and, as a result, the trading price of our common stock.. Our revenue and operating results may fluctuate from period to period and are likely to continue to fluctuate due to a variety of factors, some beyond our control.  Factors relating to our business and its operations that may contribute to these fluctuations include the following:. • Seasonality of our revenue, including shifts in the timing and length of holiday selling seasons;. • Macroeconomic cycles and consumer discretionary spending;. • Demand for our user-designed products and services and the growth rate of the print-on-demand and e-commerce industry overall;. • Fluctuations in sales and marketing costs, including website traffic acquisition costs and our ability to maintain or increase such traffic cost-effectively;. • Market acceptance and competitiveness of our products and services on quality and pricing, and current competitors and new competitive entrants to the market for customized goods in our channels of distribution and marketing;. • The gain, loss, success, or delay of significant strategic relationships and partner programs;. 8. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. • The development of, or changes to, new technologies and platforms for Internet use, such as mobile, and evolving marketing methods such as social media, flash promotions and any changes in website traffic acquisition algorithms, policies or practices supporting such development;. • Conversion rates of website traffic, including the impact on conversion rates from increased traffic from mobile devices as compared to desktops or tablets;. • Our ability to provide accurate search results and recommendations and to deliver long-tail content to our e-commerce partners;. • Litigation and associated risks and expenses, including extraordinary expenses related to litigation and settlement costs;. • Concerns about the data security of consumer personal information run through our e-commerce services and their vulnerability to attack and intrusions;. • Any production issues which may in turn result in delayed orders or increased costs; and. • Fluctuations in the cost of raw materials and inventory.. As a result of these and other factors, the results of any prior quarterly or annual periods should not be relied upon as indications of our future revenue or operating performance.  In particular, due to the seasonality of our business, our revenue in the first three quarters of each year are generally substantially lower than our revenue in the fourth quarter of the preceding year, and we expect this trend to continue for the foreseeable future.. We may not achieve or sustain profitability or avoid net losses in the future.  Our growth rates in the future, if any, may fluctuate or not be sustainable or may decrease.  In addition, in order to be profitable in the foreseeable future, we must control our costs and operating expenses and achieve adequate pricing or scale in a highly competitive environment.  We have incurred in the past, and expect to continue to incur in future periods, stock-based compensation expense, which will reduce our net income and may result in future losses.  If we fail to increase revenue at the rate we anticipate or if our costs and operating expenses increase without a commensurate increase in our revenue, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be negatively affected.. If we are not profitable in the future, we may be unable to continue our operations.. Although we recorded net income for the year ended December 31, 2015, we have otherwise incurred operating losses each year since we went public in 2012.  If and when we achieve profitability depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to execute on our strategy and grow our business.  We cannot assure our investors that we will ever achieve profitability. If we are not profitable in the future, we may be unable to continue our operations.. If our recently announced internal cost reduction initiatives do not have the intended effects, we could experience increased volatility in our stock price and our results of operations could suffer.. As part of a cost reduction initiative that will be implemented during 2018, we reduced our workforce by 5%.  We expect this cost reduction will allow us to gain financial efficiencies, however we may not be able to realize the full amount of the estimated savings from the cost reduction program, in a timely manner, or at all.  This cost reduction will make it more difficult to predict our financial performance, which could cause increased volatility in our stock price.  In addition, we could face challenges in retaining personnel, business disruption or decreased productivity as a result of this cost reduction, and our results of operations could suffer.. We depend heavily on the continued success of our core business of selling user-designed products on CafePress.com, and any event that adversely affects our sales of user-designed products could harm our business and results of operations.. A significant proportion of our revenue is derived from the online sale of user-designed products through CafePress.com and through distribution channels derived therefrom.  As a result, the continued performance of CafePress.com is dependent on continued flow of user-generated content into the creation of products.  We expect that the sales of user-generated design products will continue to comprise a majority of the revenue of our business.  Our users rarely exclusively use our e-commerce platform to sell their designs.  Users who design products may choose not to use our e-commerce platform to create and sell their designs, and choose other platforms, thereby reducing the number of designs available through our websites and thus affecting future growth of our revenue generated from CafePress.com.  Customers who purchase user-designed products on our websites may also purchase other fulfillment and partner products through our e-commerce services as well, which aid the growth of our services. Our tools and platform offerings may not remain competitive with those of our competitors.  If competitive services increase and/or we cannot successfully attract or retain users to design and sell products through our e-commerce platform or if we are unable to attract and retain our customers for user-designed and other products, our operating results may suffer.  If we are unable to grow. 9. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. our core business or otherwise grow the core business through the additional e-commerce services noted, our business and our operating results could be harmed.. The seasonality of our business increases strain on our operations and if we are unable to scale sufficiently to support our operations during periods of peak demand, our business could suffer.. A significant portion of our net revenue and operating cash flows have historically been realized during the period from November through December each year, primarily due to increased retail activity during the holiday seasons.  Disruption in our ability to process, produce and fulfill customer orders in the fourth quarter could have a negative effect on our quarterly and annual operating results.  As described in Item 7. \"Management's Discussion & Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" in anticipation of increased fourth quarter sales activity, we typically incur significant incremental expenses prior to and during peak selling seasons, particularly October through December, including the costs associated with hiring a substantial number of temporary employees to supplement our existing workforce.  If we are unable to hire enough qualified employees to support our production or customer service operations or if there is a disruption in the labor we hire from our third-party providers, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.  In addition, if too many customers access our websites within a short period of time due to increased holiday demand or other periods of peak demand, we may experience system delays or interruptions that make our websites unavailable or prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume of goods we sell and the attractiveness of our products and services. This issue in turn could harm our business, operating results and reputation.  Any disruption in our business operations or other factors that could lead to a material shortfall compared to our expectations for the fourth quarter could then result in a material shortfall compared to our expectations for the full year, have a disproportionate effect on our operating results and cause our stock price to decline.. Intense competitive pressures, particularly failure to meet consumers' price expectations, may harm our business and results of operations.. Demand for our products and services may be impacted by consumer price sensitivity.  Many external factors, including our production and personnel costs, the cost of raw materials, particularly the price of cotton, content selection or consumer sentiment or spending, available product mix and our competitors' pricing and marketing strategies, can significantly impact our pricing strategies.  If we fail to meet consumers' price expectations, we could lose customers or fail to attract new customers, which would harm our business and results of operations.. Changes in our pricing strategies across channels have had, and may continue to have, a significant impact on our revenue and net income.  We frequently make changes to our pricing structure in order to remain competitive, but that may result in lower profit margins.  Most of our products are also offered by our competitors.  In particular, competitive offerings in apparel have put pressure on pricing and increasingly impacted sales performance in that product category.  If in the future, we significantly reduce prices on our products without a corresponding increase in volume or decrease in cost of goods sold, or raise prices without maintaining the volume of goods sold, our pricing strategies could negatively impact our revenue and could adversely affect our gross margins and overall profitability.. We generate a portion of our revenue from the fees we collect from shipping our products.  We frequently offer discounted or free shipping, with minimum purchase requirements during promotional periods, to attract and retain customers.  We also frequently offer coupons, promotional marketing giveaways and free or discounted products and services as a method to attract and retain customers, and such instances are generally unable to recoup shipping costs in such programs.  In the future, if we continue to increase these coupon practices and discounted shipping offers to attract and retain customers and/or in response to actions taken by our competitors, our results of operations may be harmed.. We face intense competition and if we do not compete successfully against existing and new competitors, we may lose market share and customers.. The market for customized products and services is large, fragmented and intensely competitive and we expect competition to continue to increase in the future.  Demand for customized products has increased, but so have competitive offerings in all of our product categories.  We face competition from a wide range of companies, including the following:. • Small traditional offline printing businesses;. • E-commerce companies, including large online retailers such as Amazon.com, Inc., Walmart.com, Target and eBay Inc. (who may also serve as our distribution partners);. 10. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. • Online providers of customized products such as Custom Ink LLC, RedBubble, Inc., Spreadshirt, Inc., Teespring,  or Zazzle Inc. and online providers of distinctive goods like Etsy, Inc. or Uncommon Goods LLC;. • Online providers allowing users to customize goods in specific vertical markets, such as Cimpress N.V. for small businesses and Shutterfly, Inc., for photographic products;. • Physical and catalog retailers of personalized merchandise such as Red Envelope and Things Remembered; and. • Small, but numerous, online providers who address niche customization service and product offerings, enabled by advances in digital printing.. We also indirectly compete with Internet portals and shopping search engines that are involved in e-commerce or sell products or services either directly or in collaboration with other retailers.  If more companies move into the customized products space, we will face further direct competition.  Our reliance on Internet search engines and other sources of Internet and referral traffic to our e-commerce sites, such as Google, Bing and Facebook, impacts both the way we do business and our performance against competitors.  Changes to their practices could drive traffic to our competitors and away from our e-commerce sites in ways we may not anticipate or that will cause us to expend further resources to successfully compete.  The shift to mobile site access for e-commerce sites also presents challenges for us as we cope with shifting traffic patterns.  Some of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than us, including significant brand recognition, sales volume and customer bases.  In addition, other online retailers may be acquired by, receive investment from or enter into strategic relationships with well-established and well-financed companies or investors which would strengthen their competitive positions.. Some of our competitors may be able to secure licensing deals, goods and raw materials from suppliers on more favorable terms, devote greater resources to marketing activities and promotional campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote substantially more resources to website and system development than us. Increased competition may reduce our operating margins, market share and brand recognition, or force us to incur losses.  We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Competitive pressures may harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business depends heavily on the market recognition and reputation of our services, and any harm to our brand or failure to maintain and enhance our brand recognition may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We believe that maintaining and enhancing the recognition and reputation of the level of services associated with our brand is critical to our success and ability to compete.  Many factors, some of which are beyond our control, are important to maintaining and enhancing our services and may negatively impact our reputation if not properly managed, such as:. • Our ability to maintain a convenient and reliable user experience as consumer preferences evolve for varying multi-channel experiences;. • Our ability to increase brand awareness among existing and potential strategic distribution channels, corporate partners and consumers through various means of marketing and promotional activities;. • Our ability to retain and expand our network of buyers and sellers through developing Internet communication methods, such as mobile platforms and social media channels;. • The efficiency, reliability and quality of our products, services and retail website experiences; and. • Our ability to protect personally identifiable information and credit card data and perceived weaknesses in data privacy or security practices or product quality problems of our service or other e-commerce websites.. If we are unable to maintain our reputation, further enhance our brand recognition and increase positive awareness of our websites, our results of operations and business may suffer.. 11. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. If we are unable to attract customers or increase Internet traffic to our websites and manage changes in the manner by which customers access our websites in a cost-effective manner or at all, our business and results of operations could be harmed.. Our success depends on our ability to attract customers to our websites.  We rely on a variety of methods to draw visitors to our websites and promote our products and services, such as Internet search engine marketing, email marketing, affiliate networks, social media outlets and flash deal promotions through various new types of group and socially curated e-commerce websites.  We pay providers of online services, search engines and other websites and e-commerce businesses to provide content, marketing links, advertising banners and other links that direct customers to our websites.  If these providers modify or terminate their relationship with us or increase the price they charge us or if our competitors offer them greater fees for traffic, our expenses could rise and traffic to our websites could decrease, which in turn would harm our revenue and results of operations.. We also devote substantial resources to optimizing our websites to increase the likelihood of our products and services appearing in unpaid search engine results; however, there can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful.  If our products and services receive low placement or do not appear within the listings of search engine results in response to relevant search queries, this could result in fewer customers clicking through to our websites, requiring us to resort to other more costly resources to replace this traffic.  Search engines including Google, Yahoo! and Bing frequently refine and modify their search algorithms that determine placement of our relevant search queries.  During 2017, our results were adversely impacted by changes in search engine algorithms that had a negative impact on our search visibility and traffic on our websites.  If we are unable to maintain or increase traffic to our websites, including through accurate search results and recommendations, our products or services receive low placement or do not appear due to changes in search engine algorithms, such changes could negatively impact the effectiveness of our search engine optimization or search engine marketing, and our business and financial performance would be adversely affected, potentially very materially.  If our conversion rates decline, whether due to increased traffic from mobile devices or otherwise, our business and operating results could suffer.. We also promote our products and special offers through emails targeted to potential customers and our site members.  However, if our customers deem such emails and other promotions to be intrusive, we could be forced to discontinue or significantly curtail our email marketing activities.. We continue to develop ways to optimize the consumer experience on our websites, products and services through mobile devices, which provide particular challenges given the graphics intensive user experience involved in shopping, creating and selling content based products online.  If we are not able to successfully translate our websites for mobile use and traffic from mobile devices continues to accelerate at current rates, our results of operations may be impacted.. Lastly, we have terminated a number of affiliate marketing partners in states that have imposed sales tax nexus for such marketing activities, and to the extent we determine it prudent to continue to do so, we may be unable to achieve our strategic goals in those channels.  If we are unable to develop or maintain an effective and cost efficient means of reaching content providers and consumers, if the costs of attracting customers using these methods significantly increase, or if we are unable to develop new cost-effective means to obtain customers, then our ability to attract new and repeat customers would be harmed, traffic to our websites would be reduced and our business and results of operations would be harmed.. Our strategy with respect to content acquisition may adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results.. We obtain content for our websites and our products from multiple sources, including our user designers, to whom we may pay fees on any subsequent sales of products created with such content.  We also rely on entertainment, publishing and corporate content provider sources to generate content for our products and services.  Due to designer relationship issues, including compensation provided by us compared to that provided by our competitors, users may decrease or cease providing content to our websites in the future.  We face challenges in managing the payment infrastructure and taxation implications of these transactions and expect to continue to do so in the future as competitive pressures or new regulatory or other issues arise.. In connection with obtaining entertainment and other media content, we sometimes enter into multi-year, royalty-based licenses with content owners and production organizations for film and television and other media distributors.  Our competitors may be successful in obtaining exclusive licenses for content we wish to obtain for our site, making such content unavailable to us now or in the future.  We may also, as we have in the past, enter into agreements with content providers that contain exclusivity provisions that may restrict our ability to sell certain products or in certain geographies or to partner with certain content providers.  In order to compete effectively for these licenses, we could be forced to pay higher royalties or agree to significant advance payments.  Our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of these content licensing payment commitments in the event that sales or revenue growth do not meet our expectations.  In addition, our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the market segments in which we operate could be limited.. 12. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. In connection with the selection and popularity of specific content, we employ licensing and business development professionals and Internet traffic analysts who evaluate popular culture trends and potential properties to support the content on our site and drive traffic to our websites.  To the extent they are unsuccessful in identifying or obtaining content sources that will be popular with consumers and that will generate sales of our products, our results could be materially harmed.  To the extent the content we do choose to obtain proves unpopular or unsuccessful and we have agreed to contractual minimums, we may not achieve the planned return on royalty advances and may incur losses or impairment charges.. If any of the above circumstances increase the cost of obtaining content, our margins may suffer.. If we are unable to market and sell products and services beyond our existing target markets and develop new products and services to attract new customers and new strategic partnerships and business relationships, our results of operations may suffer.. We believe we will need to address additional markets and sales channels, and attract new business partners, content providers and consumers to grow our business.  To access new sales channels, we must build and maintain new processes in which to feed our product catalogues to corporate distribution partners.  To access new markets and consumers, we will need to develop, market and sell new products and services.  There is no guarantee we will be successful in this expansion.  We continually seek to offer our array of e-commerce customization and products and services to new customers in existing channels and to expand the reach of our distribution channel partnerships.  If we are unsuccessful in expanding the scope of those relationships, we may not grow our operations and businesses as fast as we would like.. Any failure to develop new products and services, or a lack of adoption of the new products and services we do develop to expand our business beyond our existing target markets or to address additional market opportunities could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As we continue to expand our new strategic and sales channel partnerships, our dependence on third parties for the generation of significant revenue growth increases.  Partners may make changes to their technology or product road maps or choose to enter the customization business themselves and we thus may have little control over those strategic choices.. If we are unable to manage scale or growth of our business or to execute our strategies effectively, our business and prospects may be materially and adversely affected.. We anticipate that we will need to continue to implement new and upgraded operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, including the improvement of our accounting, legal and other internal management and control systems.  We will need to continue to recruit, train, manage and motivate our workforce and manage our relationships with existing and new business partners, suppliers, third-party service providers and content providers.  Our strategies also include streamlining our product and service offerings, which will require us to work with different groups of suppliers and address the needs of different kinds of consumers.  All of these endeavors involve risks and require substantial management effort and significant additional expenditures.  We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage our growth or execute our strategies effectively, and any failure to do so may have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects, as well as our operating results.. Our business may be adversely affected by transitions in our senior management team or by our inability to effectively handle any future succession planning.. We are highly dependent on the executive leadership of members of our senior management and key employees as our success depends, in large part, on their continued contributions and strategic vision.  In addition, we have not entered into long-term employment agreements or non-compete agreements with members of our senior management team.  Our employees can terminate their employment with us at any time.  The loss of members of our senior management team or key personnel could harm our ability to implement our business strategy and respond to the rapidly changing market conditions in which we operate.. If we are unable to attract, train, integrate and retain qualified personnel with relevant corporate, industry and operational expertise, we may be unable to effectively execute our business plan or maintain or, in the future, expand our operations, which in turn would harm our business.. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to retain key managers or employees and to identify, hire and retain additional personnel to support our business and its growth.  Our finance, legal and engineering staff are key to the maintenance of our compliance and public company status.  Our retail e-commerce sites depend on the sales and marketing talent of our retail operations staff.  Our production facilities also depend on skilled personnel trained in our proprietary printing and production techniques and. 13. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. others knowledgeable about back end operations of the online retail industry.  Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, train, integrate and retain qualified personnel with relevant experience and skill sets.  Recruiting and retaining capable personnel, particularly those with expertise in the retail, e-commerce and printing industries, is vital to our success.  If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel for each of our e-commerce sites, our business may suffer.. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of future acquisitions, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and prospects.. We have previously engaged in acquisition opportunities, including businesses of which we have subsequently divested.  We may be unable to successfully integrate any businesses that we may acquire in the future or may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions.  The successful integration of any acquired business as well as the retention of personnel require significant attention from our management and could divert resources from our existing business, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business operations.  Acquired assets or businesses may not achieve the anticipated benefits we expect due to a number of factors including: unanticipated costs or liabilities associated with the acquisition, incurrence of acquisition-related costs, harm to our relationships with existing customers as a result of the acquisition, harm to our brand and reputation, the loss of key employees in the acquired businesses, use of resources that are needed in other parts of our business, and use of substantial portions of our available cash to consummate the acquisition.  In addition, our ability to impose appropriate internal controls, including accurate forecasting, accounting integration of inventory, costs and reporting, to successfully manage these businesses requires significant investments of resources and management time.  Finally, acquisitions could result in the use of substantial amounts of cash, earn-outs, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the occurrence of significant goodwill impairment charges, amortization expenses for other intangible assets and exposure to potential unknown liabilities of the acquired business.  In some of our prior acquisitions, earn-out targets were not achieved and in some instances either disputes occurred or modifications were made.  We may enter into other modifications or settlements of certain acquisition terms over time which could result in cash payments, potentially dilutive issuances, goodwill impairment charges and other potential unknown liabilities.  Failure to realize the anticipated benefits of our divestitures, or of any prior or future acquisitions, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and prospects.. If we fail to successfully identify and respond to constantly changing consumer preferences, adopt new technologies or adapt our websites and systems to customer requirements or emerging industry standards, our business, prospects and financial results may be materially and adversely affected.. The e-commerce and retail industries as well as the content-provider industry are subject to ever changing trends and consumer preferences.  Consequently, we must anticipate emerging consumer trends for customized retail merchandise that will appeal to existing and potential consumers both with base products and licensed and user-generated content.  If our consumers cannot find their desired products on or service through our websites, our customers may stop visiting our websites, visit less often or stop purchasing products on our websites or seek out our competitors' services.  If we do not anticipate, identify and respond effectively to consumer preferences and changes in consumer trends at an early stage, we may not be able to generate the desired level of sales.  Likewise, we must anticipate and capitalize on trends in user-generated content and popular culture that will continue to drive consumer interest in our websites.. Internet business models and the online content distribution generally are characterized by rapid technological evolution, changes in user requirements and preferences, frequent introductions of new products and services embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices.  To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality and features of our websites and systems.  Such systems include complex interactions of our proprietary software tools, such as designer and builder software and content review tools, data storage and reporting, order management and plant printing automation software.  Like all systems, failures or errors made in the maintenance or operation of those systems could lead to operational and logistics challenges or lost, cancelled or delayed orders, which in turn could lead customers to make alternative choices in a provider of custom goods.  The development of our websites and other proprietary technology entails significant technical and business risks.  We may be unable to use new technologies or systems to effectively adapt our websites, proprietary technologies and transaction-processing systems to customer requirements or emerging industry standards.  If we are unable to adapt in a cost-effective and timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, whether for technical, legal, financial or other reasons, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected.. If we are unable to successfully address the rapidly evolving market for transactions on mobile devices, our results of operations may suffer.. 14. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Mobile devices are increasingly used for e-commerce transactions.  A significant and growing portion of our users access our platforms through mobile devices.  We may lose users if we are not able to continue to meet our users' mobile and multi-screen experience expectations.  The variety of technical and other configurations across different mobile devices and platforms increases the challenges associated with this environment. In addition, a number of other companies with significant resources and a number of innovative startups have introduced products and services focusing on mobile markets.. Our ability to successfully address the challenges posed by the rapidly evolving market for mobile transactions is crucial to our continued success, and any failure to continuously increase the volume of mobile transactions effected through our platforms could harm our business.. Our business model focuses on user-generated content and as a result, controversial political and social expressions appear on our site that may impact our brand name or with which current or potential customers or business partners may not wish to be associated.. We have built our business by providing consumers an outlet for self-expression through unique or customized goods that they can share with their friends, their communities and the world.  Our service is often used for the expression of political and cause-related issues that may generate strong opinions on many sides of a given issue, including in other customers and potentially with the business partners who supply us with content or inventory and to those who choose to invest in our company.  As a result, our websites frequently attract the attention of media outlets that may not understand the user-generated nature of our business model and attribute sentiments expressed by our users to our company or its management team.  Additionally, because our service provides a platform for the expression of controversial ideas and humor, our site could be the target of negative social media or petition campaigns, computer attacks or boycotts by well-organized special interest groups or filtered by foreign countries, which may adversely impact our growth and operations.  Our distribution and channel partners may likewise become uncomfortable with aspects of our user-generated content business model in light of their own content usage policies and may cut back or refuse to display our products or otherwise limit our merchandising opportunities thus impacting our results of operations.  We believe we must maintain a balance among the encouragement of self-expression in our users that creates a content-rich experience, the needs and concerns of our business partners and our mutual desire to protect our brand and our companies.  If we fail to maintain this balance and lose partners, customers, or potential customers due to judgments made about the content on our websites, or conversely if we alienate corporate partners or businesses who wish to employ our customization services for their content or products without fear of negative reflection on their brand images, we risk damage to our brand and reputation and ultimately our business and results of operations.. Because our sales and revenue rely on consumer spending of discretionary income, uncertain macroeconomic conditions in the United States and world economies may materially and adversely affect our financial results.. The majority of our revenue is generated from sales through our consumer e-commerce websites and our customized products are largely found in categories of consumer goods that would be deemed non-essentials.  As a result, our sales are driven largely by discretionary consumer spending habits and preferences.  Historically, consumer purchasing on discretionary items declines during economic downturns and periods of uncertainty regarding future economic prospects or when disposable income or consumer lending is lower.  While not always directly related to actual consumer behavior, macro-economic conditions such as global currency and debt concerns, stock market volatility, levels of unemployment, increased fuel or commodity prices and transportation costs, and conditions in the commercial consumer lending and housing markets, among other factors, fuel uncertainty over future macro-economic conditions and prospects of a prolonged recessionary spending climate.  Many other factors contribute to economic conditions in the U.S., including taxation and distribution concerns.  Deterioration of macroeconomic conditions in the near term or long term, or the perception that such deterioration might occur, could reduce demand for our products either temporarily or in the long term.  Our revenue could likewise decline and our results could be materially and adversely affected by such trends.  Our ability to anticipate, identify and respond quickly to consumer spending pressures and prevailing economic conditions will be challenged if such economic uncertainties continue or particularly during peak periods for our sales that historically have occurred in our fiscal fourth quarter.. The proper functioning of our websites is essential to our business and any failure to maintain the satisfactory performance, security and integrity of our websites will materially and adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations.. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our websites, our marketing activities, our transaction-processing systems and our network infrastructure are critical to our success.  Our revenue depends on the number of visitors who shop on our websites and the volume of orders we fulfill.  Any system delays, interruptions or disruptions to our servers caused by telecommunications failures, computer viruses, physical break-ins, domain attacks, hacking or other attempts to harm our systems. 15. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. or servers that result in the unavailability or slowdown of our websites, loss of data or reduced order fulfillment performance would reduce the volume of products sold and the attractiveness of product offerings on our websites.  We may also experience interruptions caused by reasons beyond our control.. We use internally developed systems for all aspects of transaction processing, including order management, content review and purchasing and inventory management.  We rely on third-party providers for debit card and credit card processing services, other payment services and shipping.  We periodically upgrade and expand our systems, and in the future, we intend to further upgrade and expand our systems and to integrate newly developed or purchased software with our existing systems to support increased transaction volume.  Any inability to add additional software and hardware or to develop and upgrade our existing technology, transaction-processing systems or network infrastructure to accommodate increased traffic on our websites or increased sales volume through our transaction-processing systems may cause unanticipated system disruptions, slower response time, degradation in levels of customer service and impaired quality and speed of order fulfillment, which would cause our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations to suffer.. If our production and fulfillment operations are interrupted for any significant period of time or either facility where our computer and communications software or hardware is located fails, our business and results of operations would be substantially harmed.. Our success depends on our ability to successfully receive, produce and fulfill orders and to promptly and securely deliver our products to our customers, which in turn depends in part on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems.  Our production, inventory management, packaging, labeling and shipping processes are performed in a single production and fulfillment center located in Louisville, Kentucky and such single location reliance presents risks.  In addition, substantially all of the computer hardware necessary to operate our principal websites is located at third-party hosting facilities in Las Vegas, Nevada and hosted through Amazon AWS.  These facilities are susceptible to damage or interruption from human error, fire, flood, ice storms, power loss, insufficient power availability, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, acts of war, break-ins, earthquakes and similar events.  In addition, Louisville, Kentucky, our production site, is particularly susceptible to flooding and extreme weather patterns.  Our production operations are dependent on order management and other automation software systems that may be especially subject to human error in programming.. Any catastrophic loss to our facility would likely disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in significant expenses to repair or replace the facility.  Our business interruption insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur, which is not covered under our current policy.  Any interruptions in our production, fulfillment center or systems operations, particularly for any significant period of time, could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations.. Shipment of merchandise sold on CafePress.com or through our Retail Partner Channel could be delayed or disrupted by factors beyond our control and we could lose buyers and sellers.. We largely rely upon third-party carriers such as Federal Express, Inc., or FedEx, and United Parcel Service, or UPS, for timely delivery of our merchandise shipments, particularly in the United States where the majority of our sales occur.  As a result, we are subject to carrier disruptions and increased costs due to factors that are beyond our control, including labor difficulties, inclement weather, terrorist activity and increased fuel costs.  We do not have a long-term agreement with any other third-party carriers, and we cannot be sure that our relationships with FedEx or UPS will continue on terms favorable to us, if at all. If our shipping relationships are terminated or impaired or if our carriers are unable to deliver merchandise for us, we would be required to use alternative carriers for the shipment of products to our buyers.  We may be unable to engage alternative carriers on a timely basis or on terms favorable to us, if at all.  Potential adverse consequences include:. • Reduced visibility of integrated order status and package tracking;. • Delays in merchandise receipt and delivery;. • Increased cost of shipment; and. • Reduced shipment quality, which may result in damaged merchandise.. Any failure to receive merchandise at our distribution centers or deliver products to our buyers in a timely and accurate manner could lead to client dissatisfaction and cause us to lose sellers and buyers.. Many of our suppliers are located in regions that are subject to weather instability, earthquakes and other natural disasters.. 16. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. The facilities of our third-party suppliers are subject to risk of catastrophic loss due to fire, flood or other natural or man-made disasters.  The majority of our suppliers are located in the United States and China in areas with above-average catastrophic weather instability and seismic activity and which are subject to typhoons, tsunamis and other natural disasters.  Additionally, since a significant portion of our revenue is attributed to cotton apparel and because we do not currently engage in any cotton or other commodity-related hedging activities, we are particularly susceptible to issues affecting the cotton growing and production industry. Any catastrophic loss to any of these facilities or disruptions in the production of cotton would likely disrupt our operations, delay production and shipments, and result in a delay or loss of revenue or cause us to incur significant expenses to repair or replace the facility or to purchase critical inventory for creation of our products.. We face risks such as unforeseen costs and potential liability in connection with content we acquire, produce, print, license and/or distribute through our service.. As an Internet service provider that prints content provided by others, we face allegations related to, and potential liability for, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or other claims related to the goods created from user-generated uploads to our service.  Intellectual property law for secondary liability for copyright infringement is particularly uncertain in many jurisdictions. We also may face allegations related to, and potential liability for, content uploaded from our users in connection with claims of defamation, racism, hate speech, obscenity or pornography that may be embodied in user expression.  As globally available websites, we also receive inquiries about content that may be illegal or insensitive to cultural norms not only in the United States but worldwide, and those sensitivities may differ widely.. As we expand and start to create more internally generated content and/or designs, and do more than just print content by others on products through our service, if we do not anticipate costs or mitigate risk, or if we become liable for content we produce, the litigation to defend against claims could be costly and expenses and damages arising from liability could harm our results of operations.. Despite our status as a service provider and not a publisher, we also face allegations of infringement and potential liability for negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement or other claims based on the nature and content of materials that we distribute.  In addition, a number of our entertainment, publishing and corporate content providers impose limitations and conditions on our use of their licensed content, and our failure to implement and abide by these terms could result in our loss of these licenses, damages to our reputation and potential liability for breach of contract and copyright or trademark infringement.  In particular, any legislative developments or litigation outcomes in copyright law under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act that negatively impact our protections from liability for infringement could have consequences for us in our operations and increase litigation costs for the defense of any litigation that might arise due to such changes or developments.. We maintain strict content usage policies that are frequently evaluated and updated and we maintain processes that review uploaded content for compliance with our terms of service and other policies.  We also require users uploading content to attest that they have all necessary rights to upload content to our service and further require such users to indemnify us in the event that claims are made against us relating to such content.  We maintain a content review process that includes evaluation and take-down of uploaded content on our site that fails to meet our policies and compliance with all safe harbors under relevant laws.  Nevertheless, we receive significant volumes of cease and desist demands on a regular basis with respect to claims of intellectual property infringement and violation of the rights of third parties, such as rights of privacy and publicity, and expect this may grow with the volume of content made available through our service.  We maintain an active dispute resolution process for intellectual property rights claimants so that allegations of infringement can be resolved expeditiously.  Notwithstanding our efforts to monitor and manage content and promptly resolve all issues, these measures may not be effective in removing violative content nor sufficient to shield us from potential liability, including situations where users do not have the financial ability to fully indemnify us against liabilities.. Despite our status as a service provider and not a publisher, we are exposed to risks associated with varying laws in other jurisdictions, including heightened risk of secondary liability on defamation suits in the United Kingdom and increased statutory penalties available for alleged trademark infringement in Germany.  Further, we maintain relationships with law enforcement agencies to manage issues related to child pornography or other illegal uses of our service and must monitor our services for such impermissible, unauthorized and illegal activities.  We also may be subject to subpoenas or other law enforcement or regulatory requests for information about our users or our website's services and the handling of such information requests may expose us to risk of suit from our users if not correctly and consistently managed in light of applicable law and consumer expectations of data privacy and judicial action or regulatory enforcement is not processed with appropriate alacrity.. 17. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Failure to protect confidential or personally identifiable information of our customers and our network against security breaches or failure to comply with privacy and security laws and regulations could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations.. A significant challenge to e-commerce and communications is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks.  Our failure to prevent security breaches could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations.  A majority of our sales are billed to our customers' credit card accounts directly, orders are shipped to a customer's address, and customers log on using their email address.  In addition, some online payments for our products are settled through third-party online payment services.  In such transactions, maintaining complete security for the transmission of confidential information on our websites, such as customers' credit card numbers and expiration dates, personal information and billing addresses, is essential to maintain consumer confidence.  We have limited influence over the security measures of third-party online payment service providers. In addition, we hold certain private information about our customers, such as their names, addresses, phone numbers and browsing and purchasing records.. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to effect the secure transmission of certain confidential information, including credit card numbers and personally identifiable customer information.  Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology used by us to protect customer transaction data.  In addition, any party who is able to illicitly obtain a user's password could potentially access the user's transaction data or personal information.  We may not be able to prevent third parties, such as hackers or criminal organizations, from stealing information provided by our customers to us through our websites.  In addition, our third-party merchants and delivery service providers may violate their confidentiality obligations and disclose information about our customers.  Any compromise of our security could damage our reputation and brand and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, which would substantially harm our business and results of operations.  In addition, anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations.. Significant capital and other resources may be required to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches.  While we maintain insurance coverage at levels we deem reasonable to manage liabilities relating to potential cyber-security risks, such coverage may be inadequate to cover all losses with respect to an actual breach.  The methods used by hackers and others engaged in online criminal activity are increasingly sophisticated and constantly evolving.  Even if we are successful in adapting to and preventing new security breaches, any perception by the public that e-commerce and other online transactions, or the privacy of user information, are becoming increasingly unsafe or vulnerable to attack could inhibit the growth of e-commerce and other online services generally, which in turn may reduce the number of orders we receive.  Any failure, or perception of failure, to protect the confidential information of our customers or our network could damage our reputation and harm our business.. We maintain industry standard privacy policies and practices with respect to the personally identifiable information of our users that we maintain.  Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with our privacy policies or privacy-related obligations to customers, sellers or other third parties may result in Federal or state governmental enforcement actions, litigation, or negative public statements against us by consumer advocacy groups or others and could cause our customers to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business.. We accept payment by a variety of methods and a substantial majority of our net revenue is derived from credit card sales. These methods, in turn, exposes us to increased risks of dependence on third-party payment processing service providers, as well as risks associated with higher transaction fees, compliance matters and fraud.. We accept payments for our products and services on our websites by a variety of methods, including credit card, debit card and other payment services.  As we offer new payment options to our customers, we may be subject to additional fees, additional regulations, compliance requirements and fraud.  To date, the substantial majority of our net revenue has been derived from credit card sales.  As a result, we believe our business is vulnerable to any disruption in our customer payment processing capabilities and third-party processor disruptions.  In most geographic regions, we rely on three or four third-party companies to provide payment processing services, including the processing of credit cards, debit cards and other payment services.  If any of these companies became unwilling or unable to provide these services to us, then we would need to find and engage replacement providers.  We may not be able to do so on terms that are acceptable to us or at all, or to process the payments ourselves, which could be costly and time consuming.  Additionally, as we typically experience increased activity from November through December each year due to increased retail activity during the holiday season, any disruption in our ability to process customer payments in the fourth quarter could have a significant and disproportionate negative impact on our business.. 18. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower our profit margins or require that we charge our customers more for our products.  We are also subject to payment card association and similar operating rules and requirements, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply.  If we fail to comply with these rules and requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our customers or facilitate other types of online payments, and our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected.. If we fail to manage our relationships with our suppliers, our business and prospects may suffer.. To address customer demand for a wider range of customizable products, we intend to continue to expand our merchandise selection. This in turn increases our reliance on suppliers of such merchandise.  Additionally, our business and reputation depend in large part on our ability to process and ship orders quickly, including during unanticipated or seasonal periods of increased demand.   As a result, we believe the successful management of our supplier relationships is a key aspect of our business and our ability to compete.  We source our blank products from domestic and foreign manufacturers and distributors.  Maintaining good relationships with suppliers that compete with each other can be difficult.  For example, suppliers of similar products may compete for more prominent placement on our websites.  Our current suppliers may not continue to sell merchandise to us on terms acceptable to us, and we may be unable to establish new or extend current supplier relationships to ensure a steady supply of blank inventory in a timely and cost-efficient manner.  If we are unable to develop and maintain good relationships with suppliers, it may inhibit our ability to offer products demanded by our customers or to offer them in sufficient quantities and at prices acceptable to them. In addition, if our suppliers cease to provide us with favorable pricing or payment terms or return policies, our working capital requirements may increase and our operations may be materially and adversely affected.  In addition, we subcontract certain activities to third- party vendors.  Any deterioration in our supplier or subcontractor relationships, or a failure to resolve disputes with, or complaints from, our suppliers in a timely manner, could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects and results of operations.. We may suffer losses if we are unable to efficiently manage our inventory risks.. We must anticipate the popularity of products and purchase blank inventory and secure sufficient supplies before customizing and selling them to our customers.  Across our businesses, we must manage differing demand and inventory controls to accurately forecast and protect against risks.  If we fail to adequately predict demand and experience an unexpected peak in production, our production times will suffer, which may result in damage to our reputation and business.  For example, if we do not have an adequate supply of ink due to periods of unexpected peak demand, our ability to print and deliver products may be delayed. Conversely, any over purchase of ink or other supplies exposes us to risks of obsolete or excess inventory.  Some of our contracts with suppliers contain restrictions on our ability to return products, such as caps on the amount of products that can be returned, and we may lose preferential pricing terms for such products if we exceed these caps, which could materially affect our profit margins.  If we are unable to correctly predict demand for the products that we are committed to purchase, we will be responsible for covering the cost of the products that we are unable to sell, and our financial condition and results of operations would likely suffer.. We largely depend on overseas suppliers for blank inventory and if we do not appropriately manage the risks related to product safety and quality, we may face regulatory actions or recalls and our operating results will be harmed.. Manufacturers in China are the source of much of the blank inventory we utilize in the creation of customized products for sale on our websites, whether sourced from vendors directly by our supply managers or purchased through our business or fulfillment partners.  Regulatory oversight of manufacturing in China is not subject to the same standards of product safety or supply chain scrutiny as may be expected in the United States.  One or more of our vendors might not adhere to U.S. quality or legal standards, and we might not identify the deficiency before merchandise ships to our customers.  As an example, the Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010 in California requires us to audit our vendors with respect to risks of human trafficking and slavery and mitigate these risks in our operations.  Any failure to disclose issues or other non-compliance could subject us to action by the California Attorney General or other regulatory authorities.  Our distribution partners also maintain global sourcing policies with which we must comply in order to maintain business relationships.  Such policies require us to monitor our supply chain and there is no guarantee we will be able to do so consistently and successfully over time and secure a price that is not otherwise damaging to our business. In addition, our vendors may have difficulty adjusting to our changing demands and growing business.  Our vendors' failure to manufacture or import quality merchandise in a timely and effective manner could damage our reputation and brand, and could lead to an increase in customer litigation against us and an increase in our routine litigation costs.  We rely on indemnities from suppliers and manufacturers with respect to the goods we customize and that protection may or may not be enough to shield us from liability for quality deficiencies.  Further, any merchandise that we receive, even if it meets our quality standards, could become subject to a later recall, which could damage our reputation, our brand and our customers' brands and harm our business.. 19. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. While we have never been subject to a product recall, there can be no guarantee that we will not face one in the future and the costs associated with such a recall may be substantial.  Recently enacted legislation has given the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission increased regulatory and enforcement power, particularly with regard to children's safety, among other areas. As a result, companies such as ours may be subject to more product recalls and incur higher recall-related expenses.  Any recalls or other safety issues could harm our business and operating results.. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights may undermine our competitive position, and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights or defend against third-party allegations of infringement may be costly and time-consuming.. Protection of our proprietary technology is critical to our business.  Failure to protect and monitor the use of our existing intellectual property rights could result in the loss of valuable technologies and prevent us from maintaining a leading market position.  We rely primarily on patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and other contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property. As of December 31, 2017, we had seven issued patents and one patent pending in the United States, which relate to our e-commerce services, and our proprietary printing and decorating services.  We may have, on occasion, disclosed inventions prior to making the relevant filings, which may make our patent applications and any resulting issued patents vulnerable to validity challenges. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents, or if patents are issued to us, such patents may not provide meaningful protection against competitors or against competitive technologies.. We also rely upon certain unpatented proprietary manufacturing expertise and modeling methods and designs, licensed third-party technologies, continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position.  While we enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, certain confidentiality and invention assignment agreements may be limited in duration or deemed by a court to be unenforceable.  Moreover, these confidentiality and invention assignment agreements could be breached, potentially in ways that we may not immediately detect, and thus may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or proprietary manufacturing expertise.  Adequate remedies may not be available in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and manufacturing expertise. In addition, others may obtain knowledge of our trade secrets through independent development or legal means.  The failure of our patents or confidentiality agreements to protect our processes, equipment, technology, trade secrets and proprietary manufacturing expertise, methods of system design, other methods and materials could have a material adverse effect on our business.  In addition, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries.  In some countries where we operate, we have not applied for patent, trademark or copyright protection.. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our proprietary technologies or other intellectual property rights, which could harm our business, financial condition or operating results.  Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive and potentially subjects our intellectual property rights to validity and enforceability challenges.  Also, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others.  We cannot assure you that the outcome of such potential litigation will be in our favor. Such litigation may be costly and time-consuming and may divert management attention and other resources away from our business.  An adverse determination in any such litigation will impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation.. We may face infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, which, if determined adversely to us, could cause us to pay significant damage awards or prohibit us from conducting our business.. Our success depends largely on our ability to use and develop our technology and know-how without infringing or misappropriating the intellectual property rights of third parties.  The validity and scope of claims relating to business process patents involve complex scientific, legal and factual questions and analysis and, therefore, may be highly uncertain.  We have been and may continue to be subject to litigation involving claims of patent infringement or violation of intellectual property rights of third parties, including allegations of patent infringement asserted by patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant product revenue and against whom our own patents may therefore provide little or no deterrence.  E-commerce companies and divisions have been particularly the target of speculative patent infringement claims in recent years.  The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, patent opposition proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time-consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liability to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, which may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, pay ongoing royalties, or subject us to injunctions prohibiting the use of our technologies.  Protracted litigation could also result in our customers or potential partner customers of our products or services deferring, limiting or ceasing their purchase or use of our website services until resolution of such litigation.. 20. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. We may be involved in legal proceedings that may result in adverse outcomes.. In addition to the potential infringement claims described above, we may be involved in claims, suits, government investigations, and regulatory proceedings arising in the ordinary course of our business, including actions with respect to privacy, data protection, law enforcement, taxes, labor and employment claims as well as stockholder derivative actions, class actions lawsuits and other matters.. Regardless of the outcome, such legal proceedings can have an adverse impact on us because of the legal defense costs, diversion of our Board of Directors, management and other personnel's time and resources, and other factors and expenses.  In addition, it is possible that resolution of one or more such proceedings could result in liability, penalties or sanctions, as well as judgments, penalties, consent decrees or orders preventing us from offering certain features in our product offerings or services, requiring changes in our business practices or revenue models, or damaging our reputation with customers, business partners or investors, any of which in turn could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition.. We are a \"smaller reporting company\" and, as a result of the reduced disclosure and governance requirements applicable to smaller reporting companies, our common stock may be less attractive to investors.. We are a \"smaller reporting company,\" meaning that we are not an investment company, an asset-backed issuer, or a majority-owned subsidiary of a parent company that is not a \"smaller reporting company,\" and had a public float of less than $75 million  during the most recently completed fiscal year.  As a \"smaller reporting company,\" we are subject to lesser disclosure obligations in our SEC filings compared to other issuers.  Specifically, \"smaller reporting companies\" are able to provide simplified executive compensation disclosures in their filings, are exempt from the provisions of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requiring that independent registered public accounting firms provide an attestation report on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and have certain other decreased disclosure obligations in their SEC filings, including, among other things, only being required to provide two years of audited financial statements in annual reports.  Decreased disclosures in our SEC filings due to our status a \"smaller reporting company\" may make it harder for investors to analyze our operating results and financial prospects.. We are subject to, and may in the future be subject to additional regulatory compliance requirements, including Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which cause us to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses.. We incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses as a public company and may incur additional expense in the future to the extent we cease to be a \"smaller reporting company.\" In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the Nasdaq Stock Market, or Nasdaq, impose a number of requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices.  The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting annually and disclosure controls and procedures quarterly. While the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, also known as the JOBS Act, enacted in April 2012, provided us with additional time through the year ended December 31, 2016 to achieve full compliance, the regulations surrounding Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act has required us to, and will continue to, incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management time on compliance-related issues.  Moreover, these rules and regulations will continue to increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs and will make some corporate activities more time-consuming and costly than private company compliance.  These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our Board of Directors, our board committees or as executive officers and will make securing directors' and officers' liability insurance more expensive.. If we are unable to successfully improve internal controls, or detect weaknesses or errors in our internal controls, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected as well as our ability to attract investors in our stock.. We have implemented and continue to adopt measures to improve our internal controls.  If the procedures we have adopted and implemented are insufficient, we may fail to meet our future reporting obligations, our financial statements may contain material misstatements and our operating results may be harmed.  For example, we identified a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2016 which we believe was remediated in the first quarter of 2017.  In addition, we have in the past experienced deficiencies in internal controls, and while the dollar amounts involved were not material and we believe we have remediated these deficiencies, there can be no assurance that similar or other significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our financial reporting will not occur in the future.  Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to meet our future reporting obligations or cause our financial statements to contain material misstatements.  Internal. 21. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. control deficiencies could also result in a revision or restatement of our financial statements in the future or cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price.. If we fail to maintain effective and appropriate internal controls over financial reporting processes or modify them as necessary to maintain such controls, investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports.  If we fail to properly manage internal operational controls across our businesses and our websites, confidence in our business and results of operations may suffer and the price of our common stock may decline.  If the reliability of our internal control over financial reporting is in question, the price of our common stock may decline or be otherwise adversely affected. Such doubts about the efficacy of internal controls could also impair our ability to attract new investors and may adversely affect our ability to continue our growth and meet our forecasts.. If our management of internal controls is not effective, there may be errors in our financial information that could require a restatement or delay our SEC filings, and investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information or significantly increased costs in rectifying such issues, which could lead to a decline in our stock price.. We have incurred and may continue to incur high corporate governance costs to ensure our controls practices meet the required standards.  Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations, or result in material misstatements in our financial information or cause us to incur material increase in the costs associated with our corporate governance.  Any such delays or restatements could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and lead to a decline in our stock price. Any dramatic increased costs could impact our results in operations and stock price could be materially adversely impacted.. Risks related to our industry. Uncertainties regarding the growth and sustained profitability of business-to-consumer e-commerce could adversely affect our revenue and business prospects and the trading price of our common stock.. The long-term viability and prospects of e-commerce remain relatively uncertain.  Our future operating results will depend on numerous industry-related factors, including:. • The trust and confidence level of consumers in online shopping, as well as changes in consumer demographics and consumers' tastes and preferences;. • Concerns about buying customized and personalized products without face-to-face interaction with sales personnel;. • Our ability to provide high-quality customization capabilities and printing output, including design tools, resolution quality, color and sizing accuracy of images;. • The selection, price and popularity of products that we and our competitors offer on websites;. • Whether alternative retail channels or business models that better address the needs of consumers emerge;. • The impact of new technology platforms for Internet access, such as mobile, and methods of marketing, such as social media;. • The development of fulfillment, payment and other ancillary services associated with online purchases; and. • General economic conditions, particularly economic conditions affecting discretionary consumer spending.. A decline in the popularity of shopping on the Internet in general or a shift in the devices used that are not optimal for viewing our sites, a decline in interest in customized goods as a retail trend or any failure by us to adapt our websites and improve the online shopping experience of our customers in response to consumer requirements and tastes, will harm our revenue and business prospects.. Our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that may materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.. We maintain websites localized to the markets in the United Kingdom, Australia and Canada.  Additionally, we utilize contract manufacturing operations through partners in the Czech Republic and Australia.  In connection with our international presence we are subject to a variety of risks including:. 22. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. • The need to develop new production, supplier and customer relationships;. • Difficulties in enforcing contracts, collecting accounts receivables and longer payment cycles;. • Regulatory, political or contractual limitations on our ability to operate and sell in certain foreign markets, including trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses as well as tax nexus issues for royalties paid to non-U.S. content providers;. • Varying and more extensive data privacy and security laws and regulations in other countries;. • Challenges of international delivery and customs requirements;. • Varying product safety requirements and content restrictions in other countries;. • Difficulties of language translations, increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance and enforcement costs associated with international operations;. • Currency transaction risk, which may negatively affect our revenue, cost of net revenue and gross margins, and could result in exchange losses;. • Difficulty with managing widespread international operations and fulfillment partnerships;. • Reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries;. • The need to defend against intellectual property infringement claims against us in unfamiliar foreign legal regimes and to comply with unfamiliar foreign regulatory schemes and laws;. • Lower per capita Internet usage and lack of appropriate infrastructure to support widespread Internet usage as well as broadband connections on which our content-rich services depend;. • Heightened exposure to political instability, war and terrorism; and. • Changes in the general economic and political conditions.. Our success globally will depend on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international presence. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international reputation and reduce our international sales, adversely affecting our business, operating results and financial condition.. If use of the Internet, particularly with respect to e-commerce, decreases or does not increase, our business and results of operations will be harmed.. Our future revenue is substantially dependent upon the continued growth in the use of the Internet as an effective medium of business and communication by our target customers.  Internet use may not continue to develop at historical rates and consumers may not continue to use the Internet and other online services as a medium for commerce for several reasons including the following:. • Actual or perceived lack of security of information or privacy protection;. • Attacks on or attempts to hijack our domain or website traffic or similar damage to our domains or servers;. • Possible disruptions, computer viruses, spyware, phishing, attacks or other damage to the Internet servers, service providers, network carriers and Internet companies or to users' computers; and. • Excessive governmental regulation and new taxation measures.. Our success will depend, in large part, upon third parties maintaining the Internet infrastructure to provide a reliable network backbone with the speed, data capacity, security and hardware necessary for reliable Internet access and services.  Our business, which relies on contextually rich websites that require the transmission of substantial secure data, is also significantly dependent upon the availability and adoption of broadband Internet access and other high speed Internet connectivity technologies.. Taxation risks could subject us to liability for past sales and cause our future sales to decrease.. United States Supreme Court precedents currently restrict the imposition of obligations to collect state and local sales and use taxes with respect to sales made over the Internet.  However, in recent years, a number of states, as well as the U.S. Congress, have attempted or are considering adoption of initiatives that limit or supersede the Supreme Court's position regarding sales and use taxes on Internet sales or with respect to affiliate marketing programs we employ to generate sales on our websites.  If these initiatives are successful, we could be required to collect sales taxes in additional states or change our business practices and we may be exposed to retroactive liability on sales.  The imposition of a Federal tax scheme or the imposition by individual state and local governments of taxes upon Internet commerce or affiliate programs could create administrative burdens for us in the future that may pose operational challenges.  We currently collect sales tax in states in which we believe we have established sales tax. 23. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. nexus based on our operations and physical presence and in compliance with existing law.  We have elected to discontinue affiliate marketing programs residing in states that have enacted affiliate sales tax nexus statutes.  Under some of our agreements, another company is the seller of record, but we are nevertheless obligated to collect sales tax on transactions.  We may enter into additional agreements requiring similar tax collection obligations. We expect the complexity of the application of various taxation schemes to continue to pose challenges to our business on a go forward basis.. We also make payments to our users where they upload content and license to us for the creation of online products and/or storefronts.  We believe it is our content owners' obligation to pay taxes on their percentage of proceeds from such sales.  In the U.S., we issue appropriate tax forms disclaiming the withholding on taxes on such sales.  U.S. law remains unsettled on taxation of sales made in the U.S. for which we may owe payments to licensors who reside outside the U.S., and we are continuing to evaluate potential withholding obligations in connection with those sales.   There is no guarantee that such procedures will be appropriate to disclaim taxable nexus in every state and foreign country in the future and we continually review such positions on a regular basis for recent developments.. We comply with tax liability obligations, including value added tax and provincial sales tax, in foreign jurisdictions as applicable but additional foreign countries may seek to impose sales or other tax collection obligations on us and as our international sales grow and we expand localized language sites our exposure to liability likewise grows.. A successful assertion of taxable nexus with respect to any of our sales, affiliate marketing or user royalty payment activity by one or more states or foreign countries that we should collect sales or other taxes on the sale of merchandise could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, decrease our ability to compete with traditional retailers or competitors, negatively impact our financial position or otherwise harm our business.. Changes in U.S. tax laws or in the tax laws of other jurisdictions in which we operate could adversely impact us.. Tax laws may change in ways that adversely impact us.   Changes such as lower corporate tax rates, repatriation allowances, removal of the interest expense deduction or the introduction of a border adjustment tax could impact us as a U.S. taxpayer.  Federal or state tax legislation could be enacted in connection with deficit reduction or various types of fundamental tax reform that would lessen or eliminate some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting us and therefore could materially and adversely impact our results of operations.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed Public Law 115-97, informally referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"TCJA\") into law.  The TCJA contains significant changes to U.S. federal corporate income taxation, including reduction of the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% for US taxable income, resulting in a one-time remeasurement of deferred taxes to reflect their value at a lower tax rate of 21%, limitation of the deduction for net operating losses to 80% of current year taxable income and elimination of net operating loss carrybacks, deemed repatriation, resulting in one-time taxation of offshore earnings at reduced rates, elimination of U.S. tax on foreign earnings (subject to certain important exceptions), and immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time.   Effective January 1, 2018, the new legislation contains several key tax provisions that will impact us including the reduction of the corporate income tax rate to 21%.  ASC 740, Income Taxes requires us to recognize the effect of the tax law change in the period of enactment.  The lower tax rate requires us to remeasure our deferred tax assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2017.  The total amount of our deferred tax assets before valuation allowance decreased by $5.4 million as a result of the decrease in the federal tax rate.. Risks related to ownership of our common stock. Our stock price has been volatile, may continue to be volatile and may decline regardless of financial performance.. The market price for our common stock has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate in response to a number of factors, including:. • Actual or anticipated fluctuations, including seasonal variations, in our financial condition and operating results;. • Changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other e-commerce companies or companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us;. • Our announcement of actual results for a fiscal period that are higher or lower than projected results, our announcement of revenue or earnings guidance that is higher or lower than expected, our withdrawal of previously issued guidance or our decision not to provide guidance;. • Loss of a significant amount of existing business;. • Issuance of new or updated research reports by securities analysts, including the publication of unfavorable reports or changes in recommendation or downgrading of ratings on our common stock;. 24. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. • Actual or anticipated fluctuations in our competitors' operating results or changes in their growth rates;. • Lack of coverage of us by industry or securities analysts;. • Regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our customers or our competitors;. • Fluctuations in the supply and prices of materials used in our products, such as cotton;. • Share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent or low trading volume levels of our shares, to erratic or unpredictable investor activity, or to purchases or sales or large amounts of our stock, including by institutional or other investors;. • Commencement of, or our involvement in, litigation;. • Terrorist attacks or natural disasters or other such events impacting countries where we or our customers have operations; and. • General economic and market conditions.. For example, from March 29, 2012 through December 31, 2017, our stock price has fluctuated from a high of $22.69 on March 29, 2012 to a low of $1.74 on November 10, 2017.  As of December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, our stock price closed at $1.85 and $2.94, respectively.. We have a relatively small public float, which may further contribute to volatility in our stock price.. We have a relatively small public float due to the ownership percentage of our executive officers and directors and greater than 10% stockholders.  In addition, in April 2016, our Board of Directors approved the extension of our existing share repurchase program that authorized the purchase of up to 20% of the outstanding shares of our common stock or an aggregate of 3.5 million shares of our common stock.  In February 2017, our Board of Directors terminated the program.  As a result of our small public float, our common stock may be less liquid and have greater stock price volatility than the common stock of companies with broader public ownership.  In addition, the trading of a relatively small volume of shares of our common stock may result in significant volatility in our stock price.  If and to the extent ownership of our common stock becomes more concentrated, whether due to increased ownership by our directors and executive officers or other significant stockholders, any future repurchase of our common stock, or other factors, our public float would further decrease, which in turn would likely result in increased stock price volatility.. Furthermore, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies.  These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies.  These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may cause the market price of shares of our common stock to decline.  As an e-commerce company, we believe our stock price may be particularly susceptible to volatility as the stock prices of technology and e-commerce companies have often been subject to wide fluctuations.   Additionally, because a large amount of our stock is closely held, we may experience low trading volume or large fluctuations in share price and volume due to large sales by institutional investors.. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation.   We have been in the past, and in the future may be, the target of this type of litigation. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business.. Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and in Delaware law generally contain provisions that could discourage a takeover.. In addition to the effect that the concentration of ownership by our officers, directors and significant stockholders may have, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may enable our management to resist a change of control.  These provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our ownership or a change in our management.  In addition, these provisions could limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock.  Such provisions as set forth in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws include:. 25. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. • Our Board of Directors is authorized, without prior stockholder approval, to create and issue preferred stock, commonly referred to as \"blank check\" preferred stock, with rights senior to those of common stock;. • Advance notice is required of stockholders to nominate candidates to serve on our Board of Directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings;. • Stockholder action by written consent is prohibited;. • Special meetings of the stockholders will be permitted to be called only by a majority of our Board of Directors, the chairman of our Board of Directors or our chief executive officer;. • Newly created directorships resulting from an increase in the authorized number of directors or vacancies on our Board of Directors will be filled only by majority vote of the remaining directors, even though less than a quorum is then in office, or by a sole remaining director;. • The requirement that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware shall be the sole and exclusive forum for certain derivative and other actions;. • Our Board of Directors is expressly authorized to modify, alter or repeal our amended and restated bylaws; and. • Stockholders will be permitted to amend our amended and restated bylaws only upon receiving at least two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of all outstanding shares then entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class.. We are also subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock.  These and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our Board of Directors or initiate actions that are opposed by our then-current Board of Directors, including delaying or impeding a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us.  Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our Board of Directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. Our stock price has been volatile historically, and may continue to be volatile. Further, sales of our common stock by stockholders with significant holdings may cause the price of our common stock to decrease.. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations.  Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements by us or our competitors, including announcements relating to strategic decisions or key personnel, service disruptions, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by security analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, volatility in the financial markets and news reports relating to trends in our markets or general economic conditions.  The impact of these events and factors on our stock price is amplified by the relatively low number of our shares on the market.. In addition, several of our stockholders own significant portions of our common stock.  If these stockholders were to sell all or a large portion of their holdings of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could be negatively impacted. The effect of such sales, or of significant portions of our stock being offered or made available for sale, could result in strong downward pressure on our stock price. Investors should be aware that they could experience significant short-term volatility in our stock if such stockholders decide to sell all or a portion of their holdings of our common stock at once or within a short period of time."
