[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.. Our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows can be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. The risks described below are not the only ones we face, but those we currently consider to be material. There may be other risks which we now consider immaterial, or which are unknown or unpredictable, with respect to our business, our competition, the regulatory environment or otherwise that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS. We have incurred substantial losses and negative cash flow from operations in the past, and expect to continue to incur losses and negative cash flow for the foreseeable future.. We have a limited operating history, limited capital, and limited sources of revenue. Since our inception in 1980 through December 31, 2017, we have incurred aggregate net losses of approximately $381.8 million. Our net losses from continuing operations attributable to common stockholders for the years ended December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 were approximately $16.0 million and $31.0 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2017, our cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, and marketable securities were $60.1 million. Our current business has not generated revenues in the past and for the foreseeable future we do not expect it to generate revenue to be sufficient to cover costs attributable to that business or to our operations as a whole, including our development activities associated with our product candidates. Ultimately, we may never generate sufficient revenue from our business to reach profitability, generate positive cash flow or sustain, on an ongoing basis, our current or projected levels of product development and other operations.. We anticipate that we will need substantial additional financing to continue our operations; if we are unable to raise additional capital, we may be forced to delay, reduce or eliminate one or more of our product development programs, and our business will be harmed.. Our current operating plan will require significant levels of additional capital to fund the continued development of our cell therapy product candidates and our clinical development activities.. We initiated a Phase 2 clinical trial of CLBS03 for TID in early 2016, and have other costs relating to that program, particularly due to the licensing of patents, data and collaboration with third parties. Our clinical activities are expected to continue to grow as these programs are advanced and they will require significant investment over a period of several years before they could be approved by FDA and commercialized by us, if ever. Even if we were to achieve encouraging results from the Phase 2 trial for CLBS03 and other product candidates, we are required to conduct additional clinical trials of the product candidates, including larger and more expensive pivotal Phase 3 trials to pursue commercialization of the candidates. To do so, we will need to raise additional capital, enter into collaboration agreements with third parties or undertake any combination thereof. If we are unsuccessful in our efforts to raise capital or find collaborative partners, we will likely need to otherwise delay or abandon the trials.. The amount and timing of our future capital requirements also will likely depend on many other factors, including:. • the scope, progress, results, costs, timing and outcomes of our cell therapy research and development programs and product candidates;. • our ability to enter into any collaboration agreements with third parties for our product candidates and the timing and terms of any such agreements;. • the costs associated with the consummation of one or more strategic transactions;. • the timing of and the costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals for our product candidates, a process which could be particularly lengthy or complex given the FDA's limited experience with marketing approval for cell therapy products;. • the costs of maintaining, expanding and protecting our intellectual property portfolio, including potential litigation costs and liabilities; and. • the cost of expansion of our development operations and personnel.. To both fund our clinical trials and support our future operations, we would likely seek to raise capital through a variety of different public and/or private financings vehicles. This could include, but not be limited to, implementation of our at-the-market (\"ATM\") sales agreement with H.C. Wainwright & Co., potential warrant exercises, option exercises, issuances of other debt or equity securities in public or private financings, and/or sale of assets. If we raise capital through the sale of equity, or securities convertible into equity, it would result in dilution to our then existing stockholders. Servicing the interest and principal repayment obligations under debt we incur, or whether we call it, diverts funds that would otherwise be available to support research and development, clinical or commercialization activities. In addition, debt financing involves covenants that restrict our ability to. 14. Index. operate our business. In certain cases, we also may seek funding through collaborative arrangements that would likely require us to relinquish certain rights to our technology or product candidates and share in the future revenues associated with the partnered product.. Ultimately, we may be unable to raise capital or enter into collaborative relationships on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all. Our inability to obtain necessary capital or financing to fund our future operating needs could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We have never generated any revenue from product sales and our ability to generate revenue from product sales and become profitable depends significantly on our success in a number of factors.. We have no products approved for commercial sale, have not generated any revenue from product sales, and do not anticipate generating any revenue from product sales until sometime after we have received regulatory approval for the commercial sale of a product candidate, which may never occur. Our ability to generate revenue from product sales and achieve profitability depends significantly on our success in many factors, including:. • completing research regarding, and nonclinical and clinical development of, our product candidates;. • obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing authorizations for product candidates for which we complete clinical trials;. • developing a sustainable and scalable manufacturing process for our product candidates;. • identifying and contracting with contract manufacturers that have the ability and capacity to manufacture our development products and make them at an acceptable cost;. • launching and commercializing product candidates for which we obtain regulatory approvals and marketing authorizations, either directly or with a collaborator or distributor;. • obtaining market acceptance of our product candidates as viable treatment options;. • addressing any competing technological and market developments;. • identifying, assessing, acquiring and/or developing new product candidates;. • negotiating favorable terms in any collaboration, licensing, or other arrangements into which we may enter;. • maintaining, protecting, and expanding our portfolio of intellectual property rights, including patents, trade secrets, and know-how; and. • attracting, hiring, and retaining qualified personnel.. Even if one or more of the product candidates that we develop is approved for commercial sale, we anticipate incurring significant costs associated with commercializing any approved product candidate. Our expenses could increase beyond expectations if we are required by the FDA, or other regulatory agencies, domestic or foreign, to change our manufacturing processes or assays, or to perform clinical, nonclinical, or other types of studies in addition to those that we currently anticipate. If we are successful in obtaining regulatory approvals to market one or more of our product candidates, our revenue will depend, in part, upon the size of the markets in the territories for which we obtain regulatory approval, the accepted price for the product, the ability to receive reimbursement at any price, and whether we own the commercial rights for that territory. If the number of our addressable disease patients is not as significant as we estimate, the indication approved by regulatory authorities is narrower than we expect, or the reasonably accepted population for treatment is narrowed by competition, physician choice or treatment guidelines, we may not generate significant revenue from sales of such products, even if approved. If we are not able to generate revenue from the sale of any approved products, we may never become profitable.. If our status as a smaller reporting company changes, Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 may require an independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Any delays or difficulty in satisfying these requirements could adversely affect our future results of operations and our stock price.. Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires an independent registered public accounting firm to test the internal control over financial reporting of public companies, and to report on the effectiveness of such controls, for each fiscal year ending after June 15, 2010. Under the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, we are exempt from Section 404(b) as long as we remain a smaller reporting company or a non-accelerated filer. If our status as a smaller reporting company changes, we may be required to comply with this auditor attestation requirement.. In addition, we may in the future discover areas of our internal controls that need improvement, particularly with respect to businesses that we may acquire. If so, we cannot be certain that any remedial measure we take will ensure that we have adequate internal controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting. 15. Index. obligations. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting, or if it becomes necessary for our independent registered public accounting firm to provide us with an unqualified report regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and it is unable to do so, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. This could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CELL THERAPY PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT EFFORTS. Our future success may be dependent on the timely and successful development and commercialization of CLBS03, our TID product candidate, and if we encounter delays or difficulties in the development of this product candidate, as well as CLBS12, our experimental product for CLI that is in clinical development in Japan, or CLBS14 for CMD, our business prospects would be significantly harmed.. We are dependent upon the successful development, approval and commercialization of our product candidates. Before we are able to seek regulatory approval of our product candidates, we must conduct and complete extensive clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy in humans. All of our product candidates are in early stages of development.. In early 2016 we initiated a Phase 2 clinical trial for CLBS03, a Treg based therapeutic being developed for T1D. In late 2017 we initiated a clinical trial in Japan of CLBS12 taking advantage of the paradigm of potential conditional approval for regenerative medicine products established by new regulations in Japan for products that show sufficient safety evidence and some evidence of efficacy with CLI. We also expect to commence a clinical trial using CD34 cells to treat CMD later is year (CLBS14). Additionally, we are exploring the possibility of reactivating an IND originally filed by Baxalta for treating refractory angina with CD34 cells and engaging in discussions with the FDA about further development of a product under that IND, of which we are now the sponsor.  Clinical testing is expensive, difficult to design and implement, and can take many years to complete. Importantly, a failure of one or more of these or any other clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, clinical trials that could delay or prevent our ability to complete our clinical trials, receive regulatory approval or commercialize our cell therapy product candidates, including the following:. • suspensions, delays or changes in the design, initiation, enrollment, implementation or completion of required clinical trials;. • adverse changes in our financial position or significant and unexpected increases in the cost of our clinical development program;. • changes or uncertainties in, or additions to, the regulatory approval process that require us to alter our current development strategy;. • clinical trial results that are negative, inconclusive or even less than desired as to safety and/or efficacy, which could result in the need for additional clinical trials or the termination of the product's development;. • delays in our ability to manufacture the product in quantities or in a form that is suitable for any required clinical trials;. • intellectual property constraints that prevent us from making, using, or commercializing any of our cell therapy product candidates;. • the supply or quality of our product candidates or other materials necessary to conduct clinical trials of these product candidates may be insufficient or inadequate:. • inability to generate sufficient preclinical, toxicology, or other in vivo or in vitro data to support the initiation of clinical trials;. • delays in reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations, or CROs, contract manufacturing organizations or CMOs, and clinical trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs, CMOs and clinical trial sites;. • delays in obtaining required IRB approval at each clinical trial site;. • inability to file IND's for our development candidates;. • imposition of a temporary or permanent clinical hold by the FDA or similar restrictions by other regulatory agencies for a number of reasons, including after review of an IND or amendment, or equivalent application or amendment; as a result of a new safety finding that presents unreasonable risk to clinical trial participants; a negative finding from an inspection of our clinical trial operations or clinical trial sites; developments on trials conducted by competitors or approved products post-market for related technology that raises FDA concerns about risk to patients of the technology broadly; or if FDA finds that the investigational protocol or plan is clearly deficient to meet its stated objectives;. • difficulty collaborating with patient groups and investigators;. 16. Index. • failure by our CROs, CMOs other third parties, or us to adhere to clinical trial requirements;. • failure to perform in accordance with the FDA or international GCP requirements;. • failure to reach agreement with the FDA on a satisfactory development path of our development candidates;. • delays in having patients qualify for or complete participation in a trial or return for post-treatment follow-up;. • patients dropping out of a clinical trial;. • occurrence of adverse events associated with the product candidate;. • changes in the standard of care on which a clinical development plan was based, which may require new or additional trials or abandoning existing trials;. • transfer of manufacturing processes from our academic collaborators to larger-scale facilities operated by either a contract manufacturing organization, or CMO, or by us, and delays or failure by our CMOs or us to make any necessary changes to such manufacturing process;. • delays in manufacturing, testing, releasing, validating, or importing/exporting sufficient stable quantities of our product candidates for use in clinical trials or the inability to do any of the foregoing; and. • FDA may not accept clinical data from trials that are conducted in countries where the standard of care is potentially different from the United States.. Any inability to successfully complete nonclinical and clinical development could result in additional costs to us or impair our ability to generate revenue. In addition, if we make manufacturing or formulation changes to our product candidates, we may be required to or we may elect to conduct bridging studies to demonstrate the equivalence of our modified product candidates to earlier versions. Clinical trial delays could also shorten any periods during which our products have patent protection and may allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do, which could impair our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates and may harm our business and results of operations.. Even if we are able to successfully complete our clinical development program for our product candidates, and ultimately receive regulatory approval to market one or more of the products, we may, among other things:. • obtain approval for indications that are not as broad as the indications we sought;. • have the product removed from the market after obtaining marketing approval;. • encounter problems with respect to the manufacturing of commercial supplies. • be subject to additional post-marketing testing requirements; and/or. • be subject to restrictions on how the product is distributed or used.. We may experience delays in enrolling patients in our clinical trials, which could delay or prevent the receipt of necessary regulatory approvals.. We may not be able to initiate or complete as planned any clinical trials if we are unable to identify and enroll a sufficient number of eligible patients to participate in the clinical trials required by the FDA or other regulatory authorities. We also may be unable to engage a sufficient number of clinical trial sites to conduct our trials. Moreover, because PCT does not currently have manufacturing facilities operating outside of the United States, our ability to conduct trials outside of the United States may be constrained by our ability to transport trial materials to foreign destinations within the expiry period of such materials unless and until we commence operation outside of the United States or find another source of supply.. We may face challenges in enrolling patients to participate in our clinical trials due to the novelty of our cell-based therapies, the size of the patient populations and the eligibility criteria for enrollment in the trial. In addition, some patients may have concerns regarding cell therapy that may negatively affect their perception of therapies under development and their decision to enroll in the trials. Furthermore, patients suffering from diseases within target indications may enroll in competing clinical trials, which could negatively affect our ability to complete enrollment of our trials. Enrollment challenges in clinical trials often result in increased development costs for a product candidate, significant delays and potentially the abandonment of the clinical trial.. We may have other delays in completing our clinical trials and we may not complete them at all.. We have not completed the clinical trials necessary to obtain FDA approval to market CLBS03, CLBS12 CLBS14 or any of our other product candidates in development. We have not initiated Phase 3 clinical trials for any of our product candidates now in development. Our management lacks significant experience in completing Phase 3 trials and bringing a drug through commercialization. Clinical trials for other products in development may be delayed or terminated as a result of many factors, including the following:. 17. Index. • patients failing to complete clinical trials due to dissatisfaction with the treatment, side effects or other reasons;. • failure by regulators to authorize us to commence a clinical trial;. • suspension or termination by regulators of clinical research for many reasons, including concerns about patient safety or failure of our contract manufacturers to comply with cGMP requirements;. • delays or failure to obtain clinical supply for our products necessary to conduct clinical trials from contract manufacturers, including commercial grade clinical supply for our trials;. • treatment candidates demonstrating a lack of efficacy during clinical trials;. • inability to continue to fund clinical trials or to find a partner to fund the clinical trials;. • competition with ongoing clinical trials and scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians; and. • delays in completing data collection and analysis for clinical trials.. Any delay or failure to complete clinical trials and obtain FDA approval for our product candidates could have a material adverse effect on our cost to develop and commercialize, and our ability to generate revenue from, a particular product candidate.. We may be unable to manage multiple late stage clinical trials for a variety of product candidates simultaneously.. As our current clinical trials progress, we may need to manage multiple late stage clinical trials simultaneously in order to continue developing all of our current products. Our management team does not have significant experience in completing late stage clinical trials and the management of late stage clinical trials is more complex and time consuming than early stage trials. Typically, early stage trials involve several hundred patients in no more than 30 clinical sites. Late stage (Phase 3) trials may involve up to several thousand patients in up to several hundred clinical sites and may require facilities in several countries. Therefore, the project management required to supervise and control such an extensive program is substantially larger than early stage programs. As the need for these resources is not known until some months before the trials begin, it is necessary to recruit large numbers of experienced and talented individuals very quickly. If the labor market does not allow this team to be recruited quickly, the sponsor is faced with a decision to delay the program or to initiate it with inadequate management resources. This may result in recruitment of inappropriate patients, inadequate monitoring of clinical investigators and inappropriate handling of data or data analysis. Consequently, it is possible that conclusions of efficacy or safety may not be acceptable to permit submission of a BLA for any one of the above reasons or a combination of several.. The development of our cell therapy product candidates are subject to uncertainty because autologous cell therapy is inherently variable.. When manufacturing an autologous cell therapy, the number and the composition of the cell population varies from patient to patient. Such variability in the number and composition of these cells could adversely affect our ability to manufacture autologous cell therapies in a cost-effective or profitable manner and meet acceptable product release specifications for use in a clinical trial or, if approved, for commercial sale. As a consequence, the development and regulatory approval process for autologous cell therapy products could be delayed or may never be completed.. Any disruption to our access to the reagents we are using in the clinical development of our cell therapy product candidates could adversely affect our ability to perform clinical trials and seek future regulatory submissions.. Reagents, including CD3 and CD28 antibody conjugated magnetic beads manufactured by Life Technologies Corporation, as well as, devices, materials and systems that we are using in our clinical trials, that we intend to use in our planned clinical trials and that we may need or use in commercial production, are provided by unaffiliated third parties. Any lack of continued availability of these reagents, devices, materials and systems for any reason would have a material adverse effect on our ability to complete these studies and could adversely impact our ability to achieve commercial manufacture of our planned therapeutic products. Although other available sources for these reagents, devices, materials and systems may exist in the marketplace, we have not evaluated their cost, effectiveness, or intellectual property foundation and therefore cannot guarantee the suitability or availability of such other potential sources.. The initiation of pivotal Phase 3 clinical trials for cell therapy product candidates requires the validation and establishment of manufacturing controls that may delay the products' development timeline.. To conduct pivotal Phase 3 clinical trials, we are required to have certain validated and established manufacturing controls with respect to the safety, purity and potency of our product when administered to patients. If we determine that the results of our planned Phase 2 clinical trial in T1D, or the results of any other Phase 2 clinical trial we may conduct support Phase 3 development, we expect to initiate and complete one or more pivotal Phase 3 clinical trials for such programs and would need to address any outstanding chemistry, manufacturing and controls, or CMC, issues raised by the FDA prior to initiating such trials. We may not be successful in our efforts to address any CMC issues raised by the FDA. If we cannot initiate, or if we are delayed in initiating, a pivotal Phase 3 clinical program as a result of our failure to satisfy the FDA's CMC concerns or otherwise, the timing of regulatory. 18. Index. submission for commercialization of our product candidates would be delayed, or we may be unable to seek regulatory approval to commercialize our products at all.. Product candidates that appear promising in research and development may be delayed or may fail to reach later stages of clinical development.. The successful development of pharmaceutical product candidates is highly uncertain. Product candidates that appear promising in research and development and early clinical trials may be delayed or fail to reach later stages of development. Decisions regarding the further development of product candidates must be made with limited and incomplete data, which makes it difficult to ensure or even accurately predict whether the allocation of limited resources and the expenditure of additional capital on specific product candidates will result in desired outcomes. Preclinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways, and negative or inconclusive results or adverse events during a clinical trial could delay, limit or prevent the development of a product candidate.. A Fast Track designation by the FDA may not lead to a faster development, regulatory review or approval process.. If a product is intended for the treatment of a serious or life-threatening condition and the product demonstrates the potential to address unmet needs for this condition, the treatment sponsor may apply for FDA Fast Track designation. We were granted Fast Track designation for CLBS03 from the FDA in July 2016. However, Fast Track designation does not ensure that we will experience a faster development, regulatory review or approval process compared to conventional FDA procedures. Additionally, the FDA may withdraw Fast Track designation if it believes that the designation is no longer supported by data from the clinical development program.. Our clinical trials may fail to demonstrate adequately the safety and efficacy of our product candidates, which would prevent or delay regulatory approval and commercialization.. The clinical trials of our product candidates are, and the manufacturing and marketing of our products will be, subject to extensive and rigorous review and regulation by numerous government authorities in the United States and in other countries where we intend to test and market our product candidates. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any of our product candidates, we must demonstrate through lengthy, complex and expensive preclinical testing and clinical trials that our product candidates are both safe and effective for use in each target indication. In particular, because our product candidates are subject to regulation as biological drug products, we will need to demonstrate that they are safe, pure, and potent for use in their target indications. Each product candidate must demonstrate an adequate risk versus benefit profile in its intended patient population and for its intended use. The risk/benefit profile required for product licensure will vary depending on these factors and may include adequate duration of response, a delay in the progression of the disease, and/or an improvement in survival. For example, response rates from the use of our product candidates may not be sufficient to obtain regulatory approval unless we can also show an adequate duration of response.. Clinical testing is expensive and can take many years to complete, and its outcome is inherently uncertain. Failure can occur at any time during the clinical trial process. The results of preclinical studies and early clinical trials of our product candidates may not be predictive of the results of later-stage clinical trials. Exploratory trends and results observed in earlier stage clinical trials, particularly trends and results observed for small subsets that were not prespecified, may not be replicated in later stage clinical trials. Product candidates in Phase 3 clinical trials may fail to demonstrate sufficient efficacy despite having progressed through initial clinical trials, even if certain exploratory subset analyses of primary or secondary endpoints in those early trials showed trends toward efficacy or, in some analyses, nominal statistical significance. The results of clinical trials in one set of patients or line of treatment may not be predictive of those obtained in another.. We expect there may be greater variability in results for products processed and administered on a patient-by-patient basis, as anticipated for our product candidates, than for \"off-the-shelf\" products, like many other drugs. There is typically an extremely high rate of attrition from the failure of product candidates proceeding through clinical trials. Product candidates in later stages of clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy profile despite having progressed through preclinical studies and initial clinical trials. A number of companies in the biopharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials due to lack of efficacy or unacceptable safety issues, notwithstanding promising results in earlier trials. Most product candidates that begin clinical trials are never approved by regulatory authorities for commercialization.. Data from earlier studies conducted by the third-party research institutions such as UCSF/Yale for CLBS03 should not be relied upon as evidence that later or larger-scale clinical trials will succeed. Some future trials may have different patient populations than current studies and will test our product candidates in different indications, among other differences. In addition, our proposed manufacturing processes for our product candidates include what we believe will be process improvements that are not part of the production processes that were previously used in the earlier conducted clinical trials being conducted by the research institutions. Accordingly, our results with our product candidates may not be consistent with the results of the clinical trials.. In addition, even if such trials are successfully completed, we cannot guarantee that the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities will interpret the results as do we, and more trials could be required before we submit our product candidates for approval. To the. 19. Index. extent that the results of the trials are not satisfactory to the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities for support of a marketing application, we may be required to expend significant resources, which may not be available to us, to conduct additional trials in support of potential approval of our product candidates.. We presently lack sufficient manufacturing capabilities to produce our product candidates at commercial scale quantities and do not have an alternate manufacturing supply, which could negatively impact our ability to meet any future demand for the products.. We expect that HCATS will provide exclusively the cell processing services necessary for clinical production for our CLBS03 Phase 2 T1D trial and for our CLBS14 study. The Foundation for Biomedical Research and Innovation, a Japanese Corporation with its principal place of business in Kobe, Japan (\"FBRI\") will provide all cell processing services for the CLBS12 CLI trial. HCATS and FBRI also provide services and produce materials for clinical trials on behalf of unaffiliated third parties. To date, neither has produced any products at commercial scale quantities. We expect that HCATS and FBRI would need to expand significantly their manufacturing capabilities to meet potential commercial demand for CLBS03, CLBS12 and any other of our product candidates, if approved, as well as any of our other product candidates that might attain regulatory approval. Such expansion would require additional regulatory approvals. Even if they increase their manufacturing capabilities, it is possible that they may still lack sufficient capacity to meet demand. Ultimately, if we are unable to supply our products to meet commercial demand, whether because of processing constraints or other disruptions, delays or difficulties that we experience, sales of the products and their long term commercial prospects could be significantly damaged.. We do not presently have redundant suppliers for CLBS03, CLBS12 or any of our other product candidates. If our facilities where these product candidates are being manufactured or equipment were significantly damaged or destroyed, or if there were other disruptions, delays or difficulties affecting manufacturing capacity, our planned and future clinical trials and commercial production for these product candidates would likely be significantly disrupted and delayed. It would be both time consuming and expensive to replace this capacity with third parties, particularly since any new facility would need to comply with regulatory requirements.. Ultimately, if we are unable to supply our cell therapy product candidates to meet commercial demand, were commercial approval obtained, whether because of processing constraints or other disruptions, delays or difficulties that we experience, our production costs could dramatically increase and sales of the product and its long-term commercial prospects could be significantly damaged.. The commercial potential and profitability of our products are unknown and subject to significant risk and uncertainty.. Even if we successfully develop and obtain regulatory approval for our cell therapy product candidates, the market may not understand or accept the products, which could adversely affect both the timing and level of future sales. Ultimately, the degree of market acceptance of our product candidates (or any of our future product candidates) will depend on a number of factors, including:. • be subject to restrictions on how the product is distributed or used;. • our ability to distinguish our products (which involve adult cells) from any ethical and political controversies associated with stem cell products derived from human embryonic or fetal tissue; and. • the cost of the product, the reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors and our ability to obtain sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement.. Even if we are successful in achieving sales of our product candidates, it is not clear to what extent, if any, the products will be profitable. The costs of goods associated with production of cell therapy products are significant. While we are working to improve the speed and efficiency and lower the cost of our manufacturing processes, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in these efforts. In addition, some changes in manufacturing processes or procedures generally require FDA or foreign regulatory authority review and approval prior to implementation. We may need to conduct additional nonclinical studies and clinical trials to support approval of any such changes. Furthermore, this review process could be costly and time-consuming and could delay or prevent the commercialization of product candidates.. We may form or seek collaborations or strategic alliances or enter into additional licensing arrangements in the future, and we may not realize the benefits of such alliances or licensing arrangements.. We may form or seek strategic alliances, create joint ventures or collaborations, or enter into additional licensing arrangements with third parties that we believe are essential to product commercialization or will complement or augment our development and commercialization efforts with respect to our product candidates and any future product candidates that we may develop. Any of these relationships may require us to incur non-recurring and other charges, increase our near and long-term expenditures, issue securities that dilute the shares of our existing stockholders, or disrupt our management and business. In addition, we face significant competition in seeking appropriate strategic partners and the negotiation process is time-consuming and complex. Moreover, we may not be successful in our efforts to establish a strategic partnership or other alternative arrangements for our product candidates. 20. Index. because they may be deemed to be at too early of a stage of development for collaborative effort and third parties may not view our product candidates as having the requisite potential to demonstrate safety and efficacy.. Further, collaborations involving our product candidates, such as our collaborations with third-party research institutions, are subject to numerous risks, which may include the following:. • collaborators have significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that they will apply to a collaboration;. • collaborators may not pursue development and commercialization of our product candidates or may elect not to continue or renew development or commercialization programs based on clinical trial results, changes in their strategic focus due to the acquisition of competitive products, availability of funding, or other external factors, such as a business combination that diverts resources or creates competing priorities;. • collaborators may delay clinical trials, provide insufficient funding for a clinical trial, stop a clinical trial, abandon a product candidate, repeat or conduct new clinical trials, or require a new formulation of a product candidate for clinical testing;. • collaborators could independently develop, or develop with third parties, products that compete directly or indirectly with our products or product candidates;. • a collaborator with marketing and distribution rights to one or more products may not commit sufficient resources to their marketing and distribution;. • collaborators may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or may use our intellectual property or proprietary information in a way that gives rise to actual or threatened litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our intellectual property or proprietary information or expose us to potential liability;. • disputes may arise between us and a collaborator that cause the delay or termination of the research, development or commercialization of our product candidates, or that result in costly litigation or arbitration that diverts management attention and resources;. • collaborations may be terminated and, if terminated, may result in a need for additional capital to pursue further development or commercialization of the applicable product candidates; and. • collaborators may own or co-own intellectual property covering our products that results from our collaborating with them, and in such cases, we would not have the exclusive right to commercialize such intellectual property.. As a result, if we enter into collaboration agreements and strategic partnerships or license our products or businesses, we may not be able to realize the benefit of such transactions if we are unable to successfully integrate them with our existing operations and company culture, which could delay our timelines or otherwise adversely affect our business. We also cannot be certain that, following a strategic transaction or license, we will achieve the revenue or specific net income that justifies such transaction. Any delays in entering into new collaborations or strategic partnership agreements related to our product candidates could delay the development and commercialization of our product candidates in certain geographies for certain indications, which would harm our business prospects, financial condition, and results of operations.. We have limited experience in the development and marketing of cell therapies and may be unsuccessful in our efforts to establish a profitable business.. We have limited experience in the areas of cell therapy product development and marketing, and in the related regulatory issues and processes. Although we have recruited a team that has experience with designing and conducting clinical trials, as a company we have limited experience in conducting clinical trials and no experience in conducting clinical trials through to regulatory approval of any product candidate.  In part because of this lack of experience, we cannot be certain that ongoing or planned clinical trials will begin or be completed on time, if at all.. Our cell therapy business is based on novel technologies that are inherently expensive, risky and may not be understood by or accepted in the marketplace, which could adversely affect our future value.. The clinical development, commercialization and marketing of cell and tissue-based therapies are at an early-stage, substantially research-oriented and financially speculative. To date, very few companies have been successful in their efforts to develop and commercialize a cell therapy product. In general, cell-based or tissue-based products may be susceptible to various risks, including undesirable and unintended side effects, unintended immune system responses, inadequate therapeutic efficacy, or other characteristics that may prevent or limit their approval or commercial use. Regulatory approval of novel product candidates such as CLBS03, CLBS2 and CLBS14, which is manufactured using novel and proprietary manufacturing processes can be more complex and expensive and take longer than other, more well-known or extensively studied pharmaceutical or biopharmaceutical products, due to the FDA's lack of experience with them. To our knowledge, the FDA has only approved one personalized immunotherapy product to date. This lack of experience may lengthen the regulatory review process, require us to conduct additional. 21. Index. studies or clinical trials, which would increase our development costs, lead to changes in regulatory positions and interpretations, delay or prevent approval and commercialization of these product candidates or lead to significant post-approval limitations or restrictions. Furthermore, the number of people who may use cell or tissue-based therapies is difficult to forecast with accuracy. Our future success is dependent on the establishment of a large global market for cell- and tissue-based therapies and our ability to capture a share of this market with our product candidates.. If competitors develop and market products that are more effective, safer, or less expensive than our product candidates or offer other advantages, our commercial prospects will be limited.. Our cell therapy development programs now face, and will continue to face, intense competition from pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as numerous academic and research institutions and governmental agencies engaged in drug discovery activities or funding, both in the United States and abroad. Some of these competitors are pursuing the development of drugs and other therapies that target the same diseases and conditions that we are targeting with our product candidates.. Our T regulatory cell therapy product candidate for TID, CLBS03 faces competition from other immunomodulatory drugs being developed for other autoimmune diseases as well from other cellular therapies that fall outside of the coverage of our intellectual property.  Currently, there are no approved therapies for newly onset T1D, but only regimens such as insulin or adjuvants to insulin that address the disease when the pancreas can no longer produce insulin. While not a direct competitor, in a more advanced population of T1D, sotagliflozin, an oral adjunctive therapy to insulin, is expected to receive FDA approval following positive results from a pivotal phase 3 trial conducted by Lexicom Pharmaceuticals in collaboration with Sanofi and JDRF. There are multiple agents in development targeting the modification of the course of the disease. Current approaches in development can be broadly divided into immune modulatory agents aiming to improve metabolic function by rescuing insulin producing beta cells, or regenerative agents that are aiming to replace beta cells. From a broad review of these agents and approaches, no other therapy for new-onset T1D is expected to be in advanced clinical trials or provide direct competition to our polyclonal regulatory T cell platform in the near future. If these therapies are easier to manufacture and have similar or better safety and efficacy profiles to CLBS03, the commercial prospects of our T regulatory cell therapy may be limited.. As a general matter, we also face competition from many other companies that are researching and developing cell therapies. Many of these companies have financial and other resources substantially greater than ours. In addition, many of these competitors have significantly greater experience in testing pharmaceutical and other therapeutic products, obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals, and marketing and selling. If we ultimately obtain regulatory approval for any of our product candidates, we also will be competing with respect to manufacturing efficiency and marketing capabilities, areas in which we have limited or no commercial-scale experience. Mergers and acquisitions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries may result in resources being even more concentrated by our competitors. Competition may increase further as a result of advances made in the commercial applicability of our technologies and greater availability of capital for investment in these fields.. Our cell therapy product candidates for which we intend to seek approval as biologic products may face competition sooner than anticipated.. With the enactment of the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009, or BPCIA, an abbreviated pathway for the approval of biosimilar and interchangeable biological products was created. The abbreviated regulatory pathway establishes legal authority for the FDA to review and approve biosimilar biologics, including the possible designation of a biosimilar as \"interchangeable\" based on its similarity to an existing reference product. Under the BPCIA, an application for a biosimilar product cannot be approved by the FDA until 12 years after the original branded product is approved under a biologics license application, or BLA. The law is complex and is still being interpreted and implemented by the FDA. As a result, its ultimate impact, implementation, and meaning are subject to uncertainty. While it is uncertain when such processes intended to implement BPCIA may be fully adopted by the FDA, any such processes could have a material adverse effect on the future commercial prospects for our biological products.. There is a risk that the FDA will not consider any of our therapeutic candidates to be reference products for competing products, potentially creating the opportunity for generic competition sooner than anticipated. Additionally, this period of regulatory exclusivity does not apply to companies pursuing regulatory approval via their own traditional BLA, rather than via the abbreviated pathway. Moreover, the extent to which a biosimilar, once approved, will be substituted for any one of our reference products in a way that is similar to traditional generic substitution for non-biological products is not yet clear, and will depend on a number of marketplace and regulatory factors that are still developing.. We may be subject to significant product liability claims and litigation, including potential exposure from the use of our product candidates in human subjects, and our insurance may be inadequate to cover claims that may arise.. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks inherent in the testing, processing and marketing of cell therapy products. Such liability claims may be expensive to defend and result in large judgments against us. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our current and any future product candidates in human clinical trials and will. 22. Index. face an even greater risk with respect to any commercial sales of our products should they be approved. No product candidate has been widely used over an extended period of time, and therefore safety data is limited. Cell therapy companies derive the raw materials for manufacturing of product candidates from human cell sources, and therefore the manufacturing process and handling requirements are extensive, which increases the risk of quality failures and subsequent product liability claims. We presently have product liability insurance limited to $10 million per incident and $10 million in annual aggregate.. We will need to increase our insurance coverage when we begin commercializing product candidates, if ever. At that time, we may not be able to obtain or maintain product liability insurance on acceptable terms with adequate coverage or at all, or if claims against us substantially exceed our coverage, then our financial position could be significantly impaired.. Whether or not we are ultimately successful in any product liability litigation that may arise, such litigation could consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources, decreased demand for our products and injure our reputation.. We seek to maintain errors and omissions, directors and officers, workers' compensation and other insurance at levels we believe to be appropriate to our business activities. If, however, we were subject to a claim in excess of this coverage or to a claim not covered by our insurance and the claim succeeded, we would be required to pay the claim from our own limited resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business. Additionally, liability or alleged liability could harm our business by diverting the attention and resources of our management and damaging our reputation.. We may be unable to retain key officers or employees or hire new key officers or employees needed to implement our business strategy and develop our products and businesses.. Given the specialized nature of cell therapy and that it is a relatively new field, there is an inherent scarcity of experienced personnel in the field. We are substantially dependent on the skills and efforts of current senior management for their management and operations, as well as for the implementation of our business strategy. In addition, our future success depends upon our ability to attract and retain additional qualified personnel (including medical, scientific, technical, commercial, business and administrative personnel) necessary to support our anticipated growth, develop our business, perform our contractual obligations to third parties and maintain appropriate licensure. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting or retaining personnel required by us to continue to grow our operations. The loss of a key employee, the failure of a key employee to perform in his or her current position or our inability to attract and/or retain skilled employees, as needed, could result in our inability to continue to grow our business or to implement our business strategy, or may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. Our internal computer systems, or those used by our clinical investigators, clinical research organizations or other contractors or consultants, may fail or suffer security breaches, which could result in a material disruption of development programs for our product candidates.. We rely on information technology systems to keep financial records, maintain laboratory and corporate records, communicate with staff and external parties and operate other critical functions. Any significant insufficiency degradation or failure of these computer systems could cause us to inaccurately calculate or lose our data. Despite the implementation of security measures, these internal computer systems and those used by our clinical investigators, clinical research organizations, and other contractors and consultants are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war, and telecommunication and electrical failures. The techniques that could be used by criminal elements or foreign governments to attack these computer systems are sophisticated, change frequently and may originate from less regulated and remote areas of the world. While we have not experienced any such system failure, theft of information, accident or security breach to date, if such an event were to occur and cause interruptions in its operations, it could result in a material disruption of our clinical development activities. For example, the loss of clinical trial data from historical or future clinical trials could result in delays in regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase costs to recover or reproduce the data. To the extent that any disruption, theft of information, or security breach were to result in a loss of or damage to data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur liability and the clinical development and the future development of our product candidates could be delayed.. RISKS RELATED TO MANUFACTURING OUR DEVELOPMENT PRODUCT CANDIDATES. On March 16, 2017, we entered the Purchase Agreement to sell our remaining membership interest in PCT to Hitachi. As a result of that Sale we will no longer have any ownership interest in PCT. See \"Item 1. Business-Overview- Discontinued Operations\". Consequently, we have no internal capacity to manufacture our development product candidates and have no assurance that we will continue to have access to manufacturers in our industry that can effectively make our development products or make them at an affordable, saleable or otherwise commercially reasonable price or quantity.. Cell manufacturer's have a finite manufacturing capacity, which could inhibit the long-term growth prospects of our business.. 23. Index. We currently have manufacturing contracts to produce materials for our clinical trials with HCATS at its existing manufacturing facilities in Allendale, New Jersey and Mountain View, California as well as with FBRI at its manufacturing facility in Kobe, Japan. These facilities are intended and have been designed to be compliant with FDA cGMP, and cGTP requirements. While we believe these facilities provide us with sufficient capacity to meet our expected near-term needs, it is possible that the demand for our products could exceed their existing manufacturing capacity. We expect that as our own cell therapy development programs progress and demand for cell therapy services in the industry expand, it may become necessary or desirable for us to expand our manufacturing vendors for cell therapy services and products in the future, which may require us to invest significant amounts of capital and to obtain regulatory approvals. If HCATS or FBRI is unable to meet our rising demand for products and services on a timely basis or unable to maintain cGMP compliance standards, then it is likely that we will seek to obtain the products and services from competitors, the availability of which we cannot guarantee, and the progress of our own programs will be impaired which could materially and adversely affect the  overall success of our development programs.. Components of therapeutic products approved for commercial sale or used in late-stage clinical trials must be manufactured in accordance with cGMPs. Manufacturers of cell-based product candidates such as CLBS03 also must comply with cGTPs. In addition, manufacturers of therapeutic products may be required to modify their manufacturing processes from time to time in response to FDA requests. The manufacture of live cellular-based products is complex and imposes significant regulatory burdens that may change over time. We may encounter difficulties in the production of our product candidates due to our limited manufacturing experience.. We will need to improve manufacturing efficiency at our contract manufacturers in order to establish cost of goods levels that will permit approved products to succeed commercially.. HCAT is working to improve the efficiency of cell therapy product development through the development of engineering and innovation solutions that go beyond current practices to develop long-term solutions to the unique challenges of cell therapy manufacturing with the ultimate goal of improving scale up, cost of goods quality control and robustness of the manufacturing process. They cannot provide assurances that they will be able to develop process enhancements that are acceptable to the FDA, on a timely basis, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or that any expected improvement in profitability will be realized. If they are unsuccessful in their efforts to develop these improvements, we may be unable to develop commercially viable products, which would impair our ability to continue our operations.. Lack of access to safe, reliable and effective transportation options could adversely affect our ability to meet our needs.. To effectively and efficiently deliver our cell therapy product, we also need to establish and maintain cost-effective relationships with reliable and experienced transportation carriers. Most existing transportation carriers are not optimally designed for the transportation of cell therapy products. For example, these carriers generally lack a true point-to-point chain of control, may have non-controlled X-ray and inspection, do not guarantee package orientation, handling or storage conditions and, in many cases, lack a standard, documented and tracked operating procedures. While reliable ground carriers with experience in the transport of blood products exist in major U.S. metropolitan areas, air carriers meeting such needs are limited. If carriers we currently use should cease medical shipping operations or otherwise become unable to properly meet our transportation needs, the lack of access to safe, reliable and effective transportation options could adversely affect our ability to meet our needs.. RISKS RELATED TO THE SALE. We are subject to five-year non-competition and non-solicitation covenants under the Purchase Agreement, which may limit our ability to operate our business in certain respects or sell the Retained Business to a third party.. During the period from March 16, 2017 (the \"Effective Date\"), the date of the Purchase Agreement by and among us, PCT, LLC and Hitachi until the fifth anniversary of the Effective Date (the \"Non-Competition Period\"), we are subject to non-competition and non-solicitation covenants made in the Purchase Agreement. During the Non-Competition Period, we will be restricted from (i) engaging in the provision of service solutions for the contract research, development, manufacture, testing, storage, distribution and commercialization of cell based therapies (the \"Business\") and (ii) establishing any joint venture or other arrangement with a third party other than Hitachi America if such joint venture or other arrangement would compete with PCT or Hitachi America in any aspect of the Business, subject to certain exceptions, and from soliciting for employment persons who are employees or consultants of PCT or Hitachi America and their affiliates that are controlled by Hitachi America.. These limitations may negatively impact the scope and/or volume of our business, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, certain third party acquirers of our current business would be subject to these limitations during the Non-Competition Period, which may limit our opportunities with respect to a future sale transaction of our current business during the Non-Competition Period that may otherwise be favorable to our stockholders.. PCT may not achieve the milestone under the Purchase Agreement, which would result in us not receiving the milestone payment.. 24. Index. Pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, Hitachi will pay us a $5.0 million milestone payment if PCT achieves $125 million in cumulative revenue (excluding clinical service reimbursables) for the period from January 1, 2017 through December 31, 2018. PCT's revenue would have to increase significantly to achieve the milestone. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will receive the $5.0 million milestone payment contemplated by the Purchase Agreement.. We are obligated to indemnify Hitachi America for certain losses resulting from breaches of the representation and warranties and covenants in the Purchase Agreement as well as for certain litigation relating to the Sale.. Under the terms of the Purchase Agreement, we are obligated to indemnify Hitachi America for certain losses resulting from breaches of the representations and warranties and covenants in the Purchase Agreement as well as certain litigation relating to the Sale. Upon closing of the Sale, $5.0 million of the purchase price was paid into an escrow fund to be used as partial security to cover any liabilities that may result from indemnification claims that Hitachi America may have pursuant to the Purchase Agreement. Moreover, in certain instances, our liability to Hitachi America for indemnification claims could be higher than the $5 million set aside in the escrow fund. Any and all such liability would reduce the net proceeds from the Sale that are available for our use.. We may be exposed to litigation related to the Sale from the holders of our stock.. Transactions such as the Sale are often subject to lawsuits by stockholders. Because the holders of our stock did not receive any consideration from the Sale, it is possible that they may sue us or our board of directors. Such lawsuits could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business.. RISKS RELATED TO GOVERNMENT REGULATION. The development and commercialization of our product candidates is subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States and abroad, and the failure to receive regulatory approvals for our cell therapy product candidates would likely have a material and adverse effect on our business and prospect. To date, we have not received regulatory approval to market any of our product candidates in any jurisdiction. If we seek approval of any of our cell therapy product candidates, we will be required to submit to FDA and European and potentially other regulatory authorities extensive preclinical and clinical data supporting the safety and efficacy of such products, as well as information about the manufacturing process and to undergo inspection of manufacturing facilities, among other things. The process of obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals is expensive, typically takes many years and is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, particularly with complex and/or novel product candidates such as our cell-based product candidates. Changes in regulatory approval policies during the development period, changes in or the enactment of additional statutes or regulations, or changes in regulatory review for each submitted product application, may cause delays in the approval or rejection of an application or may make it easier for our competitors to gain regulatory approval to enter the marketplace. Ultimately, the FDA and other regulatory agencies have substantial discretion in the approval process and may refuse to accept any application or may decide that our product candidate data are insufficient for approval without the submission of additional preclinical, clinical or other time-consuming studies. In addition, varying agency interpretations of the data obtained from preclinical and clinical testing could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval of a product candidate. Any regulatory approval we ultimately obtain may be limited or subject to restrictions or post-approval commitments that render the approved product not commercially viable. Any of the following factors, among others, could cause regulatory approval for our product candidates to be delayed, limited or denied:. • the product candidates require significant clinical testing to demonstrate safety and effectiveness before applications for marketing approval can be submitted to the FDA and other regulatory authorities;. • data obtained from animal testing and other nonclinical testing and clinical trials can be interpreted in different ways, and regulatory authorities may not agree with our respective interpretations or may require us to conduct additional testing. • negative or inconclusive results or the occurrence of serious or unexpected adverse events during a clinical trial could cause us to delay or terminate development efforts for a product candidate; and/or. • the FDA and other regulatory authorities may require expansion of the size and scope of the clinical trials.. Any difficulties or failures that we encounter in securing regulatory approval for our product candidates would likely have a substantial adverse impact on our ability to generate product sales and could make any search for a collaborative partner more difficult.. We may be unsuccessful in our efforts to comply with applicable federal, state and international laws and regulations, which could result in loss of licensure, certification or accreditation or other government enforcement actions or impact our ability to secure regulatory approval of our product candidates.. 25. Index. Although we seek to conduct our business in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, these laws and regulations are exceedingly complex and often subject to varying interpretations. The cell therapy industry is the topic of significant government interest, and thus the laws and regulations applicable to our business are subject to frequent change and/or reinterpretation. As such, there can be no assurance that we will be able, or will have the resources, to maintain compliance with all such healthcare laws and regulations. Failure to comply with such healthcare laws and regulations could result in significant enforcement actions, civil or criminal penalties, which along with the costs associated with such compliance or with enforcement of such healthcare laws and regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our operations or may require restructuring of our operations or impair our ability to operate profitably.. Facilities engaged in the recovery, processing, storage, labeling, packaging or distribution of any HCT/Ps, or the screening or testing of a donor, are required to register with the FDA. Any third party retained by us to process our samples must be similarly registered with the FDA and comply with HCT/P regulations as well as with FDA's cGTP regulations. If they fail to comply with cGTP requirements they will be out of compliance with FDA regulations which could adversely affect our business.. FDA's cGMP regulations govern the manufacture, processing, packaging and holding of cell therapy products regulated as drugs. FDA's Quality System Regulation, (\"QSR\"), similarly governs the manufacture, processing, packaging and holding of cell therapy products regulated as medical devices. Any third-party manufacturers that prepare our products must comply with cGMP or QSR requirements including quality control, quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation for certain products. They may be unable to comply with these cGMP or QSR requirements and with other FDA, state and foreign regulatory requirements. These requirements may change over time and we or third-party manufacturers may be unable to comply with the revised requirements.. If we are unable to conduct clinical trials in accordance with regulations and accepted standards, we may be delayed in receiving, or may never receive, regulatory approvals of our product candidates from the FDA and other regulatory authorities.. To obtain marketing approvals for our product candidates in the United States and abroad, we must, among other requirements, complete adequate and well-controlled clinical trials sufficient to demonstrate to the FDA and other regulatory bodies that the product candidate is safe and effective for each indication for which approval is sought. If the FDA finds that patients enrolled in the trial are or would be exposed to an unreasonable and significant risk of illness or injury, due to, among other things, occurrence of one or more serious adverse events in an ongoing clinical trial, the FDA can place one or more of our clinical trials on partial or full clinical hold. If safety concerns develop, we may, or the FDA, a foreign regulatory authority, or an IRB may require us to, stop the affected trials before completion.. The completion of our clinical trials also may be delayed or terminated for a number of other reasons, including if:. • third-party clinical investigators do not perform the clinical trials on the anticipated schedule or consistent with the clinical trial protocol, good clinical practices required by the FDA and other regulatory requirements, or other third parties do not perform data collection and analysis in a timely or accurate manner;. • inspections of clinical trial sites by the FDA or by IRBs of research institutions participating in the clinical trials, reveal regulatory violations that require the sponsor of the trial to undertake corrective action, suspend or terminate one or more sites, or prohibit use of some or all of the data in support of marketing applications; or. • the FDA or one or more IRBs suspends or terminates the trial at an investigational site, or precludes enrollment of additional subjects.. Our development costs will increase if there are material delays in our clinical trials, or if we are required to modify, suspend, terminate or repeat a clinical trial. If we are unable to conduct our clinical trials properly, we may never receive regulatory approval to market our product candidates.. We will continue to be subject to extensive FDA regulation following any product approvals, and if we fail to comply with these regulations, we may suffer a significant setback in our business.. Even if we are successful in obtaining regulatory approval of our product candidates, we will continue to be subject to the requirements of and review by, the FDA and comparable regulatory authorities in the areas of manufacturing processes, quality assurance, post-approval clinical data, adverse event reporting, labeling, advertising and promotional activities, among other things. In addition, any marketing approval we receive may be limited in terms of the approved product indication or require costly post-marketing testing and surveillance. Discovery after approval of previously unknown problems with a product, manufacturer or manufacturing process, or a failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in actions such as:. • warning letters or untitled letters or other actions requiring changes in product manufacturing processes or restrictions on product marketing or distribution;. • product recalls or seizures or the temporary or permanent withdrawal of a product from the market; and. • fines, restitution or disgorgement of profits or revenue, the imposition of civil penalties or criminal prosecution.. 26. Index. The occurrence of any of these actions would likely cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Additionally, if we or others identify undesirable side effects, or other previously unknown problems, caused by our product candidates after obtaining U.S. or foreign regulatory approval or other products with the same or related active ingredients, a number of potentially consequences could result, including:. • regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product;. • regulatory authorities may require a recall of the product or we may voluntarily recall a product;. • regulatory authorities may require the addition of warnings or contradictions in the product labeling, narrowing of the indication in the product label or issuance of field alerts to physicians and pharmacies;. • we may be required to create a medication guide outlining the risks of such side effects for distribution to patients or institute a REMS;. • we may be subject to limitation as to how we promote the product;. • we may be required to change the way the product is administered or modify the product in some other way;. • the FDA or applicable foreign regulatory authority may require additional clinical trials or costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product;. • sales of the product may decrease significantly;. • we could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients; and. • our brand and reputation may suffer. Health care companies have been the subject of federal and state investigations, and we could become subject to investigations in the future.. Both federal and state government agencies have heightened civil and criminal enforcement efforts. There are numerous ongoing investigations of health care companies, including drug, biologic an medical device companies, as well as their executives and managers. In addition, amendments to the Federal False Claims Act, including under healthcare reform, have made it easier for private parties to bring \"qui tam\" (whistleblower) lawsuits against companies under which the whistleblower may be entitled to receive a percentage of any money paid to the government. The Federal False Claims Act provides, in part, that an action can be brought against any person or entity that has knowingly presented, or caused to be presented, a false or fraudulent request for payment from the federal government, or who has made a false statement or used a false record to get a claim approved. The government has taken the position that claims presented in violation of the federal anti-kickback law, Stark Law or other healthcare-related laws, including laws enforced by the FDA, may be considered a violation of the Federal False Claims Act. Penalties include substantial fines for each false claim, plus three times the amount of damages that the federal government sustained because of the act of that person or entity and/or exclusion from the Medicare program. In addition, a majority of states have adopted similar state whistleblower and false claims provisions.. We are not aware of any government investigations involving any of our facilities or management. While we believe that we are in material compliance with applicable governmental healthcare laws and regulations, any future investigations of our business or executives could cause us to incur substantial costs, and result in significant liabilities or penalties, as well as damage to our reputation.. It is uncertain to what extent the government, private health insurers and third-party payors will approve coverage or provide reimbursement for the therapies and products to which our services relate. Availability for such reimbursement may be further limited by an increasing uninsured population and reductions in Medicare and Medicaid funding in the United States.. To the extent that health care providers cannot obtain coverage or reimbursement for our therapies and products, they may elect not to provide such therapies and products to their patients and, thus, may not need our services. Further, as cost containment pressures are increasing in the health care industry, government and private payors may adopt strategies designed to limit the amount of reimbursement paid to health care providers.. Similarly, the trend toward managed health care and bundled pricing for health care services in the United States, could significantly influence the purchase of healthcare services and products, resulting in lower prices and reduced demand for our therapeutic products under development.. We may receive a portion of our revenues from services rendered to patients enrolled in federal health care programs, such as Medicare, and we may also directly or indirectly receive revenues from federal health care programs. Federal health care programs are subject to changes in coverage and reimbursement rules and procedures, including retroactive rate adjustments. These contingencies could materially decrease the range of services covered by such programs or the reimbursement rates paid. 27. Index. directly or indirectly for our products and services. To the extent that any health care reform favors the reimbursement of other therapies over our therapeutic products under development, such reform could affect our ability to sell our services, which may have a material adverse effect on our revenues.. The limitation on reimbursement available from private and government payors may reduce the demand for, or the price of, our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues. Additional legislation or regulation relating to the health care industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future which could adversely affect the revenues generated from the sale of our products and services.. Furthermore, there has been a trend in recent years towards reductions in overall funding for Medicare and Medicaid. There has also been an increase in the number of people who do not have any form of health care coverage in recent years and who are not eligible for or enrolled in Medicare, Medicaid or other governmental programs. The extent to which the reforms brought about under healthcare reform may be successful in reducing the number of such uninsured is unclear, and the reduced funding of governmental programs and increase in uninsured populations could have a negative impact on the demand for our services to the extent they relate to products and services which are reimbursed by government and private payors.. Unintended consequences of healthcare reform legislation in the U.S. may adversely affect our business.. The healthcare industry is undergoing fundamental changes resulting from political, economic and regulatory influences. In the U.S., comprehensive programs are under consideration that seek to, among other things, increase access to healthcare for the uninsured and control the escalation of healthcare expenditures within the economy. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (\"PPACA\"), as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, or the Affordable Care Act, was passed, which substantially changes the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers, and significantly impacts the U.S. pharmaceutical industry. While we do not believe this legislation will have a direct impact on our business, the legislation requires the adoption of implementing regulations, which may have unintended consequences or indirectly impact our business. For instance, the scope and implications of the amendments pursuant to the Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act of 2009 (\"FERA\"), have yet to be fully determined or adjudicated and as a result it is difficult to predict how future enforcement initiatives may impact our business. Also, in some instances our clients may be health insurers that will be subject to limitations on their administrative expenses and federal review of \"unreasonable\" rate increases that could impact the prices they pay for our services. If the legislation causes such unintended consequences or indirect impact, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the PPACA was enacted. On August 2, 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011 was signed into law, which, among other things, creates the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to recommend proposals in spending reductions to Congress. The Joint Select Committee did not achieve a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, triggering the legislation's automatic reduction to several government programs. This included aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect on April 1, 2013. On January 2, 2013, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 was signed into law, which, among other things, further reduced Medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years.  Strong, partisan disagreement in Congress has prevented implementation of various PPACA provisions, and the Trump Administration has made repeal of the PPACA a priority.  One of the first executive orders of the Trump administration granted federal agencies broad powers to unwind regulations under the PPACA. On January 11, 2017, the Senate voted to approve a \"budget blueprint\" allowing Republicans to repeal parts of the law while avoiding Democrat filibuster.  The \"Obamacare Repeal Resolution\" passed 51-48.  Certain legislators are continuing their efforts to repeal the PPACA, although there is little clarity on how such a repeal would be implemented and what a PPACA replacement might look like.  For the immediate future, there is significant uncertainty regarding the health care, health care coverage and health care insurance markets.. The U.S. government has in the past considered, is currently considering and may in the future consider healthcare policies and proposals intended to curb rising healthcare costs, including those that could significantly affect both private and public reimbursement for healthcare services. State and local governments, as well as a number of foreign governments, are also considering or have adopted similar types of policies. Future significant changes in the healthcare systems in the United States or elsewhere, and current uncertainty about whether and how changes may be implemented, could have a negative impact on the demand for our products. We are unable to predict whether other healthcare policies, including policies stemming from legislation or regulations affecting our business, may be proposed or enacted in the future; what effect such policies would have on our business; or the effect ongoing uncertainty about these matters will have on the purchasing decisions of our customers.. We expect that additional state and federal healthcare reform measures will be adopted in the future, any of which could limit the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for healthcare products and services, which could result in reduced demand for our products or additional pricing pressures.. 28. Index. Competitor companies or hospitals may be able to take advantage of EU rules permitting sales of unlicensed medicines for individual patients to sell competing products without a marketing authorization.. The EU medicines rules allow individual member states to permit the supply of a medicinal product without a marketing authorization to fulfill special needs, where the product is supplied in response to a bona fide unsolicited order, formulated in accordance with the specifications of a healthcare professional and for use by an individual patient under his direct personal responsibility.  This may in certain countries also apply to products manufactured in a country outside the EU and imported to treat specific patients or small groups of patients.  In addition, advanced therapy medicinal products do not need a marketing authorization if they are prepared on a non-routine basis and are used within the same EU member state in a hospital in accordance with a medical prescription for an individual patient.. These exemptions could allow our competitors to make sales in the EU without having obtained a marketing authorization and without undergoing the expense of clinical trials, especially if those competitors have cell processing facilities in the relevant EU member state.  Similarly, certain hospitals may be able to compete with us on the basis of these rules.  Because any such sales would be made without a marketing authorization, there would be no need for the competitor company or hospital to refer to the clinical data in our marketing authorization dossiers, and so any data exclusivity protection that we may obtain for our products would not prevent such competing sales.. A variety of risks associated with operating our business internationally could materially adversely affect our business.. We plan to seek regulatory approval of our product candidates outside of the United States and, accordingly, we expect that we, and any potential collaborators in those jurisdictions, will be subject to additional risks related to operating in foreign countries, including:. • differing regulatory requirements in foreign countries;. • unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers, price and exchange controls, and other regulatory requirements;. • economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets;. • compliance with tax, employment, immigration, and labor laws for employees living or traveling abroad;. • foreign taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes;. • foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses and reduced revenue, and other obligations incident to doing business in another country;. • difficulties staffing and managing foreign operations;. • workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the United States;. • potential liability under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 or comparable foreign laws;. • challenges enforcing our contractual and intellectual property rights, especially in those foreign countries that do not respect and protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States;. • production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; and. • business interruptions resulting from geo-political actions, including war and terrorism.. These and other risks associated with our planned international operations may materially adversely affect our ability to attain or maintain profitable operations.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY. We may be unable to obtain or maintain patent protection for our products and product candidates, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our commercial success will depend, in part, on obtaining and maintaining patent protection for new technologies, product candidates, products and processes and successfully defending such patents against third party challenges. To that end, we file patent applications, and have been issued patents, that are intended to cover certain methods and uses of stem cells as well as compositions and methods relating to T regulatory cells and hematopoietic stem cells. These patent applications may never result in the issuance of patents.. The patent positions of biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions and recent court decisions have introduced significant uncertainty regarding the strength of patents in the industry. Moreover, the legal systems of some foreign countries do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patents and may not protect our. 29. Index. intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Any of the issued patents we own or license may be challenged by third parties and held to be invalid, unenforceable or with a narrower or different scope of coverage that what we currently believe, effectively reducing or eliminating protection we believed we had against competitors with similar products or technologies. If we ultimately engage in and lose any such patent disputes, we could be subject to competition and/or significant liabilities, we could be required to enter into third-party licenses or we could be required to cease using the disputed technology or product. In addition, even if such licenses are available, the terms of any license requested by a third party could be unacceptable or unaffordable to us.. Product development and approval timelines in the biotechnology industry are very lengthy. As such, it is possible that any patents that may cover an approved product may have expired at the time of commercialization or only have a short remaining period of exclusivity, thereby reducing the commercial advantages of the patent. In such case, we would then rely solely on other forms of exclusivity, such as regulatory exclusivity provided by the FDC Act, which may provide less protection to our competitive position.. Litigation relating to intellectual property is expensive, time consuming and uncertain, and we may be unsuccessful in our efforts to protect against infringement by third parties or defend ourselves against claims of infringement.. To protect our intellectual property, we may initiate litigation or other proceedings. In general, intellectual property litigation is costly, time-consuming, diverts the attention of management and technical personnel and could result in substantial uncertainty regarding our future viability, even if we ultimately prevail. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or other proceedings more effectively than can we because of their substantially greater financial resources. The loss or narrowing of our intellectual property protection, the inability to secure or enforce our intellectual property rights or a finding that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of a third party could limit our ability to develop or market our products and services in the future or adversely affect our revenues. Furthermore, any public announcements related to such litigation or regulatory proceedings could adversely affect the price of our common stock.. Third parties may allege that the research, development and commercialization activities we conduct infringe patents or other proprietary rights owned by such parties. While we do not believe any of our current activities infringe the rights of others, we have not conducted an exhaustive search or analysis of third-party patent rights to determine whether our pre-clinical or clinical research and development or activities may infringe or be alleged to infringe any third-party patent rights. If we are found to have infringed the patents of a third party, we may be required to pay substantial damages; we also may be required to seek from such party a license, which may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, to continue our activities. A judicial finding or infringement or the failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from commercializing our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. If we are unable to maintain our licenses, patents or other intellectual property we could lose important protections that are material to continuing our operations and our future prospects.. To obtain and maintain patent protection and licensing rights under certain of our license agreement, we must, among other things, ensure the timely payment of all applicable filing and maintenance fees. Any failure to do so could result in the loss of some or all of our rights to proprietary technology or the inability to secure or enforce intellectual property protection.. Additionally, our license agreements require us to meet certain diligence obligations in the development of the licensed products. Our failure to meet these diligence obligations could result in the loss of some or all of our rights, which could materially and adversely affect our business and future prospects.. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of trade secrets, our competitive position could be impaired.. A significant amount of our technology, especially regarding manufacturing processes, is unpatented and is maintained as trade secrets and /or know-how. We expend significant energy, resources and know-how in an effort to protect these trade secrets and know-how, including through the use of confidentiality agreement. Even so, improper use or disclosure of our confidential information could occur and in such case adequate remedies may not exist. The disclosure of trade secrets and know-how could impair our competitive position.. In certain countries, patent holders may be required to grant compulsory licenses, which would likely have a significant and detrimental effect on any future revenues in such country.. Many countries, including some countries in Europe, have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses to third parties. In addition, most countries limit the enforceability of patents against government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, the patent owner may be limited to monetary relief and may be unable to enjoin infringement, which could materially diminish the value of the patent. Compulsory licensing of life-saving products is also becoming increasingly common in developing countries, either through direct legislation or international initiatives. Such compulsory licenses could be extended to our product candidates, which may limit our potential revenue opportunities, including with respect to any future revenues that may result from our product candidates.. 30. Index. Changes to U.S. patent law may have a material adverse effect on our intellectual property rights.. The Leahy-Smith America Invents Act (AIA), which was signed into law on September 16, 2011, significantly changed United States patent law. It may take some time to establish what the law means, since it is just being interpreted by the lower courts, and any lower court decisions have not been reviewed by either the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals or the Supreme Court, a process that will take years. The first major change is that AIA switches the U.S. patent system from a \"first to invent\" system to a \"first to file\" system. Now that the first to file system is in effect, there is a risk that another company may independently develop identical or similar patents at approximately the same time, and be awarded the patents instead of us. Further, for the second major change, AIA abolished interference proceedings, and establishes derivation proceedings to replace interference proceedings in all cases in which the time period for instituting an interference proceeding has not lapsed where an inventor named in an earlier application derived the claimed invention from a named inventor. Now that the derivation proceedings are in effect, there is a risk that the inventorship of any pending patent application can be challenged for reasons of derivation. The third major change is that AIA established post-grant opposition proceedings that will apply only to patent applications filed after \"first to file\" became effective. Post-grant opposition will enable a person who is not the patent owner to initiate proceedings in the Patent office within 9 months after the grant of a patent that can result in cancellation of a patent as invalid. There is a risk, therefore, that any of our patents once granted after the effective date of these provisions of the AIA (March 16, 2013) may be subject to post-grant opposition, which will increase uncertainty on the validity of any newly granted patent or may ultimately result in cancellation of the patent.. Third-party claims of intellectual property infringement may prevent or delay our development and commercialization efforts.. Our commercial success depends in part on our avoiding infringement of the patents, trademarks and proprietary rights of third parties. There have been many lawsuits and other proceedings involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, including patent infringement lawsuits, interferences, oppositions, and reexamination proceedings before the USPTO and corresponding foreign patent offices and trademark violations. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields in which we are developing products and services. As the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries expand and more patents are issued, the risk increases that our products and services may be subject to claims of infringement of the patent rights of third parties.. Third parties may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. There may be third-party patents or patent applications with claims to devices, materials, formulations, methods of manufacture, or methods for treatment related to the use or manufacture of our products and services. We have conducted freedom to operate analyses with respect to only certain of our products and services, and therefore we do not know whether there are any third-party patents that would impair our ability to commercialize these products and services. We also cannot guarantee that any of our analyses are complete and thorough, nor can we be sure that we have identified each and every patent and pending application in the United States and abroad that is relevant or necessary to the commercialization of our products and services. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending patent applications that may later result in issued patents that our products or services may infringe.. In addition, third parties may obtain patents in the future and claim that use of our technologies infringes upon these patents. If any third-party patents were held by a court of competent jurisdiction to cover aspects of our products or services, the holders of any such patents may be able to block our ability to commercialize such products or services unless we obtained a license under the applicable patents, or until such patents expire or are finally determined to be invalid or unenforceable. Such a license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all.. Parties making claims against us may obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability to further develop and commercialize one or more of our products or services. Defense of these claims, regardless of their merit, would involve substantial litigation expense and would be a substantial diversion of employee resources from our business. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages and attorneys' fees for willful infringement, pay royalties, redesign our infringing products or obtain one or more licenses from third parties, which may be impossible or require substantial time and monetary expenditure.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CAPITAL STOCK. Our stock price has been, and will likely continue to be, highly volatile.. The market price of our common stock has been and in the future may continue to be highly volatile. For example, from January 1, 2017 through March 20, 2018 our common stock traded as low as $2.63 per share and as high as $7.79 per share; in 2016, our common stock traded as low as $2.65 per share and as high as $13.30 per share.. The market price for our common stock is highly dependent on, among other things, stock market conditions in general, our clinical development efforts the profitability and growth of our cell therapy services business and the growth of our business in general, the amount of our available cash and investments and our level of cash utilization. Future events could increase the. 31. Index. volatility seen in our common stock and ultimately cause a significant decline in the price of our common stock and ultimately impact our ability to raise additional capital in the future. These events could include the following, among others:. • low levels of trading volume for our shares;. • capital-raising or other transactions that are, or may in the future be, dilutive to existing stockholders or that involve the issuance of debt securities;. • delays in our clinical trials, negative clinical trial results or adverse regulatory decisions relating to our product candidates;. • adverse fluctuations in our revenues or operating results or financial results that otherwise fall below the market's expectations;. • disappointing developments concerning our cell therapy services clients or other collaborators for our product candidates; and. • legal challenges, disputes and/or other adverse developments impacting our patents or other proprietary rights that protect our products.. In addition, broader external events, such as news concerning economic or market conditions in the general economy or within our industry, the activities of our competitors, changes (or the threat of changes) in U.S. or foreign government regulations impacting the life sciences industry or the movement of capital into or out of our industry, are likely to affect the price of our common stock. There can be no assurance that the market price of our common stock will not continue to fluctuate or decline significantly in the future.. In addition to potential dilution associated with future fundraising transactions, we currently have significant numbers of securities outstanding that are exercisable for our common stock, which could result in significant additional dilution and downward pressure on our stock price.. As of December 31, 2017, there were 9,483,911 shares of our common stock outstanding. In addition, there were outstanding stock options and warrants representing the potential issuance of an additional 1,254,407 shares of our common stock. The issuance of these shares in the future would result in significant dilution to our current stockholders and could adversely affect the price of our common stock and the terms on which we could raise additional capital. In addition, the issuance and subsequent trading of shares could cause the supply of our common stock available for purchase in the market to exceed the purchase demand for our common stock. Such supply in excess of demand could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. Sales of our common stock pursuant to our at-the-market sales agreement with H.C. Wainwright & Co., may cause substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and the sale of such shares of common stock could cause the price of our common stock to decline.. We entered into a Common Stock Sales Agreement with H.C. Wainwright & Co. in February 2018, pursuant to which we may sell up to $12 million of shares of our common stock over the term of that agreement, subject to certain terms and conditions.. Sales by us pursuant to the sales agreement may result in substantial dilution to the interests of other holders of our common stock. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or anticipation of such sales, could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at a price that we might otherwise wish to effect sales. However, we have the right to control the timing and amount of any sales of our shares under the sales agreement and may be terminated by us at any time at our discretion without any cost to us.. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover of us, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock and could entrench management.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that stockholders may consider to be in their best interests. Our board of directors is divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. As a result, at a given annual meeting only a minority of the board of directors may be considered for election. Since our staggered board of directors may prevent our stockholders from replacing a majority of our board of directors at any given annual meeting, it may entrench management and discourage unsolicited stockholder proposals that may be in the best interests of stockholders. Moreover, our board of directors has the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval.. We are also subject to anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law, which could delay or prevent a change of control. Together, these provisions may make more difficult the removal of management and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our securities.. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price.. 32. Index. During the course of testing our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we may identify and disclose material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting that will have to be remedied. Implementing any appropriate changes to our internal control may require specific compliance training of our directors, officers and employees, entail substantial costs to modify our existing accounting systems, and take a significant period of time to complete. Such changes may not, however, be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, and any failure to maintain that adequacy or inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis could result in our financial statements being unreliable, increase our operating costs and materially impair our ability to operate our business.. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Additionally, failure to maintain effective internal control over our financial reporting could result in government investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities.. We have already, and could again in the future, fail to comply with the continued listing requirements of the Nasdaq Capital Market, such that our common stock may be delisted and the price of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets could be negatively impacted.. Our common stock is listed for trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market. We must satisfy Nasdaq's continued listing requirements, including, among other things, a minimum closing bid price requirement of $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days. If a company trades for 30 consecutive business days below the $1.00 minimum closing bid price requirement, Nasdaq will send a deficiency notice to the company, advising that it has been afforded a \"compliance period\" of 180 calendar days to regain compliance with the applicable requirements. Thereafter, if such a company does not regain compliance with the bid price requirement, a second 180-day compliance period may be available. In February 2016, we received such a deficiency notice from the Nasdaq informing us that our stock had traded under $1.00 for thirty (30) consecutive trading days, and that if it does not trade at or above $1.00 for ten (10) consecutive trading days during the next 180 days, our common stock would be delisted absent meeting other conditions for delaying delisting. On July 28, 2016, the Company effected a one-for-ten reverse stock split of its issued and outstanding shares of common stock to increase the per share trading price of our common stock to satisfy the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement. By letter dated August 11, 2016, The Nasdaq Capital Market, Listing Qualification Department, confirmed that our common stock was in compliance with listing requirements.. A delisting of our common stock from Nasdaq could materially reduce the liquidity of our common stock and result in a corresponding material reduction in the price of our common stock. In addition, delisting could harm our ability to raise capital through alternative financing sources on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and may result in the potential loss of confidence by investors, employees and fewer business development opportunities."
