[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business. We are subject to increasing competition that may adversely affect our operating results.. The market for avocados and processed avocado products is highly competitive and affects each of our businesses.  Each of our businesses is subject to competitive pressures, including the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe market for California avocados is impacted by an increasing volume of foreign grown avocados being imported into the United States.  Recently, there have been significant plantings of avocados in Mexico, Chile, the Dominican Republic, Peru, Colombia and other parts of the world, which have had, and will continue to have, the effect of increasing the volume of foreign grown avocados entering the United States market..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tAvocados are subject to competition from other avocado handlers.  If we are unable to consistently pay growers a competitive price for their avocados, these growers may choose to have their avocados marketed by alternate handlers..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tMexican sourced avocados and perishable food products are impacted by competitors operating in Mexico.  Generally, handlers of Mexican grown avocados operate facilities that are substantially smaller than our facility in Uruapan, Mexico.  If we are unable to pack and market a sufficient volume of Mexican grown avocados, smaller handlers will have a lower per unit cost and be able to offer Mexican avocados at a more competitive price to our customers.. We rely on co-packers for a portion of our manufacturing needs.. We utilize high-quality co-packers to produce a portion of our retail and foodservice products.  If we are unable to utilize quality co-packers effectively, we may not be able to meet our manufacturing needs for our expected growth. We closely monitor and audit the quality of our co-packers; and furthermore, our co-packers are required to maintain insurance.  But we are still subject to risks related to the production or processed foods.. Environmental and other regulation of our business, including potential climate change regulation, could adversely impact us by increasing our production cost or restricting our ability to import certain products into the United States.. 8. There has been a broad range of proposed and promulgated state, national and international regulation aimed at reducing the effects of climate change. Such regulations apply or could apply in countries where we have interests or could have interests in the future. In the United States, there is a significant possibility that some form of regulation will be enacted at the federal level to address the effects of climate change. Such regulation could take several forms that could result in additional costs in the form of taxes, the restriction of output, investments of capital to maintain compliance with laws and regulations, or required acquisition or trading of emission allowances. Climate change regulation continues to evolve, and while it is not possible to accurately estimate either a timetable for implementation or our future compliance costs relating to implementation, we do not believe that such regulation is reasonably likely to have a material effect in the foreseeable future on our business, results of operations, capital expenditures or financial position.. We could be subject to changes in tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities.. We are subject to taxes in the U.S. and Mexico. Due to economic and political conditions, tax rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. Our effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation.. We are also subject to the examination of our tax returns and other tax matters by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for taxes. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. If our effective tax rates were to increase, or if the ultimate determination of our taxes owed is for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued, our financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected.. We are subject to the risks of doing business internationally.. We conduct a substantial amount of business with growers and customers who are located outside the United States.  We purchase avocados from foreign growers and packers, sell fresh avocados and processed avocado products to foreign customers, and operate a packinghouse and a processing plant in Mexico.  In the most recent years, there has been an increase in organized crime in Mexico.  This has not had a significant impact on our operations, but this does increase the risk of doing business in Mexico.   We are also subject to regulations imposed by the Mexican government, and also to examinations by the Mexican tax authorities.  Significant changes to these government regulations and to assessments by the Mexican tax authorities can have a negative impact on our operations and operating results in Mexico.  For additional information about our Mexican sourced fruit, see the \"Business\" section included in this Annual Report.. Our current international operations are subject to a number of inherent risks, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tLocal economic and political conditions, including disruptions in supply, trading and capital markets;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tRestrictive US and foreign governmental actions, such as restrictions on transfers of funds and trade protection measures, including import/export duties and quotas and customs duties and tariffs; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tChanges in legal or regulatory requirements affecting foreign investment, loans, taxes (including value-added taxes), imports, and exports.. Currency exchange fluctuations may impact the results of our operations.. Currency exchange rate fluctuations, depending upon the nature of the changes, may make our domestic-sourced products more expensive compared to foreign grown products or may increase our cost of obtaining foreign-sourced products.  Because we do not hedge against our foreign currency exposure, our business has increased susceptibility to foreign currency fluctuations.. 9. We and our growers are subject to the risks that are inherent in farming.. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by numerous factors over which we have little or no control and that are inherent in farming, including reductions in the market prices for our products, adverse weather (including but not limited to drought, high winds, earthquakes and/or wildfire) and growing conditions, pest and disease problems, and new government regulations regarding farming and the marketing of agricultural products.. Our earnings are sensitive to fluctuations in market prices and demand for our products.. Excess supplies often cause severe price competition in our industry. Growing conditions in various parts of the world, particularly weather conditions such as windstorms, floods, droughts and freezes, as well as diseases and pests, are primary factors affecting market prices because of their influence on the supply and quality of product.. Fresh produce is highly perishable and generally must be brought to market and sold soon after harvest.  The selling price received for each type of produce depends on all of these factors, including the availability and quality of the produce item in the market, and the availability and quality of competing types of produce.. In addition, general public perceptions regarding the quality, safety or health risks associated with particular food products could reduce demand and prices for some of our products. To the extent that consumer preferences evolve away from products that we produce for health or other reasons, and we are unable to modify our products or to develop products that satisfy new consumer preferences, there will be a decreased demand for our products.. Increases in commodity or raw product costs, such as fuel, packaging, and paper, could adversely affect our operating results.. Many factors may affect the cost and supply of fresh produce, including external conditions, commodity market fluctuations, currency fluctuations, changes in governmental laws and regulations, agricultural programs, severe and prolonged weather conditions and natural disasters. Increased costs for purchased fruit have in the past negatively impacted our operating results, and there can be no assurance that they will not adversely affect our operating results in the future.. The price of various commodities can significantly affect our costs. Fuel and transportation cost is a significant component of the price of much of the produce that we purchase from growers, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to pass on to our customers the increased costs we incur in these respects.. The cost of paper is also significant to us because most of our products are packed in cardboard boxes. If the price of paper increases and we are not able to effectively pass these price increases along to our customers, then our operating income will decrease.. We are subject to the risk of product liability claims.. The sale of food products for human consumption involves the risk of injury to consumers. Such injuries may result from tampering by unauthorized third parties, product contamination or spoilage, including the presence of foreign objects, substances, chemicals, other agents, or residues introduced during the growing, storage, handling or transportation phases. While we are subject to governmental inspection and regulations and believe our facilities comply in all material respects with all applicable laws and regulations, we cannot be sure that consumption of our products will not cause a health-related illness in the future or that we will not be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate and brand image.. 10. We are subject to possible changing USDA and FDA regulations which govern the importation of foreign avocados into the United States and the processing of processed avocado products.. The USDA has established, and continues to modify, regulations governing the importation of avocados into the United States. Our permits that allow us to import foreign-sourced avocados into the United States generally are contingent on our compliance with these regulations.  Our results of operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to comply with existing and modified regulations and are unable to secure avocado import permits in the future.. The FDA establishes, and continues to modify, regulations governing the production of processed avocado products, such as the new Food Safety Modernization Act, which implements mandatory preventive controls for food facilities and compliance with mandatory produce safety standards.  Our results of operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to comply with these existing and modified regulations.. If a transaction intended to qualify as a Section 1031 Exchange is later determined to be taxable, we may face adverse consequences, and if the laws applicable to such transactions are amended or repealed, we may not be able to dispose of properties on a tax deferred basis.. From time to time we may dispose of properties in transactions that are intended to qualify as tax deferred exchanges under Section 1031 (Section 1031 Exchanges). It is possible that the qualification of a transaction as a Section 1031 Exchange could be successfully challenged and determined to be currently taxable.  In addition, if a Section 1031 Exchange were later determined to be taxable, we may be required to amend our tax returns for the applicable year in question, including any information reports we sent our stockholders. Moreover, it is possible that legislation could be enacted that could modify or repeal the laws with respect to Section 1031 Exchanges, which could make it more difficult or not possible for us to dispose of properties on a tax deferred basis.. The acquisition of other businesses could pose risks to our operating income.. We intend to review acquisition prospects that would complement our business.  While we are not currently a party to any definitive agreement with respect to any acquisitions, we may acquire other businesses in the future.  Future acquisitions by us could result in accounting charges, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, and increased debt and contingent liabilities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and the market price of our common stock.  Acquisitions entail numerous risks, including the integration of the acquired operations, diversion of management's attention to other business concerns, risks of entering markets in which we have limited prior experience, and the potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations.  We may be unable to successfully integrate businesses or the personnel of any business that might be acquired in the future, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business and on the market price of our common stock.. Our ability to competitively serve our customers is a function of reliable and low cost transportation. Disruption of the supply of these services and/or significant increases in the cost of these services could impact our operating income.. We use multiple forms of transportation to bring our products to market.  They include ocean, truck, and air-cargo.  Disruption to the timely supply of these services or dramatic increases in the cost of these services for any reason including availability of fuel for such services, labor disputes, or governmental restrictions limiting specific forms of transportation could have an adverse effect on our ability to serve our customers and consumers and could have an adverse effect on our financial performance.. We depend on our infrastructure to have sufficient capacity to handle our annual production needs.. We have an infrastructure that has sufficient capacity for our production needs, but if we lose machinery or facilities due to natural disasters or mechanical failure, we may not be able to operate at a sufficient capacity to meet our production needs.  This could have a material adverse effect on our business, which could impact our results of operations and our financial condition.. 11. We depend on our key personnel and if we lose the services of any of these individuals, or fail to attract and retain additional key personnel, we may not be able to implement our business strategy or operate our business effectively.. Our future success largely depends on the contributions of our management team. We believe that these individuals' expertise and knowledge about our industry and their respective fields and their relationships with other individuals in our industry are critical factors to our continued growth and success. We do not carry key person insurance. The loss of the services of any member of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Our success also depends upon our ability to attract and retain additional qualified sales, marketing and other personnel.. A portion of our workforce is unionized and labor disruptions could decrease our profitability.. While we believe that our relations with our employees are good, we cannot assure you that we will be able to negotiate collective bargaining agreements on favorable terms, or at all, and without production interruptions, including labor stoppages. A prolonged labor dispute, which could include a work stoppage, could have a material adverse effect on the portion of our business affected by the dispute, which could impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. System security risks, data protection breaches, cyber-attacks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or services provided to customers, and any such disruption could reduce our expected revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price.. Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. Computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including \"bugs\" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions.. Portions of our IT infrastructure may also experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. We may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time consuming, disruptive and resource-intensive. Such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other processes. Delayed sales, lower profit or lost customers resulting from these disruptions have adversely affected us in the past, and in the future could adversely affect, our financial results, stock price and reputation.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. The value of our common stock may be adversely affected by market volatility.. The trading price of our common stock fluctuates and may be influenced by many factors, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tOur operating and financial performance and prospects;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tAnnouncements we make about our business, financial performance and prospects;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tShort-interest in our common stock, which may be significant from time-to-time;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tInvestor perception of us and the industry and markets in which we operate;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tOur inclusion in, or removal from, any equity market indices;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tChanges in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by analysts;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tWhether or not we meet earnings estimates of analysts who follow our Company; and. 12.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tGeneral financial, domestic, international, economic and other market conditions.. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from executing our growth strategy.. The timing and amount of our working capital and capital expenditure requirements may vary significantly depending on many factors, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tMarket acceptance of our products; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe existence of opportunities for expansion.. If our capital resources are not sufficient to satisfy our liquidity needs, we may seek to sell additional equity or obtain additional debt financing.  The sale of additional equity would result in dilution to our shareholders.  Additional debt would result in increased expenses and could result in covenants that would restrict our operations.  With the exception of our existing credit facility, we have not made arrangements to obtain additional financing.  We may not be able to obtain additional financing, if required, in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, or at all."                                                                                                                                                                                           
