[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Risk Factors. Risks Related to the Oil & Natural Gas Industry. Oil and natural gas prices are volatile, and substantial or extended declines in prices may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our success is highly dependent on prices for oil and natural gas, which have been extremely volatile in recent years. Approximately 77% of our anticipated 2018 production, on a BOE basis, is oil. Starting in the second half of 2014, the NYMEX price for a barrel of oil fell sharply, from a price of $105.37 on June 30, 2014 to $26.21 on February 11, 2016. During 2017, NYMEX prices ranged from a low of $42.53 per Bbl on June 21, 2017 to a high of $60.42 per Bbl on December 29, 2017. In addition, NYMEX prices for natural gas have been low compared with historical prices. Extended periods of low prices for oil or natural gas will have a material adverse effect on us. The prices of oil and natural gas depend on factors we cannot control such as macro economic conditions, levels of production, demand for oil and natural gas, relative price and availability of alternative forms of energy, actions by OPEC and other countries, legislative and regulatory actions, technology developments impacting energy consumption and energy supply, and weather. Prices of oil and natural gas will affect the following aspects of our business:. • our revenues, cash flows, earnings and returns;. • the amount of oil and natural gas that we are economically able to produce;. • our ability to attract capital to finance our operations and the cost of the capital;. • the amount we are allowed to borrow under our Credit Facility;. • the profit or loss we incur in exploring for and developing our reserves; and. • the value of our oil and natural gas properties.. Any substantial and extended decline in the price of oil or natural gas could have an adverse effect on our borrowing capacity, our ability to obtain additional capital, and our revenues, profitability and cash flows.. If oil and natural gas prices remain depressed for extended periods of time, we may be required to make significant downward adjustments to the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties. Under the full cost method, which we use to account for our oil and natural gas properties, the net capitalized costs of our oil and natural gas properties may not exceed the present value, discounted at 10%, of future net cash flows from estimated net proved reserves, using the preceding 12-months' average oil and natural gas prices, plus the lower of cost or fair market value of our unproved properties. If net capitalized costs of our oil and natural gas properties exceed this \"ceiling test\" limit, we must charge the amount of the excess to earnings. This type of charge will not affect our cash flows, but will reduce the book value of our stockholders' equity. We review the carrying value of our properties quarterly and once incurred, a write-down of oil and natural gas properties is not reversible at a later date, even if prices increase. See Notes 2 and 13 in the Footnotes to the Financial Statements for additional information.. For the period ended December 31, 2017, we did not recognize a write-down of oil and natural gas properties as a result of the ceiling test limitation. The ceiling test calculation as of December 31, 2017 was calculated using the average annual realized prices used in determining the estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves of $51.34 per barrel of oil and $2.98 per Mcf of natural gas. Oil prices continue to fluctuate and we may experience ceiling test write-downs in the future. Any future ceiling test cushion, and the risk we may incur write-downs or impairments, will be subject to fluctuation as a result of acquisition or divestiture activity.. Our estimated reserves are based on interpretations and assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. This Form 10-K contains estimates of our proved oil and natural gas reserves and the estimated future net cash flows from such reserves. These estimates are based upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC relating to oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. This process requires significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir and is therefore inherently imprecise.. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves most likely will vary from the estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this report. Additionally, estimates of reserves and future cash flows may be subject to material downward or upward revisions, based on production history, development drilling and exploration activities and prices of oil and natural gas.. 23. Table of Contents. You should not assume that any present value of future net cash flows from our estimated net proved reserves contained in this Form 10-K represents the market value of our oil and natural gas reserves. We base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves at December 31, 2017 on average 12-month prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Further, actual future net revenues will be affected by factors such as the amount and timing of actual development expenditures, the rate and timing of production, and changes in governmental regulations or taxes. At December 31, 2017, approximately 35% of the discounted present value of our estimated net proved reserves consisted of PUDs. PUDs represented 49% of total proved reserves by volume. Recovery of PUDs generally requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. Our reserve estimates include the assumption that we will make significant capital expenditures to develop these PUDs and the actual costs, development schedule, and results associated with these properties may not be as estimated. In addition, the 10% discount factor that we use to calculate the net present value of future net revenues and cash flows may not necessarily be the most appropriate discount factor based on our cost of capital in effect from time to time and the risks associated with our business and the oil and gas industry in general.. Unless we replace our oil and gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline. Our future oil and gas production depends on our success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. If we fail to replace reserves through drilling or acquisitions, our production, revenues, reserve quantities and cash flows will decline. In general, production from oil and gas properties declines as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. We may not be successful in finding, developing or acquiring additional reserves, and our efforts may not be economic. Our ability to make the necessary capital investment to maintain or expand our asset base of oil and gas reserves would be limited to the extent cash flow from operations is reduced and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable.. Competitive industry conditions may negatively affect our ability to conduct operations. We compete with numerous other companies in virtually all facets of our business. Our competitors in development, exploration, acquisitions and production include major integrated oil and gas companies and smaller independents as well as numerous financial buyers, including many that have significantly greater resources than us. Therefore, competitors may be able to pay more for desirable leases and evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties or prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. We also compete for the materials, equipment, personnel and services that are necessary for the exploration, development and operation of our properties. Our ability to increase reserves in the future will be dependent on our ability to select and acquire suitable prospects for future exploration and development. Factors that affect our ability to compete in the marketplace include:. • our access to the capital necessary to drill wells and acquire properties;. • our ability to acquire and analyze seismic, geological and other information relating to a property;. • our ability to retain the personnel necessary to properly evaluate seismic and other information relating to a property;. • our ability to procure materials, equipment, personnel and services required to explore, develop and operate our properties, including the ability to procure fracture stimulation services on wells drilled; and. • our ability to access pipelines, and the location of facilities used to produce and transport oil and natural gas production.. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, pressure pumping equipment and crews, other equipment, supplies, water, personnel and oil field services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget. From time to time, our industry experiences a shortage of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, water or qualified personnel. During these periods, the costs and delivery times of rigs, equipment and supplies are substantially greater. In addition, the demand for, and wage rates of, qualified drilling rig crews and other experienced personnel rise as the level of activity increases. Increasing levels of exploration and production may increase the demand for oilfield services and equipment, and the costs of these services and equipment may increase, while the quality of these services and equipment may suffer. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, pressure pumping equipment, supplies, water or qualified personnel can materially and adversely affect our operations and profitability.. Our producing properties are located in the Permian Basin of West Texas, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in a single geographic area. In addition, we have a large amount of proved reserves attributable to a small number of producing horizons within this area. All of our producing properties are geographically concentrated in the Permian Basin of West Texas. As a result of this concentration, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of regional supply and demand factors, delays or interruptions of production from wells in this area caused by governmental regulation, processing or transportation capacity constraints, availability of equipment, facilities, personnel or services market limitations or interruption of the processing or transportation of oil, natural gas or natural gas liquids. In addition, the effect of fluctuations on supply and demand may become more pronounced within specific geographic oil and natural gas producing areas such as the Permian Basin, which may cause these conditions to occur with greater frequency or magnify the effects of these conditions. Due to the concentrated nature of our portfolio of properties, a number of our properties could experience any of the same conditions at the same time, resulting in a relatively greater impact on our results of operations than they might have on other companies that have a more diversified portfolio of properties. Such delays or interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 24. Table of Contents. We may be unable to integrate successfully the operations of recent and future acquisitions with our operations, and we may not realize all the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions. Our business has and may in the future include producing property acquisitions that include undeveloped acreage. We can offer no assurance that we will achieve the desired profitability from our recent acquisitions or from any acquisitions we may complete in the future. In addition, failure to assimilate recent and future acquisitions successfully could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our acquisitions may involve numerous risks, including:. • operating a larger combined organization and adding operations;. • difficulties in the assimilation of the assets and operations of the acquired business, especially if the assets acquired are in a new geographic area;. • risk that oil and natural gas reserves acquired may not be of the anticipated magnitude or may not be developed as anticipated;. • loss of significant key employees from the acquired business;. • inability to obtain satisfactory title to the assets we acquire;. • a decrease in our liquidity if we use a portion of our available cash to finance acquisitions;. • a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance acquisitions;. • diversion of management's attention from other business concerns;. • failure to realize expected profitability or growth;. • failure to realize expected synergies and cost savings;. • coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities; and. • coordinating or consolidating corporate and administrative functions.. Further, unexpected costs and challenges may arise whenever businesses with different operations or management are combined, and we may experience unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition. If we consummate any future acquisition, our capitalization and results of operation may change significantly, and you may not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in evaluating future acquisitions. The inability to effectively manage the integration of acquisitions could reduce our focus on subsequent acquisition and current operations, which in turn, could negatively impact our results of operations.. We may fail to fully identify problems with any properties we acquire, and as such, assets we acquire may prove to be worth less than we paid because of uncertainties in evaluating recoverable reserves and potential liabilities. We are actively seeking to acquire additional acreage in Texas or other regions in the future. Successful acquisitions require an assessment of a number of factors, including estimates of recoverable reserves, exploration potential, future oil and natural gas prices, adequacy of title, operating and capital costs and potential environmental and other liabilities. Although we conduct a review of properties we acquire which we believe is consistent with industry practices, we can give no assurance that we have identified or will identify all existing or potential problems associated with such properties or that we will be able to mitigate any problems we do identify. Such assessments are inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain. In addition, our review may not permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. We do not inspect every well. Even when we inspect a well, we do not always discover structural, subsurface, title and environmental problems that may exist or arise. We are generally not entitled to contractual indemnification for preclosing liabilities, including environmental liabilities. Normally, we acquire interests in properties on an \"as is\" basis with limited remedies for breaches of representations and warranties. As a result of these factors, we may not be able to acquire oil and natural gas properties that contain economically recoverable reserves or be able to complete such acquisitions on acceptable terms.. Restrictions on our ability to obtain, recycle and dispose of water may impact our ability to execute our drilling and development plans in a timely or cost-effective manner. Water is an essential component of both the drilling and hydraulic fracturing processes.  Historically, we have been able to secure water from local land owners and other third party sources for use in our operations. If drought conditions were to occur or demand for water were to outpace supply, our ability to obtain water could be impacted and in turn, our ability to perform hydraulic fracturing operations could be restricted or made more costly. If we are unable to obtain water to use in our operations from local sources, we may be unable to economically produce oil and natural gas, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, significant amounts of water are produced in our operations.  Inadequate access to or availability of water recycling or water disposal facilities could adversely affect our production volumes or significantly increase the cost of our operations.. Factors beyond our control affect our ability to market production and our financial results. The ability to market oil and natural gas from our wells depends upon numerous factors beyond our control. These factors could negatively affect our ability to market all of the oil or natural gas we produce. In addition, we may be unable to obtain favorable prices for the oil and natural gas we produce. These factors include:. • the extent of domestic production and imports/exports of oil and natural gas;. • federal regulations authorizing exports of liquefied natural gas (\"LNG\"), the development of new LNG export facilities under construction in the U.S. Gulf Coast region, and the first LNG exports from such facilities;. 25. Table of Contents. • the construction of new pipelines capable of exporting U.S. natural gas to Mexico;. • the proximity of hydrocarbon production to pipelines;. • the availability of pipeline and/or refining capacity;. • the demand for oil and natural gas by utilities and other end users;. • the availability of alternative fuel sources;. • the effects of inclement weather;. • state and federal regulation of oil and natural gas marketing; and. • federal regulation of natural gas sold or transported in interstate commerce.. In particular, in areas with increasing non-conventional shale drilling activity, pipeline, rail or other transportation capacity may be limited and it may be necessary for new interstate and intrastate pipelines and gathering systems to be built.. The marketability of our production is dependent upon transportation facilities and services owned and operated by third parties, and the unavailability of these facilities or services would have a material adverse effect on our revenue. Our ability to market our production depends on the availability and capacity of pipeline and other transportation operations, including trucking services, owned and operated by third parties. These facilities and services may be temporarily unavailable to us due to market conditions, physical or mechanical disruption, weather, lack of contracted capacity or other reasons.  In addition, in certain newer development areas, transportation facilities and services may not be sufficient to accommodate potential production. Our failure to obtain access to transportation facilities and services on acceptable terms could materially harm our business. We may be required to shut in wells for lack of a market or because of inadequate or unavailable transportation capacity. If that were to occur, we would be unable to realize revenue from those wells until production arrangements were made to deliver our production to market. Furthermore, if we were required to shut in wells we might also be obligated to pay shut-in royalties to certain mineral interest owners in order to maintain our leases. If we were required to shut in our production for long periods of time due to lack of transportation capacity, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our exploration and development drilling efforts and the operation of our wells may not be profitable or achieve our targeted returns. Exploration, development, drilling and production activities are subject to many risks. We may invest in property, including undeveloped leasehold acreage, which we believe will result in projects that will add value over time. However, we cannot guarantee that any leasehold acreage acquired will be profitably developed, that new wells drilled will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment in such leasehold acreage or wells. Drilling for oil and natural gas may involve unprofitable efforts, including wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net reserves to return a profit after deducting operating and other costs. In addition, wells that are profitable may not achieve our targeted rate of return.. In addition, we may not be successful in controlling our drilling and production costs to improve our overall return. We may be forced to limit, delay or cancel drilling operations as a result of a variety of factors, including among others:. • unexpected drilling conditions;. • pressure or irregularities in formations;. • lack of proximity to and shortage of capacity of transportation facilities;. • equipment failures or accidents and shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs, equipment, personnel and services; and. • compliance with governmental requirements.. Failure to conduct our oil and gas operations in a profitable manner may result in write-downs of our proved reserves quantities, impairment of our oil and gas properties, and a write-down in the carrying value of our unproved properties, and over time may adversely affect our growth, revenues and cash flows.. Our identified drilling locations are scheduled to be drilled over many years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could prevent them from being drilled or delay their drilling. Our management team has identified drilling locations as an estimation of our future development activities on our existing acreage. These identified drilling locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these identified drilling locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including among others:. • oil and natural gas prices;. • the availability and cost of capital;. • availability and cost of drilling, completion and production services and equipment;. • drilling results;. • lease expirations;. • gathering, marketing and transportation constraints; and. 26. Table of Contents. • regulatory approvals.. Because of these uncertain factors, we do not know if the identified drilling locations will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce oil or natural gas from these drilling locations. In addition, unless production is established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres on which some of the identified locations are located, the leases for such acreage will expire. Therefore, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified.. The development of our proved undeveloped reserves may take longer and may require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Approximately 49% of our total estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2017, were proved undeveloped reserves and may not be ultimately developed or produced. Recovery of proved undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. The reserve data included in the reserve reports of our independent petroleum engineers assume that substantial capital expenditures are required to develop such reserves. We cannot be certain that the estimated costs of the development of these reserves are accurate, that development will occur as scheduled or that the results of such development will be as estimated. Delays in the development of our reserves, increases in costs to drill and develop such reserves or decreases in commodity prices will reduce the future net revenues of our estimated proved undeveloped reserves and may result in some projects becoming uneconomical. In addition, delays in the development of reserves could force us to reclassify certain of our proved reserves as unproved reserves.. The results of our planned development programs in new or emerging shale development areas and formations may be subject to more uncertainties than programs in more established areas and formations, and may not meet our expectations for reserves or production. The results of our horizontal drilling efforts in emerging areas and formations of the Permian Basin, including Howard and Ward Counties, are generally more uncertain than drilling results in areas that are less developed and have more established production from horizontal formations such as the Wolfcamp, Spraberry and Bone Spring horizons. Because emerging areas and associated target formations have limited or no production history, we are less able to rely on past drilling results in those areas as a basis to predict our future drilling results. In addition, horizontal wells drilled in shale formations, as distinguished from vertical wells, utilize multilateral wells and stacked laterals, all of which are subject to well spacing, density and proration requirements of the Texas Railroad Commission, which requirements could adversely impact our ability to maximize the efficiency of our horizontal wells related to reservoir drainage over time. Further, access to adequate gathering systems or pipeline takeaway capacity and the availability of drilling rigs and other services may be more challenging in new or emerging areas. If our drilling results are less than anticipated or we are unable to execute our drilling program because of capital constraints, access to gathering systems and takeaway capacity or otherwise, and/or natural gas and oil prices decline, our investment in these areas may not be as economic as we anticipate, we could incur material write-downs of unevaluated properties and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline in the future.. Unexpected subsurface conditions and other unforeseen operating hazards may adversely impact our ability to conduct business. There are many operating hazards in exploring for and producing oil and natural gas, including:. • our drilling operations may encounter unexpected formations or pressures, which could cause damage to equipment or personal injury;. • we may experience equipment failures which curtail or stop production;. • we could experience blowouts or other damages to the productive formations that may require a well to be re-drilled or other corrective action to be taken; and. • storms and other extreme weather conditions could cause damages to our production facilities or wells.. Because of these or other events, we could experience environmental hazards, including release of oil and natural gas from spills, natural gas-leaks, accidental leakage of toxic or hazardous materials, such as petroleum liquids, drilling fluids or fracturing fluids, including chemical additives, underground migration, and ruptures.. If we experience any of these problems, it could affect well bores, gathering systems and processing facilities, which could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations.  We could also incur substantial losses in excess of our insurance coverage as a result of:. • injury or loss of life;. • severe damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment;. • pollution and other environmental damage;. • clean-up responsibilities;. • regulatory investigation and penalties;. • suspension of our operations; and. • repairs to resume operations.. 27. Table of Contents. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance at rates we consider reasonable to cover our possible losses from operating hazards. The occurrence of a significant event not fully insured or indemnified against could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to operate. We depend, and will continue to depend in the foreseeable future, on the services of our senior officers and other key employees, as well as other third-party consultants with extensive experience and expertise in evaluating and analyzing drilling prospects and producing oil and natural gas and maximizing production from oil and natural gas properties. Our ability to retain our senior officers, other key employees and our third party consultants, none of whom are subject to employment agreements, is important to our future success and growth. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could have a detrimental effect on our business.. Cyber-attacks targeting systems and infrastructure used by the oil and gas industry may adversely impact our operations.  Our business has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies to conduct certain exploration, development, production and financial activities. We depend on digital technology to estimate quantities of oil and gas reserves, manage operations, process and record financial and operating data, analyze seismic and drilling information, and communicate with our employees and third party partners. Unauthorized access to our seismic data, reserves information or other proprietary information could lead to data corruption, communication interruption, or other operational disruptions in our exploration or production operations. Also, computers control nearly all of the oil and gas distribution systems in the United States and abroad, which are necessary to transport our production to market. A cyber-attack directed at oil and gas distribution systems could damage critical distribution and storage assets or the environment, delay or prevent delivery of production to markets and make it difficult or impossible to accurately account for production and settle transactions. Cyber incidents have increased, and the U.S. government has issued warnings indicating that energy assets may be specific targets of cyber security threats. Our systems and insurance coverage for protecting against cyber security risks may not be sufficient. Further, as cyber-attacks continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any vulnerability to cyber-attacks.. Risks Related to Financial Position. Our business requires significant capital expenditures and we may not be able to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms or at all. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures in our business for the development, exploitation, production and acquisition of oil and natural gas reserves. Historically, we have funded our capital expenditures through a combination of cash flows from operations, borrowings from financial institutions, the sale of public debt and equity securities and asset dispositions. In 2017, our total operational capital expenditures, including expenditures for drilling, completion and facilities, were approximately $420 million on a cash basis ($463 million on an accrual, or GAAP, basis). Our 2018 budget for operational capital expenditures is currently estimated to be approximately $500 to $540 million (on an accrual, or GAAP, basis). The actual amount and timing of our future capital expenditures may differ materially from our estimates as a result of, among other things, commodity prices, actual drilling results, the cost and availability of drilling rigs and other services and equipment, and regulatory, technological and competitive developments.. If the borrowing base under our Credit Facility or our revenues decrease as a result of lower oil or natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. If cash generated by operations or cash available under our Credit Facility is not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to development of our drilling locations, which in turn could lead to a possible expiration of our leases and a decline in our estimated net proved reserves, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Restrictive covenants in our Credit Facility and the indenture governing our 6.125% Senior Notes may limit our ability to respond to changes in market conditions or pursue business opportunities. Our Credit Facility and the indenture governing our 6.125% Senior Notes contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to, among other things:. • incur additional indebtedness;. • make investments;. • merge or consolidate with another entity;. • pay dividends or make certain other payments;. • hedge future production or interest rates;. • create liens that secure indebtedness;. • sell assets; and. • engage in certain other transactions without the prior consent of the lenders.. 28. Table of Contents. As a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business and we may be unable to react to changes in market conditions, take advantage of business opportunities we believe to be desirable, obtain future financing, fund needed capital expenditures or withstand a continuing or future downturn in our business.. In addition, our Credit Facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios and to make certain required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest.  If we fail to comply with these provisions or other financial and operating covenants in the Credit Facility and the indenture governing the 6.125 % Senior Notes, we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness. In the event of such default:. • the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest;. • the lenders under our Credit Facility could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets; and. • we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.. Our borrowings under our Credit Facility expose us to interest rate risk. Our earnings are exposed to interest rate risk associated with borrowings under our Credit Facility, which bear interest at a rate elected by us that is based on the prime, LIBOR or federal funds rate plus margins ranging from 2.00% to 3.00% depending on the interest rate used and the amount of the loan outstanding in relation to the borrowing base.. The borrowing base under our Credit Facility may be reduced below the amount of borrowings outstanding under such facilities. The borrowing base under our Credit Facility is currently $700 million, with elected commitments of $500 million. In the future, we may not be able to access adequate funding under our Credit Facility as a result of a decrease in borrowing base due to the issuance of new indebtedness, the outcome of a subsequent borrowing base redetermination or an unwillingness or inability on the part of lending counterparties to meet their funding obligations. In addition, we cannot borrow amounts above the elected commitments, even if the borrowing base is greater, without new commitments being obtained from the lenders for such incremental amounts above the elected commitments. Our borrowing base is subject to redeterminations semi-annually, and our next scheduled borrowing base redetermination is expected to occur on or about May 2018. If our borrowing base were to be reduced, we may be unable to implement our drilling and development plan, make acquisitions or otherwise carry out business plans, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and impair our ability to service our indebtedness. In addition, in the event the amount outstanding under our Credit Facility exceeds the elected commitments, we must repay such amounts immediately in cash. In the event the amount outstanding under our Credit Facility exceeds the redetermined borrowing base, we are required to either (i) grant liens on additional oil and gas properties (not previously evaluated in determining such borrowing base) with a value equal to or greater than such excess, (ii) repay such excess borrowings over six monthly installments, or (iii) elect a combination of options in clauses (i) and (ii). We may not have sufficient funds to make any required repayment.  If we do not have sufficient funds and are otherwise unable to negotiate renewals of our borrowings or arrange new financing, an event of default would occur under our Credit Facility.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under applicable debt instruments, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our indebtedness obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to certain financial, economic, competitive and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance indebtedness. Our ability to restructure or refinance indebtedness will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness. Our Credit Facility currently restricts our ability to dispose of assets and our use of the proceeds from such disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions, and the proceeds of any such disposition may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet scheduled debt service obligations.. Our leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and business prospects. As of December 31, 2017, we  had $600 million outstanding of 6.125% Senior Notes and $25 million outstanding under our Credit Facility, which had an additional $474 million available for borrowings based on the existing level of commitments. Our amount of indebtedness could affect our operations in several ways, including the following:. 29. Table of Contents. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our existing debt, thereby reducing the cash available to finance our operations and other business activities;. • limit management's discretion in operating our business and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. • increase our vulnerability to downturns and adverse developments in our business and the economy;. • limit our ability to access the capital markets to raise capital on favorable terms or to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions or to refinance existing indebtedness;. • place restrictions on our ability to obtain additional financing, make investments, lease equipment, sell assets and engage in business combinations;. • make it more likely that a reduction in our borrowing base following a periodic redetermination could require us to repay a portion of our then-outstanding bank borrowings;. • make us vulnerable to increases in interest rates as our indebtedness under our Credit Facility may vary with prevailing interest rates;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors with lower levels of indebtedness in relation to their overall size or less restrictive terms governing their indebtedness; and. • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under the 6.125% Senior Notes or other debt and increase the risk that we may default on our debt obligations.. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or improve our leverage position. An element of our business strategy involves maintaining a disciplined approach to financial management. However, we are also seeking to acquire, exploit and develop additional reserves that may require the incurrence of additional indebtedness. Although we will seek to maintain or improve our leverage position, our ability to maintain or reduce our level of indebtedness depends on a variety of factors, including future performance and our future debt financing needs. General economic conditions, oil and natural gas prices and financial, business and other factors will also affect our ability to maintain or improve our leverage position. Many of these factors are beyond our control.. We may not be insured against all of the risks to which our business is exposed from ongoing or legacy operations. In accordance with industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of the operating risks to which our business is exposed. We cannot assure you that our insurance will be adequate to cover all losses or liabilities related to our current or legacy operations. Also, we cannot predict the continued availability of insurance at premium levels that justify its purchase. No assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable and may elect none or minimal insurance coverage. The occurrence of a significant event or claim, not fully insured or indemnified against, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations.. Our hedging program may limit potential gains from increases in commodity prices or may result in losses or may be inadequate to protect us against continuing and prolonged declines in commodity prices. We enter into hedging arrangements from time to time to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices and to achieve more predictable cash flow. Our hedges at December 31, 2017 are in the form of collars, swaps, put and call options, and other structures placed with the commodity trading branches of certain national banking institutions and with certain other commodity trading groups. These hedging arrangements may limit the benefit we could receive from increases in the market or spot prices for oil and natural gas. We cannot assure you that the hedging transactions we have entered into, or will enter into, will adequately protect us from fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices. At December 31, 2017,  the Company's hedging portfolio, linked to NYMEX benchmark pricing, covers approximately 5,842 MBbls and 4,086 BBtu of our expected oil and natural gas production, respectively, for calendar year 2018. We also have commodity hedging contracts linked to Midland WTI basis differentials relative to Cushing covering approximately 5,289 MBbls of our expected oil production for calendar year 2018. These hedges may be inadequate to protect us from continuing and prolonged declines in oil and natural gas prices. To the extent that oil and natural gas prices remain at current levels or decline further, we will not be able to hedge future production at the same pricing level as our current hedges and our results of operations and financial condition would be negatively impacted.. We may not have production to offset hedges. Part of our business strategy is to reduce our exposure to the volatility of oil and natural gas prices by hedging a portion of our production. In a typical hedge transaction, we will have the right to receive from the other parties to the hedge the excess of the fixed price specified in the hedge over a floating price based on a market index, multiplied by the quantity hedged. If the floating price exceeds the fixed price, we are required to pay the other parties this difference multiplied by the quantity hedged regardless of whether we have sufficient production to cover the quantities specified in the hedge. Significant reductions in production at times when the floating price exceeds the fixed price could require us to make payments under the hedge agreements even though such payments are not offset by sales of physical production.. Our hedging transactions expose us to counterparty credit risk. Our hedging transactions expose us to risk of financial loss if a counterparty fails to perform under a derivative contract. Disruptions in the financial markets could lead to sudden decreases in a. 30. Table of Contents. counterparty's liquidity, which could make them unable to perform under the terms of the derivative contract and we may not be able to realize the benefit of the derivative contract. During periods of falling commodity prices, our hedging transactions expose us to risk of financial loss if our counterparty to a derivatives transaction fails to perform its obligations under a derivatives transaction. We are unable to predict sudden changes in a counterparty's creditworthiness or ability to perform. Even if we do accurately predict sudden changes, our ability to negate the risk may be limited depending upon market conditions. If the creditworthiness of our counterparties deteriorates and results in their nonperformance, we could incur a significant loss.. The inability of one or more of our customers to meet their obligations to us may adversely affect our financial results.  Our principal exposures to credit risk are through receivables resulting from the sale of our oil and natural gas production, which we market to energy marketing companies, refineries and affiliates, advances to joint interest parties and joint interest receivables. We are also subject to credit risk due to the concentration of our oil and natural gas receivables with several significant customers. The largest purchaser of our oil and natural gas accounted for approximately 29% of our total oil and natural gas revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017. We do not require any of our customers to post collateral. The inability or failure of our significant customers to meet their obligations to us or their insolvency or liquidation may adversely affect our financial results.. We have no plans to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future.  The terms of our Credit Facility contain limitations that impact our ability to pay dividends and make other distributions. In addition, any future determination as to the declaration and payment of cash dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon our financial condition, results of operations, contractual restrictions, capital requirements, business prospects and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors.. Legal and Regulatory Risks. We are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations which require compliance that could result in substantial costs, delays or penalties.  Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to various federal, state and local governmental regulations that may be changed from time to time in response to economic and political conditions.  For a discussion of the material regulations applicable to us, see \"Regulations.\"  These laws and regulations may:. • require that we acquire permits before commencing drilling;. • regulate the spacing of wells and unitization and pooling of properties;. • impose limitations on production or operational, emissions control and other conditions on our activities;. • restrict the substances that can be released into the environment or used in connection with drilling and production activities or restrict the disposal of waste from our operations;. • limit or prohibit drilling activities on protected areas such as wetlands, wilderness or other protected areas;. • impose penalties and other sanctions for accidental and/or unpermitted spills or releases from our operations; and. • require measures to remediate or mitigate pollution and environmental impacts from current and former operations, such as cleaning up spills or dismantling abandoned production facilities.. Significant expenditures may be required to comply with governmental laws and regulations applicable to us. In addition, failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of penalties, permit revocations, requirements for additional pollution controls or injunctions limiting or prohibiting operations.. The regulatory burden on the oil and natural gas industry increases the cost of doing business in the industry and consequently affects profitability. Additionally, Congress and federal, state and local agencies frequently revise environmental laws and regulations, and such changes could result in increased costs for environmental compliance, such as waste handling, permitting, or cleanup for the oil and natural gas industry and could have a significant impact on our operating costs. In general, the oil and natural gas industry recently has been the subject of increased legislative and regulatory attention with respect to environmental matters. Even if regulatory burdens temporarily ease, the historic trend of more expansive and stricter environmental legislation and regulations may continue in the long-term.. Further, under these laws and regulations, we could be liable for costs of investigation, removal and remediation, damages to and loss of use of natural resources, loss of profits or impairment of earning capacity, property damages, costs of increased public services, as well as administrative, civil and criminal fines and penalties, and injunctive relief. Certain environmental statutes, including the RCRA, CERCLA, OPA and analogous state laws and regulations, impose strict joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where hazardous substances or other waste products have been disposed of or otherwise released. We could also be affected by more stringent laws and regulations adopted in the future, including any related to climate change, greenhouse gases and hydraulic fracturing. Under the common law, we could be liable for injuries to people and property. We maintain limited insurance coverage for sudden and accidental environmental damages. We do not believe that insurance coverage for environmental damages that occur over time is available at a reasonable cost. Also, we do not believe that insurance coverage for the full potential liability that could be caused by sudden and. 31. Table of Contents. accidental environmental damages is available at a reasonable cost. Accordingly, we may be subject to liability or we may be required to cease production from properties in the event of environmental incidents.. Federal legislation and state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing and water disposal wells could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. Hydraulic fracturing is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons, particularly natural gas, from tight formations. The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production and is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions. However, legislation has been proposed in recent sessions of Congress to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to repeal the exemption for hydraulic fracturing from the definition of \"underground injection,\" to require federal permitting and regulatory control of hydraulic fracturing, and to require disclosure of the chemical constituents of the fluids used in the fracturing process. Furthermore, several federal agencies have asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. For example, the EPA has taken the position that hydraulic fracturing with fluids containing diesel fuel is subject to regulation under the Underground Injection Control program, specifically as \"Class II\" Underground Injection Control wells under the Safe Drinking Water Act. The EPA has also published air emission standards for certain equipment, processes and activities across the oil and natural gas sector. In addition, the BLM previously published final rules governing hydraulic fracturing on federal and Indian lands, which rules have been rescinded or suspended, but litigation is ongoing regarding the rules.. In some areas of Texas, there has been concern that certain formations into which disposal wells are injecting produced waters could become over-pressured after many years of injection, and the governing Texas regulatory agency is reviewing the data to determine whether any action is necessary to address this issue. If the Texas state agency were to decline to issue permits for, or limit the volumes of, new injection wells into the formations currently utilized by us, we may be required to seek alternative methods of disposing of produced waters, including injecting into deeper formations, which could increase our costs.. Some states have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could restrict hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances, impose additional requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities or otherwise require the public disclosure of chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. For example, pursuant to legislation adopted by the State of Texas in June 2011, the chemical components used in the hydraulic fracturing process, as well as the volume of water used, must be disclosed to the RRC and the public. Furthermore, in 2013, the RRC issued the \"well integrity rule,\" which includes new testing and reporting requirements, such as (i) the requirement to submit to the RRC cementing reports after well completion or cessation of drilling, and (ii) the imposition of additional testing on wells less than 1,000 feet below usable groundwater. Additionally, in 2014 the RRC adopted a rule requiring applicants for certain new water disposal wells to conduct seismic activity searches using the U.S. Geological Survey to determine the potential for earthquakes within a circular area of 100 square miles. The rule also clarifies the RRC's authority to modify, suspend or terminate a disposal well permit if scientific data indicates a disposal well is likely to contribute to seismic activity. The RRC has used this authority to deny permits for waste disposal wells. In addition to state law, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict or prohibit the performance of drilling in general and/or hydraulic fracturing in particular.. In December 2016, the EPA released its final report \"Hydraulic Fracturing for Oil and Gas: Impacts from the Hydraulic Fracturing Water Cycle on Drinking Water Resources in the United States.\" This report concludes that hydraulic fracturing can impact drinking water resources in certain circumstances but also noted that certain date gaps and uncertainties limited EPA's assessment.   This study could result in additional regulatory scrutiny that could make it difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing and increase our costs of compliance and doing business.. There has been increasing public controversy regarding hydraulic fracturing with regard to the use of fracturing fluids, induced seismic activity, impacts on drinking water supplies, water usage and the potential for impacts to surface water, groundwater and the environment generally, and a number of lawsuits and enforcement actions have been initiated across the country implicating hydraulic fracturing practices. Several states and municipalities have adopted, or are considering adopting, regulations that could restrict or prohibit hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances. If new laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing or water disposal wells are adopted, such laws could make it more difficult or costly for us to drill for and produce oil and natural gas as well as make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings. In addition, if hydraulic fracturing is further regulated at the federal, state or local level, our fracturing activities could become subject to additional permitting and financial assurance requirements, more stringent construction specifications, increased monitoring, reporting and recordkeeping obligations, plugging and abandonment requirements, permitting delays and potential increases in costs. These changes could cause us to incur substantial compliance costs, and compliance or the consequences of any failure to comply by us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. At this time, it is not possible to estimate the impact on our business of newly enacted or potential federal, state or local laws governing hydraulic fracturing.. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of \"greenhouse gases\" (\"GHG\") could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas we produce. In recent years, federal, state and local governments have taken. 32. Table of Contents. steps to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. The EPA has finalized a series of greenhouse gas monitoring, reporting and emissions control rules for the oil and natural gas industry, and the U.S. Congress has, from time to time, considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions. Several states have already taken measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases primarily through the development of greenhouse gas emission inventories and/or regional greenhouse gas cap-and-trade programs. While we are subject to certain federal greenhouse gas monitoring and reporting requirements, our operations currently are not adversely impacted by existing federal, state and local climate change initiatives. For a description of existing and proposed greenhouse gas rules and regulations, see \"Regulations.\". In December 2015, the United States participated in the 21st Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Paris, France. The resulting Paris Agreement calls for the parties to undertake \"ambitious efforts\" to limit the average global temperature and to conserve and enhance sinks and reservoirs of GHGs. The Paris Agreement went into effect on November 4, 2016. The Paris Agreement establishes a framework for the parties to cooperate and report actions to reduce GHG emissions. However, on June 1, 2017, President Trump announced that the United States would withdraw from the Paris Agreement. It is not clear what steps the Trump Administration plans to take to withdraw from the Paris Agreement, whether a new agreement can be negotiated, or what terms would be included in such an agreement. Restrictions on GHG emissions that may be imposed could adversely affect the oil and gas industry. The adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce GHG emissions could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory requirements. Any GHG emissions legislation or regulatory programs applicable to power plants or refineries could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the oil and natural gas we produce. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce GHG emissions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Restrictions on emissions of methane or carbon dioxide that may be imposed could adversely impact the demand for, price of, and value of our products and reserves. As our operations also emit greenhouse gases directly, current and future laws or regulations limiting such emissions could increase our own costs. At this time, it is not possible to accurately estimate how potential future laws or regulations addressing greenhouse gas emissions would impact our business.. In addition, there have also been efforts in recent years to influence the investment community, including investment advisors and certain sovereign wealth, pension and endowment funds promoting divestment of fossil fuel equities and pressuring lenders to limit funding to companies engaged in the extraction of fossil fuel reserves. Such environmental activism and initiatives aimed at limiting climate change and reducing air pollution could interfere with our business activities, operations and ability to access capital. Furthermore, claims have been made against certain energy companies alleging that GHG emissions from oil and natural gas operations constitute a public nuisance under federal and/or state common law. As a result, private individuals or public entities may seek to enforce environmental laws and regulations against us and could allege personal injury, property damages or other liabilities. An unfavorable ruling in any such case could significantly impact our operations and could have an adverse impact on our financial condition.. Current or proposed financial legislation and rulemaking could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\") establishes federal oversight and regulation of over-the-counter derivatives and requires the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the \"CFTC\") and the SEC to enact further regulations affecting derivative contracts, including the derivative contracts we use to hedge our exposure to price volatility through the over-the-counter market.. Although the CFTC and the SEC have issued final regulations in certain areas, final rules in other areas and the scope of relevant definitions and/or exemptions still remain to be finalized. In one of the CFTC's rulemaking proceedings still pending under the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFTC has proposed but not yet approved position limits for certain futures and options contracts in various commodities and for swaps that are their economic equivalents (with exemptions for certain bona fide hedging transactions). Similarly, the CFTC has proposed but not yet finalized a rule regarding the capital that a swap dealer or major swap participant is required to post with respect to its swap business has not yet issued a final rule. The CFTC has issued a final rule on margin requirements for uncleared swap transactions in January 2016, which includes an exemption for certain commercial end-users that enter into uncleared swaps in order to hedge bona fide commercial risks affecting their business. In addition, the CFTC has issued a final rule authorizing an exception from the requirement to use cleared exchanges (rather than hedging over-the-counter) for commercial end-users who use swaps to hedge their commercial risks. The Dodd-Frank Act also imposes recordkeeping and reporting obligations on counterparties to swap transactions and other regulatory compliance obligations. All of the above regulations could increase the costs to us of entering into financial derivative transactions to hedge or mitigate our exposure to commodity price volatility and other commercial risks affecting our business.. While it is not possible at this time to predict when the CFTC will issue final rules applicable to position limits or capital requirements, depending on  our ability to satisfy the CFTC's requirements for the various exemptions available for a commercial end-user using swaps to hedge or mitigate its commercial risks, these rules and regulations may provide beneficial exemptions or may require us to comply with position limits and other limitations with respect to our financial derivative activities. When a final rule on capital requirements is. 33. Table of Contents. issued, the Dodd-Frank Act may require our current counterparties to post additional capital as a result of entering into uncleared financial derivatives with us, which could increase the cost to us of entering into such derivatives. The Dodd-Frank Act may also require our current counterparties to financial derivative transactions to spin off some of their derivatives activities to separate entities, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparties, and may cause some entities to cease their current business as hedge providers. These changes could reduce the liquidity of the financial derivatives markets which would reduce the ability of commercial end-users like us to hedge or mitigate their exposure to commodity price volatility. The Dodd-Frank Act and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts, materially alter the terms of future swaps relative to the terms of our existing financial derivative contracts, and reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against commercial risks we encounter.. In addition, federal banking regulators have adopted new capital requirements for certain regulated financial institutions in connection with the Basel III Accord. The Federal Reserve Board also issued proposed regulations on September 30, 2016, proposing to impose higher risk-weighted capital requirements on financial institutions active in physical commodities, such as oil and natural gas. If and when these proposed regulations are fully implemented, financial institutions subject to these higher capital requirements may require that we provide cash or other collateral with respect to our obligations under the financial derivatives and other contracts in order to reduce the amount of capital such financial institutions may have to maintain. Alternatively, financial institutions subject to these capital requirements may require premiums to enter into derivatives and other physical commodity transactions to compensate for the additional capital costs for these transactions. Rules implementing the Basel III Accord and higher risk-weighted capital requirements could materially reduce our liquidity and increase the cost of derivative contracts and other physical commodity contracts (including through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available capital for other commercial operations purposes).. If we reduce our use of derivative contracts as a result of any of the foregoing new requirements, our results of operations may become more volatile and cash flows less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the legislation was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments. Our revenues could t be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.. Tax laws and regulations may change over time, and the recently passed comprehensive tax reform bill could adversely affect our business and financial condition.  On December 22, 2017, the President signed into law Public Law No. 115-97, a comprehensive tax reform bill commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") that significantly reforms the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"). The Tax Act, among other things, (i) permanently reduces the U.S. corporate income tax rate, (ii) repeals the corporate alternative minimum tax, (iii) eliminates the deduction for certain domestic production activities, (iv) imposes new limitations on the utilization of net operating losses, and (v) provides for more general changes to the taxation of corporations, including changes to cost recovery rules and to the deductibility of interest expense, which may impact the taxation of oil and gas companies. The Tax Act is complex and far-reaching and we cannot predict with certainty the resulting impact its enactment has on us. The ultimate impact of the Tax Act may differ from our estimates due to changes in interpretations and assumptions made by us as well as additional regulatory guidance that may be issued and any such changes in interpretations or assumptions could adversely affect our business and financial condition. See Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report for additional information.. In addition, from time to time, legislation has been proposed that, if enacted into law, would make significant changes to U.S. federal and state income tax laws, including (i) the elimination of the immediate deduction for intangible drilling and development costs, (ii) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties and (iii) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. While these specific changes are not included in the Tax Act, no accurate prediction can be made as to whether any such legislative changes will be proposed or enacted in the future or, if enacted, what the specific provisions or the effective date of any such legislation would be. The elimination of such U.S. federal tax deductions, as well as any other changes to or the imposition of new federal, state, local or non-U.S. taxes (including the imposition of, or increases in production, severance or similar taxes) could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. Provisions of  our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for  our common stock. Provisions in  our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing an acquisition of the Company or a merger in which  we are not the surviving company and may otherwise prevent or slow changes in our board of directors and management. In addition, because  we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions could discourage an acquisition of the Company or other change in control transactions and thereby negatively affect the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock.. 34. Table of Contents. We may be subject to the actions of activist shareholders. We have been the subject of increased activity by activist shareholders. Responding to shareholder activism can be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our operations and divert the attention of management and our employees from executing our business plan. Activist campaigns can create perceived uncertainties as to our future direction, strategy or leadership and may result in the loss of potential business opportunities, harm our ability to attract new investors, customers and joint venture partners and cause our stock price to experience periods of volatility or stagnation. Moreover, if individuals are elected to our board of directors with a specific agenda, our ability to effectively and timely implement our current initiatives, retain and attract experienced executives and employees and execute on our long-term strategy may be adversely affected."
