[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to our Business. We may not have sufficient cash from operations, following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our general partner, to enable us to pay distributions to our unitholders.. In April 2016, we announced suspension of our quarterly cash distribution to unitholders. We may not have sufficient available cash from operations each quarter to enable us to resume payment of a distribution to unitholders. The amount of cash we can distribute on our common units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things:. • overall demand for specialty hydrocarbon products, fuel and other refined products;. • the level of foreign and domestic production of crude oil and refined products;. • our ability to produce fuel products and specialty products that meet our customers' unique and precise specifications;. • the marketing of alternative and competing products;. • the extent of government regulation;. • results of our hedging activities; and. • overall economic and local market conditions.. In addition, the actual amount of cash we have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:. • the level of capital expenditures we make, including those for acquisitions, if any;. • our debt service requirements;. • fluctuations in our working capital needs;. • our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets;. • restrictions on distributions and on our ability to make working capital borrowings for distributions contained in our debt instruments; and. • the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner for the proper conduct of our business.. If we generate insufficient cash from our operations for a sustained period of time and/or forecasts demonstrate expectations of continued future insufficiencies, the board of directors of our general partner may determine not to reinstate our distribution to unitholders. Any such continued suspension or elimination in distributions may cause the trading price of our units to decline.. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to unitholders depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on profitability.. Unitholders should be aware that the amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow, including cash flow from financial reserves and working capital borrowings, and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record net losses and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income.. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business.. We had approximately $2.0 billion of outstanding indebtedness as of December 31, 2017, and availability for borrowings of approximately $252.0 million under our senior secured revolving credit facility, in addition to $164.3 million of unrestricted cash. We continue to have the ability to incur additional debt, including the ability to borrow up to an aggregate principal amount of $600.0 million at any time, subject to borrowing base limitations, under our revolving credit facility. A tranche of the revolving credit facility includes a $25.0 million senior secured first loaned in and last to be repaid out (\"FILO\") revolving credit facility. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our results of operations, business and financial condition, and our ability to meet our debt obligations and resume payment of distributions to our unitholders. In addition, our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including the following:. • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms;. • covenants contained in our existing and future credit and debt arrangements will require us to meet financial tests that may affect our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business, including possible acquisition opportunities;. 24. Table of Contents. • we will need a substantial portion of our cash flow to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and payments of our debt obligations;. • our ability to execute our acquisition and divestiture strategy; and. • our debt level will make us more vulnerable than our competitors with less debt to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy in general.. Any of these factors could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions, results of operations, business prospects and ability to satisfy our obligations under our senior notes and revolving credit facility.. Our ability to service our indebtedness will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as continuing the suspension of distributions to our unitholders, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments and/or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. Please read Part II, Item 7 \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Liquidity and Capital Resources  -  Debt and Credit Facilities\" for additional information regarding our indebtedness.. Refining margins are volatile, and a continued reduction in our refining margins will adversely affect the amount of cash we will have available for distribution to our unitholders and for payments of our debt obligations.. Our financial results are primarily affected by the relationship, or margin, between our specialty products prices and fuel products prices and the prices for crude oil and other feedstocks. The costs to acquire our feedstocks and the prices at which we can ultimately sell our refined products depend upon numerous factors beyond our control. When the margin between refined product prices and crude oil and other feedstock prices tightens, our earnings, profitability and cash flows are negatively impacted. Historically, refining margins have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile in the future.. A widely used benchmark in the fuel products industry to measure market values and margins is the Gulf Coast 2/1/1 crack spread (\"Gulf Coast crack spread\"), which represents the approximate gross margin resulting from refining crude oil, assuming that two barrels of a benchmark crude oil are converted, or cracked, into one barrel of gasoline and one barrel of heating oil. The Gulf Coast crack spread ranged from a high of $32.86 per barrel to a low of $10.47 per barrel during 2017 and averaged $16.76 per barrel during 2017 compared to an average of $12.33 in 2016 and $17.96 in 2015.. Our actual refining margins vary from the Gulf Coast crack spread due to the actual crude oil used and products produced, transportation costs, regional differences, and the timing of the purchase of the feedstock and sale of the refined products, but we use the Gulf Coast crack spread as an indicator of the volatility and general levels of fuels refining margins.. The prices at which we sell specialty products are strongly influenced by the commodity price of crude oil. If crude oil prices increase, our specialty products segment margins will fall unless we are able to pass through these price increases to our customers. Increases in selling prices for specialty products typically lag behind the rising cost of crude oil and may be difficult to implement quickly enough when crude oil costs increase dramatically over a short period of time. For example, in the first six months of 2008, excluding the effects of hedges, we experienced a 31.3% increase in the cost of crude oil per barrel as compared to an 18.3% increase in the average sales price per barrel of our specialty products. It is possible we may not be able to pass through all or any portion of increased crude oil costs to our customers. In addition, we are not able to completely eliminate our commodity risk through our hedging activities.. Refining margins are volatile, and we have experienced fluctuations in our refining margins. There can be no assurance that our refining margins will not deteriorate. If our refining margins deteriorate, it will adversely affect the amount of cash we have available for funding operations, for distributions to our unitholders and for payments of our debt obligations.. We have identified three material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which, if not remediated, could result in material misstatements in our financial statements.. As of December 31, 2017, we have identified material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting that pertain to (1) the ineffective design and implementation of effective controls with respect to the implementation of our ERP system consistent with our financial reporting requirements, (2) the design and maintenance of information technology general controls for information systems that are relevant to the preparation of financial statements and (3) untimely and insufficient operation of controls in the financial statement close process, specifically lack of timely account reconciliation, analysis and review related to all financial statement accounts. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.. 25. Table of Contents. Although we have developed and are implementing a plan to remediate these material weaknesses and believe, based on our evaluation to date, that these material weaknesses will be remediated in a timely fashion, we cannot assure you that this will occur within a specific timeframe. These material weaknesses will not be remediated until all necessary internal controls have been implemented, tested and determined to be operating effectively. In addition, we may need to take additional measures to address the material weaknesses or modify the planned remediation steps, and we cannot be certain that the measures we have taken, and expect to take, to improve our internal controls will be sufficient to address the issues identified, to ensure that our internal controls are effective or to ensure that the identified material weaknesses will not result in a material misstatement of our consolidated financial statements. Moreover, we cannot assure you that we will not identify additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future.. If we are unable to remediate the material weaknesses, our ability to record, process and report financial information accurately, and to prepare financial statements within the time periods specified by the rules and forms of the Securities and Exchange Commission, could be adversely affected. This failure could negatively affect the market price and trading liquidity of our common units, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, subject us to civil and criminal investigations and penalties and generally materially and adversely impact our business and financial condition.. Our hedging activities may not be effective in reducing the volatility of our cash flows and may reduce our earnings, profitability and cash flows.. We are exposed to fluctuations in the price of crude oil, fuel products, natural gas and interest rates. From time to time, we utilize derivative financial instruments related to the future price of crude oil, natural gas, fuel products and their relationship with each other with the intent of reducing volatility in our cash flows due to fluctuations in commodity prices and spreads. Historically, we have utilized derivative instruments related to interest rates for future periods with the intent of reducing volatility in our cash flows due to fluctuations in interest rates. We are not able to enter into derivative financial instruments to reduce the volatility of the prices of the specialty products we sell as there is no established derivative market for such products.. The extent of our commodity price exposure is related largely to the effectiveness and scope of our hedging activities. The derivative instruments we utilize are based on posted market prices, which may differ significantly from the actual crude oil prices, natural gas prices or fuel products prices that we incur or realize in our operations. For example, excluding our crude oil basis swaps, all of the crude oil derivatives in our hedge portfolio are based on the market price of New York Mercantile Exchange (\"NYMEX\") WTI and the fuel products derivatives are all based on U.S. Gulf Coast market prices. In recent periods, the spread between NYMEX WTI and other crude oil indices (specifically Light Louisiana Sweet, Western Canadian Select and Brent, on which a portion of our crude oil purchases are priced) has changed period to period, which has reduced the effectiveness of certain crude oil hedges. Accordingly, our commodity price risk management policy may not protect us from significant and sustained increases in crude oil or natural gas prices or decreases in fuel products prices. Conversely, our policy may limit our ability to realize cash flows from crude oil and natural gas price decreases.. We have a policy to enter into derivative transactions related to only a portion of the volume of our expected purchase and sales requirements and, as a result, we will continue to have direct commodity price exposure to the unhedged portion of our expected purchase and sales requirements. Thus, we could be exposed to significant crude oil cost increases on a portion of our purchases. Please read Part II, Item 7A \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.\". Our actual future purchase and sales requirements may be significantly higher or lower than we estimate at the time we enter into derivative transactions for such period. If the actual amount is higher than we estimate, we will have greater commodity price exposure than we intended. If the actual amount is lower than the amount that is subject to our derivative financial instruments, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our derivative transactions without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale or purchase of the underlying physical commodity, which may result in a substantial diminution of our liquidity. As a result, our hedging activities may not be as effective as we intend in reducing the volatility of our cash flows. In addition, our hedging activities are subject to the risks that a counterparty may not perform its obligations under the applicable derivative instrument, the terms of the derivative instruments are imperfect, and our hedging policies and procedures are not properly followed. It is possible that the steps we take to monitor our derivative financial instruments may not detect and prevent violations of our risk management policies and procedures, particularly if deception or other intentional misconduct is involved.. Our financing arrangements contain operating and financial provisions that restrict our business and financing activities.. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our financing arrangements, including our revolving credit facility, indentures governing each series of our outstanding senior notes and master derivative contracts, do currently restrict, and any future financing agreements could restrict, our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities, including restrictions on our ability to, among other things:. • sell assets, including equity interests in our subsidiaries;. • pay distributions on or redeem or repurchase our units or redeem or repurchase our subordinated debt and, in the case of the 2021 Secured Notes, our unsecured notes;. 26. Table of Contents. • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred units;. • create or incur certain liens;. • make certain acquisitions and investments;. • redeem or repay other debt or make other restricted payments;. • enter into transactions with affiliates;. • enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us;. • create unrestricted subsidiaries;. • enter into sale and leaseback transactions;. • enter into a merger, consolidation or transfer or sale of assets, including equity interests in our subsidiaries; and. • engage in certain business activities.. Our revolving credit facility also contains a springing financial covenant which provides that, if availability under the revolving credit facility falls below the sum of the amount of FILO loans outstanding plus the greater of (a) 10% of the Borrowing Base (as defined in the revolving credit agreement) then in effect and (b) $35.0 million, then we will be required to maintain as of the end of each fiscal quarter a Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio (as defined in the revolving credit agreement) of at least 1.0 to 1.0 until availability under the revolving credit facility exceeds the greater of the foregoing amounts for 30 consecutive days.. Our existing indebtedness imposes, and any future indebtedness may impose, a number of covenants on us regarding collateral maintenance and insurance maintenance. As a result of these covenants and restrictions, we will be limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs.. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our financing arrangements may be affected by events beyond our control. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants and restrictions may be impaired. A failure to comply with the covenants, ratios or tests in our financing arrangements or any future indebtedness could result in an event of default under these financing arrangements, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Among other things, in the event of any default on our indebtedness, our debt holders and lenders:. • will not be required to lend any additional amounts to us;. • could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable;. • could elect to require that all obligations accrue interest at the default rate, if such rate has not already been imposed;. • may have the ability to require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings;. • may prevent us from making debt service payments under our other agreements, any of which could result in an event of default under our other financing arrangements; or. • in the case of our revolving credit facility or the 2021 Secured Notes, foreclose on the collateral pledged pursuant to the terms of the revolving credit facility or indenture governing the 2021 Secured Notes, respectively.. If our existing indebtedness were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that we would have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to repay such indebtedness in full. Even if new financing were available, it may be on terms that are less attractive to us than our then existing indebtedness or it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. In addition, our obligations under our revolving credit facility are secured by a first-priority lien on our accounts receivable, inventory and substantially all of our cash; our 2021 Secured Notes are secured by a first-priority lien on all of the fixed assets that secure our obligations under our secured hedge agreements; and our obligations under our master derivative contracts are secured by a first-priority lien on our and our subsidiaries' real property, plant and equipment, fixtures, intellectual property, certain financial assets, certain investment property, commercial tort claims, chattel paper, documents, instruments and proceeds of the forgoing (including proceeds of hedge agreements), and if we are unable to repay our indebtedness under the revolving credit facility or master derivative contracts, the lenders under our revolving credit facility and the counterparties to our master derivative contracts could seek to foreclose on these assets. Please read Part II, Item 7 \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Liquidity and Capital Resources  -  Debt and Credit Facilities,\" \" -  Short-Term Liquidity,\" \" -  Long-Term Financing,\" and \" -  Master Derivative Contracts\" for additional information regarding our long-term debt.. Decreases in the price of crude oil may lead to a reduction in the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility and our ability to issue letters of credit or the requirement that we post substantial amounts of cash collateral for derivative instruments, which could adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and our ability to distribute cash to our unitholders.. We rely on borrowings and letters of credit under our revolving credit agreement to purchase crude oil or other feedstocks for our facilities, lease certain precious metals for use in our refinery operations and enter into derivative instruments of crude oil. 27. Table of Contents. and natural gas purchases and fuel products sales. From time to time, we also rely on our ability to issue letters of credit to enter into certain hedging arrangements in an effort to reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of crude oil, natural gas and crack spreads. The borrowing base under our revolving credit facility is determined weekly or monthly depending upon availability levels or the existence of a default or event of default. Reductions in the value of our inventories as a result of lower crude oil prices could result in a reduction in our borrowing base, which would reduce the amount of financial resources available to meet our capital requirements. Furthermore, our borrowing base may be subject to decreases due to the sale of inventories and accounts as part of a divestiture. If, under certain circumstances, our available capacity under our revolving credit facility falls below certain threshold amounts, or a default or event of default exists, then our cash balances in a dominion account established with the administrative agent will be applied on a daily basis to our outstanding obligations under our revolving credit facility. In addition, decreases in the price of crude oil or increases in crack spreads may require us to post substantial amounts of cash collateral to our hedging counterparties in order to maintain our derivative instruments. If, due to our financial condition or other reasons, the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility decreases, we are limited in our ability to issue letters of credit or we are required to post substantial amounts of cash collateral to our hedging counterparties, our liquidity, financial condition and our ability to distribute cash to our unitholders could be materially and adversely affected. Please read Part II, Item 7 \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Liquidity and Capital Resources  -  Debt and Credit Facilities\" for additional information.. Implementation of our new enterprise resource planning system has adversely impacted and could continue to negatively affect our business.. We rely extensively on information systems and technology to manage our business and summarize our operating results. We have implemented a new enterprise resource planning (\"ERP\") system to further enhance operating efficiencies and provide more effective management of our business operations, including processing sales orders and invoicing, inventory control, purchasing and supply chain management, human resources, and financial reporting. The new ERP system was deployed for use throughout our company in the third quarter of 2017. Implementing a new ERP system is costly, and has required, and will continue to require, the investment of significant personnel and financial resources. In addition, a new ERP system involves risks inherent in the conversion to a new system, including loss of information, disruption to our normal operations, changes in accounting procedures and internal control over financial reporting, as well as problems achieving accuracy in the conversion of electronic data. In particular, the implementation of our ERP system has resulted in operating and reporting disruptions, including limitations on our ability to ship and bill customers, project our inventory requirements, manage our supply chain, maintain current and complete books and records, maintain an effective internal control environment and meet external reporting deadlines.. Management is executing a plan to resolve these issues. However, failure to properly or adequately address any issues with the new system could result in increased costs, the diversion of management's and employees' attention and resources and could materially adversely affect our operating results, internal controls over financial reporting and ability to manage our business effectively. While the ERP system is intended to further improve and enhance our information systems, large scale implementation of a new information system exposes us to the risks of starting up the new system and integrating that system with our existing systems and processes, including possible continued disruption of our financial reporting, which could lead to a failure to make required filings under the federal securities laws on a timely basis.. We must make substantial capital expenditures on our refineries and other facilities to maintain their reliability and efficiency. If we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs and/or in a timely manner, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, and our ability to make distributions to unitholders, could be adversely affected.. Delays or cost increases related to the engineering, procurement and construction of new facilities, or improvements and repairs to our existing facilities and equipment, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Such delays or cost increases may arise as a result of unpredictable factors in the marketplace, many of which are beyond our control, including:. • denial or delay in obtaining regulatory approvals and/or permits;. • unplanned increases in the cost of equipment, materials or labor;. • disruptions in transportation of equipment and materials;. • severe adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires or spills) affecting our facilities, or those of our vendors and suppliers;. • shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages;. • market-related increases in a project's debt or equity financing costs; and/or. • nonperformance or declarations of force majeure by, or disputes with, our vendors, suppliers, contractors or sub-contractors.. 28. Table of Contents. Our refineries have been in operation for many years. Equipment, even if properly maintained, may require significant capital expenditures and expenses to keep it operating at optimum efficiency.. Any one or more of these occurrences noted above could have a significant impact on our business. If we were unable to make up the delays or to recover the related costs, or if market conditions change, it could materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows and, as a result, our ability to make distributions.. We depend on certain key crude oil and other feedstock suppliers for a significant portion of our supply of crude oil and other feedstocks, and the loss of any of these key suppliers or a material decrease in the supply of crude oil and other feedstocks generally available to our facilities could materially reduce our ability to make distributions to unitholders and payments of our debt obligations.. We purchase crude oil and other feedstocks from major oil companies as well as from various crude oil gatherers and marketers primarily in Texas, north Louisiana, North Dakota and Canada. In 2017, subsidiaries of Plains supplied us with approximately 11.6% of our total crude oil supplies under term contracts and month-to-month evergreen crude oil supply contracts. In 2017, BP supplied us with approximately 54.1% of our total crude oil supplies under the BP Purchase Agreement. Each of our facilities is dependent on one or more of these suppliers and the loss of any of these suppliers would adversely affect our financial results to the extent we were unable to find another supplier of this substantial amount of crude oil on acceptable terms. We maintain short-term and long-term contracts with our suppliers. For example, the majority of our contracts with Plains are currently month-to-month and terminable upon 90 days' notice, and our contract with BP was amended and restated in December 2016 for a term ending March 2020 and will automatically renew for successive one-year terms unless terminated by either party upon 90 days' notice.. We purchase all of our crude oil supply directly from third-party suppliers, generally under month-to-month evergreen supply contracts and on the spot market. Evergreen contracts are generally terminable upon 30 days' notice and purchases on the spot market may expose us to changes in commodity prices. For additional discussion regarding our crude oil and feedstock supply, please read Items 1 and 2 \"Business and Properties  -  Our Crude Oil and Feedstock Supply.\". To the extent that our suppliers reduce the volumes of crude oil and other feedstocks that they supply us as a result of our existing credit ratings or perception of our creditworthiness or declining production or competition or otherwise, our sales, net income and cash available for distribution to unitholders and payments of our debt obligations would decline unless we were able to acquire comparable supplies of crude oil and other feedstocks on comparable terms from other suppliers. Finding comparable suppliers may not be possible in areas where the supplier that reduces its volumes is the primary supplier in the area. Fluctuations in crude oil prices can greatly affect production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil reserves. Drilling activity generally decreases as crude oil prices decrease. We have no control over the level of drilling activity in the fields that supply our refineries, the amount of reserves underlying the wells in these fields, the rate at which production from a well will decline or the production decisions of producers. A material decrease in either the crude oil production from or the drilling activity in the fields that supply our refineries, as a result of depressed commodity prices, natural gas production declines, governmental moratoriums on drilling or production activities, the availability and the cost of capital or otherwise, could result in a decline in the volume of crude oil we refine.. From time to time, we may seek to divest portions of our business that are no longer core to our strategy, which could materially affect our results of operations and result in disruption to other parts of the business.. As demonstrated in 2016 with the disposition of our 50% equity interest in Dakota Prairie and in 2017 with the dispositions of the Superior Refinery and Anchor, we may continue to dispose of portions of our current business or assets, based on a variety of factors and strategic considerations, consistent with our strategy of preserving liquidity and streamlining our business to better focus on the advancement of our core business. These dispositions, together with any other future dispositions we make, may involve risks and uncertainties, including disruption to other parts of our business, potential loss of employees, customers or revenue, exposure to unanticipated liabilities or result in ongoing obligations and liabilities to us following any such divestiture. For example, in connection with a disposition, we may enter into transition services agreements or other strategic relationships, which may result in additional expense. In addition, in connection with a disposition, we may be required to make representations about the business and financial affairs of the business or assets. We may also be required to indemnify the purchasers to the extent that our representations turn out to be inaccurate or with respect to certain potential liabilities. These indemnification obligations may require us to pay money to the purchasers as satisfaction of their indemnity claims.  It may also take us longer than expected to fully realize the anticipated benefits of these transactions, and those benefits may ultimately be smaller than anticipated or may not be realized at all, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Further, such divestitures may result in proceeds to us in an amount less than we expect or less than our assessment of the value of those assets. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. 29. Table of Contents. We depend on certain third-party pipelines for transportation of crude oil and refined fuel products, and if these pipelines become unavailable to us, our revenues and cash available for distributions to our unitholders and payment of our debt obligations could decline.. Our Shreveport refinery is interconnected to a pipeline that supplies a portion of its crude oil and a pipeline that ships a portion of its refined fuel products to customers, such as pipelines operated by subsidiaries of Enterprise Products Partners L.P. and Plains. Our Great Falls refinery receives crude oil through the Front Range pipeline system via the Bow River Pipeline in Canada. Our San Antonio refinery receives crude oil through the Karnes North Pipeline System in Texas. Since we do not own or operate any of these pipelines, their continuing operation is not within our control. In addition, any of these third-party pipelines could become unavailable to transport crude oil or our refined fuel products because of acts of God, accidents, earthquakes or hurricanes, government regulation, terrorism or other third-party events. For example, our refinery run rates were affected by an approximately three-week shutdown during May and June 2011 of the ExxonMobil crude oil pipeline serving our Shreveport refinery resulting from the Mississippi River flooding occurring during this period. In addition, ExxonMobil shut down this pipeline on April 28, 2012, after a leak was discovered. The unavailability of any of these third-party pipelines for the transportation of crude oil or our refined fuel products, because of acts of God, accidents, earthquakes or hurricanes, government regulation, terrorism or other third-party events, could lead to disputes or litigation with certain of our suppliers or a decline in our sales, net income and cash available for distributions to our unitholders and payments of our debt obligations.. The price volatility of fuel and utility services may result in decreases in our earnings, profitability and cash flows.. The volatility in costs of fuel, principally natural gas, and other utility services, principally electricity, used by our refinery and other operations affect our net income and cash flows. Fuel and utility prices are affected by factors outside of our control, such as supply and demand for fuel and utility services in both local and regional markets. Natural gas prices have historically been volatile.. For example, daily prices for natural gas as reported on the NYMEX ranged between $3.42 and $2.56 per million British thermal unit (\"MMBtu\") in 2017, and between $1.64 and $3.93 per MMBtu in 2016. Typically, electricity prices fluctuate with natural gas prices. Future increases in fuel and utility prices may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Fuel and utility costs constituted approximately 14.6% and 12.6% of our total operating expenses included in cost of sales for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. If our natural gas costs rise, they will adversely affect the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders and payments of our debt obligations.. Our refineries, blending and packaging sites, terminals and related facility operations face operating hazards, and the potential limits on insurance coverage could expose us to potentially significant liability costs.. Our refineries, blending and packaging sites, terminals and related facility operations are subject to certain operating hazards, and our cash flow from those operations could decline if any of our facilities experience a major accident, pipeline rupture or spill, explosion or fire, is damaged by severe weather or other natural disaster, or otherwise is forced to curtail its operations or shut down. These operating hazards could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage and may result in significant curtailment or suspension of our related operations.. Although we maintain insurance policies, including personal and property damage and business interruption insurance for each of our facilities, we cannot ensure that this insurance will be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to potential future claims for personal and property damage or significant interruption of operations. Our business interruption insurance will not apply unless a business interruption exceeds 60 days. Furthermore, we may be unable to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies have increased and could escalate further. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. In addition, we are not fully insured against all risks incident to our business because certain risks are not fully insurable, coverage is unavailable, or premium costs, in our judgment, do not justify such expenditures. For example, we are not insured for all environmental liabilities, including, but not limited to, product spills and other releases at all of our facilities. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could affect our financial condition and diminish our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. We may incur significant environmental costs and liabilities in the operation of our refineries, terminals and related facilities.. The operation of our refineries, blending and packaging sites, terminals, and related facilities subject us to the risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities due to our handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes, because of air emissions and water discharges related to our operations and activities, and as a result of historical operations and waste disposal practices at our facilities or in connection with our activities, some of which may have been conducted by prior owners or operators. We currently own or operate properties that for many years have been used for industrial or oilfield activities, including refining and blending operations or terminal storage operations, sometimes by third parties over whom we had or continue to have no control. 30. Table of Contents. with respect to their operations or waste disposal activities. Petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes have been released on, under or from the properties owned or operated by us. For example, we are investigating and remediating, in some cases pursuant to government order, soil and groundwater contamination at our Great Falls refinery arising from a predecessor operators' handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes. While we believe our costs in pursuing these investigatory and remedial activities are subject to reimbursement under a contractual indemnification right we received from the predecessor operator in the share purchase agreement transferring ownership of this refinery, this predecessor operator is currently disputing responsibility for reimbursement of certain of these remedial costs being incurred at our Great Falls refinery, which dispute had resulted in the filing of a suit by us against the predecessor operator and the matter is currently in arbitration. Additionally, joint and several, strict liability may be incurred in connection with releases of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes on, under or from our properties and facilities. Neither the owners of our general partner nor their affiliates have indemnified us for any environmental liabilities, including those arising from non-compliance or pollution that may be discovered at, or arise from operations on, the assets they contributed to us in connection with the closing of our initial public offering. Private parties, including the owners of properties adjacent to our operations and facilities where our petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance or other sources of indemnity. To the extent that the costs associated with meeting any or all of these requirements are significant and not adequately secured or indemnified for, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We are subject to compliance with stringent environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities.. Our refining, blending and packaging site, terminal and related facility operations are subject to stringent federal, regional, state and local laws and regulations governing worker health and safety, the discharge of materials into the environment and environmental protection. These laws and regulations impose numerous obligations that are applicable to our operations, including the obligation to obtain permits to conduct regulated activities, the incurrence of significant capital expenditures for air pollution control equipment to otherwise limit or prevent releases of pollutants from our refineries, blending and packaging sites, terminals, and related facilities, the expenditure of significant monies in the application of specific health and safety criteria addressing worker protection, the requirement to maintain information about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations and to provide this information to employees, state and local government authorities, and local residents and the incurrence of significant costs and liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations or from those of prior owners or operators of our facilities. Numerous federal governmental authorities, such as the EPA and OSHA as well as state agencies, such as the LDEQ, TCEQ and the MDEQ, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, often requiring difficult and costly actions. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations as well as any issued permits and orders may result in the assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal sanctions, including monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations or corrective actions or the incurrence of capital expenditures, the occurrence of delays in the permitting, development or expansion of projects, and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations.. On occasion, we receive notices of violation, other enforcement proceedings and regulatory inquiries from governmental agencies alleging non-compliance with applicable environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations. For example, we have pending proceedings with the LDEQ involving a series of alleged unauthorized emissions of pollutants from equipment at the Shreveport refinery, as described in a draft \"Consolidated Compliance Order and Notice of Potential Penalty\" issued in April 2013, for which a penalty of more than $0.1 million may result.. New worker safety and environmental laws and regulations, new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, increased governmental enforcement or other developments could require us to make additional unforeseen expenditures. Many of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly stringent, and the cost of compliance with these requirements can be expected to increase. For example, in April 2014, the EPA published its final Tier 3 fuel standards that require, among other things, a lower allowable sulfur level in gasoline to no more than 10 ppm by January 1, 2017. In another example, on October 1, 2015, the EPA issued a final rule under the CAA lowering the NAAQS for ground-level ozone to 70 parts per billion under both the primary and secondary standards. The EPA published a final rule in November 2017 that issued area designations with respect to ground-level ozone for approximately 85% of the U.S. counties as either \"attainment/unclassifiable\" or \"unclassifiable\" and is expected to issue attainment or non-attainment designations for the remaining areas of the U.S. not addressed under the November 2017 final rule in the first half of 2018. Reclassification of areas or imposition of more stringent standards may make it more difficult to construct new or modified sources of air pollution in newly designated non-attainment areas. Also, states are expected to implement more stringent requirements as a result of this new final rule, which could apply to our and our customers' operations. One or more of these regulatory initiatives or any new environmental laws or regulations could impact us by requiring installation of new emission controls on some of our equipment, resulting in longer permitting timelines, and significantly increasing our capital expenditures and operating costs, which could adversely impact our business, cash flows and results of operation. Please read Items 1 and 2 \"Business and Properties  -  Environmental and Occupational Health and Safety Matters\" for additional information.. 31. Table of Contents. Renewable transportation fuels mandates may reduce demand for the petroleum fuels we produce, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. The EPA has issued RFS mandates, requiring refiners such as us to blend renewable fuels into the petroleum fuels they produce and sell in the U.S. We, and other refiners subject to RFS, may meet the RFS requirements by blending the necessary volumes of renewable transportation fuels produced by us or purchased from third parties. To the extent that refiners will not or cannot blend renewable fuels into the products they produce in the quantities required to satisfy their obligations under the RFS program, those refiners must purchase renewable credits, referred to as RINs, to maintain compliance. To the extent that we exceed the minimum volumetric requirements for blending of renewable transportation fuels, we generate our own RINs for which we have the option of retaining the RINs for current or future RFS compliance or selling those RINs on the open market.. Under RFS, the volume of renewable fuels that obligated parties are required to blend into their finished petroleum fuels increases annually over time until 2022. Each year until 2022, the EPA sets mandates for the production of cellulosic biofuel, biomass-based diesel, advanced biofuel, and total renewable fuel volume that applies to all gasoline and diesel produced or imported during the applicable year. Most recently, the EPA published final volume mandates in December 2017 for RFS program years 2018 (relating to conventional renewable fuel volumes such as corn ethanol) and 2019 (relating to biomass-based diesel). The EPA's December 2017 final volume mandates maintain the conventional (i.e., corn ethanol) renewable fuel volume at 15 billion gallons, the statutory level, which remains the same as the level for 2017. The EPA slightly increased the advanced biofuels volume slightly from the 2017 RFS mandate, from 4.28 billion gallons to 4.29 billion gallons. The final 2018 cellulosic biofuel volume is set at 288 million gallons, which represents a reduction from the 2017 level of 311 million gallons. EPA also set a separate biodiesel volume for 2019 at 2.1 billion gallons, unchanged from the mandate previously finalized for 2018.. Our Shreveport, Great Falls and San Antonio refineries are normally subject to compliance with the RFS mandates. However, the EPA granted our fuel products refineries a \"small refinery exemption\" under the RFS in the past years including, most recently, in the 2016 calendar year, as provided under the CAA. Under these exemptions granted by the EPA, such exempt refineries were not subject to the requirements of RFS as an \"obligated party\" for fuels produced at these \"small\" refineries for those calendar years. While we received a small refinery exemption for certain of our refineries in past years, there is no assurance that such an exemption will be obtained for any of our refineries in future years, which would result in the need for more RINs for the applicable calendar year. Our gross 2017 annual RINs Obligation, which includes RINs that were required to be secured through either our own blending or through the purchase of RINs in the open market, was 113 million RINs for the 2017 calendar year.. The EPA's implementation of the RFS program has been subject to numerous court challenges. For example, the D.C. Circuit remanded the 2016 final volume mandate to the EPA, and challenges to the 2017 remain pending in that court as well. Additional lawsuits have been filed by refiners attempting to move the point of compliance for the RFS program from refiners to importers and blenders and of fuels. We cannot predict the outcome of these matters or whether they may result in increased RFS program compliance costs. Moreover, the price of RINs remains subject to extreme volatility, with the potential for significant increases in price. There also continues to be a shortage of advanced biofuel production resulting in increased difficulties meeting RFS program mandates. It is possible we could find ourselves unable to blend sufficient quantities of ethanol and biodiesel to meet our requirements and would, therefore, have to purchase an increasing number of RINs. It is not possible at this time to predict with certainty what those volumes or costs may be, but given the potential increase in volumes and the volatile price of RINs, increases in renewable volume requirements could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. Existing laws, regulations or regulatory initiatives could change and, notwithstanding that the EPA's volume mandates for 2018 and 2019 may be relatively lower than the statutory mandates, such volume mandates could be increased in the future. Because we do not produce renewable transportation fuels at all of our refineries, increasing the volume of renewable fuels that must be blended into our products causes an increase in volume of our Shreveport, Great Falls and San Antonio refineries' fuel products pool, potentially resulting in lower earnings and materially adversely affecting our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. The inability to receive an exemption under the RFS program for one or more of our refineries, any increase in the final minimum volumes of renewable fuels that must be blended with refined petroleum fuels, and/or any increase in the cost to acquire RINs may, individually or in the aggregate, have the potential to result in significant costs in connection with RIN compliance, which costs could be material. Finally, there is no current regulatory standard that authenticates RINs that may be purchased on the open market from third parties and, while we believe that the RINs we purchase are from reputable sources, are valid and serve to demonstrate compliance with applicable RFS requirements, if any such RINs purchased by us on the open market are subsequently found to be invalid, then we may incur significant costs, penalties or other liabilities in connection with replacing such invalid RINs.. 32. Table of Contents. Our arrangement with Macquarie exposes us to Macquarie-related credit and performance risk.. On March 31, 2017, we entered into several agreements with Macquarie to support the operations of the Great Falls refinery (the \"Great Falls Supply and Offtake Agreements\"). On June 19, 2017, we entered into several agreements with Macquarie to support the operations of the Shreveport refinery (the \"Shreveport Supply and Offtake Agreements\", and together with the Great Falls Supply and Offtake Agreements, the \"Supply and Offtake Agreements\"). We have Supply and Offtake Agreements with Macquarie, pursuant to which Macquarie will intermediate crude oil supplies and refined product inventories at our Great Falls and Shreveport refineries. Macquarie will own all of the crude oil in our tanks and substantially all of our refined product inventories prior to our sale of the inventories. Upon termination of the Supply and Offtake Agreements, which may be terminated by Macquarie with nine months' notice any time prior to June 2019, we are obligated in certain scenarios to repurchase all crude oil and refined product inventories then owned by Macquarie and located at the specified storage facilities at then current market prices. Relying on Macquarie's ability to honor its supply and offtake obligations exposes us to Macquarie's credit and business risks. An adverse change in Macquarie's business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition could adversely affect its ability to perform its obligations, which could consequently have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or liquidity and, as a result, our business and operating results. In addition, we may be required to use substantial capital to repurchase crude oil and refined product inventories from Macquarie upon termination of the agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. The repurchase obligations under the Supply and Offtake Agreements may be at substantially higher cost than which we sold the inventory.. Downtime for maintenance at our refineries and facilities will reduce our revenues and cash available for distributions to our unitholders and payments of our debt obligations.. Our refineries and facilities consist of many processing units, a number of which have been in operation for a long time. One or more of the units may require additional unscheduled downtime for unanticipated maintenance or repairs that are more frequent than our scheduled turnaround for each unit every one to five years. Scheduled and unscheduled maintenance reduce our revenues and increase our operating expenses during the period of time that our processing units are not operating and could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders and payments of our debt obligations.. An impairment of our equity method investments, our long-lived assets or goodwill could reduce our earnings or negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.. We continually monitor our business, the business environment and the performance of our operations to determine if an event has occurred that indicates that an equity method investment, a long-lived asset or goodwill may be impaired. If an event occurs, which is a determination that involves judgment, we may be required to utilize cash flow projections to assess our ability to recover the carrying value based on the ability to generate future cash flows. Under GAAP, during the year ended December 31, 2015, we recognized an impairment charge on our equity method investment in Juniper GTL LLC of $24.3 million. Additionally, during the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, we recognized goodwill impairment charges of $0.7 million and $34.8 million, respectively. In 2017, we recorded impairment on long-lived assets primarily at our San Antonio refinery and Missouri facility totaling $206.6 million. Our equity method investments, long-lived assets and goodwill impairment analyses are sensitive to changes in key assumptions used in our analysis, such as expected future cash flows, the degree of volatility in equity and debt markets and our unit price. If the assumptions used in our analysis are not realized, it is possible a material impairment charge may need to be recorded in the future. We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of long-lived assets or goodwill. Further, as we continue to develop our strategy regarding certain of our non-core assets, we will need to continue to evaluate the carrying value of those assets. Any additional impairment charges that we may take in the future could be material to our results of operations and financial condition.. Our asset reconfiguration and enhancement initiatives may not result in revenue or cash flow increases, may be subject to significant cost overruns and are subject to regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic risks, which could adversely affect our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition.. Historically we have grown our business in part through the reconfiguration and enhancement of our existing refinery assets. For example, we completed an expansion project at our Shreveport refinery to increase throughput capacity and crude oil processing flexibility in May 2008. Additionally, in February 2016 we completed an expansion project that increased production capacity at our Great Falls refinery by 15,000 bpd to 25,000 bpd. These expansion projects and the construction of other additions or modifications to our existing refineries have involved and will continue to involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political, legal, labor and economic uncertainties beyond our control, which could cause delays in construction or require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital, and which we may finance with additional indebtedness or by issuing additional equity securities. Our forecasted internal rates of return on such projects are also based on our projections of future market fundamentals, which are not within our control, including changes in general economic conditions, available alternative supply and customer demand. For example, the total cost of the Shreveport refinery expansion project completed in 2008 was approximately $375.0 million and was significantly over budget due primarily to increased construction labor costs. Future reconfiguration and enhancement projects. 33. Table of Contents. may not be completed at the budgeted cost, on schedule, or at all due to the risks described above which could significantly affect our cash flows and financial condition.. We face substantial competition from other refining companies.. The refining industry is highly competitive. Our competitors include large, integrated, major or independent oil companies that, because of their more diverse operations, larger refineries or stronger capitalization, may be better positioned than we are to withstand volatile industry conditions, including shortages or excesses of crude oil or refined products or intense price competition at the wholesale level. If we are unable to compete effectively, we may lose existing customers or fail to acquire new customers. For example, if a competitor attempts to increase market share by reducing prices, our operating results and cash available for distribution to our unitholders and payments of our debt obligations could be reduced.. A decrease in the demand for our specialty products could adversely affect our ability to resume distributions to our unitholders and to make payments of our debt obligations.. Changes in our customers' products or processes may enable our customers to reduce consumption of the specialty products that we produce or make our specialty products unnecessary. Should a customer decide to use a different product due to price, performance or other considerations, we may not be able to supply a product that meets the customer's new requirements. In addition, the demand for our customers' end products could decrease, which could reduce their demand for our specialty products. Our specialty products customers are primarily in the industrial goods, consumer goods and automotive goods industries and we are therefore susceptible to overall economic conditions, which may change demand patterns and products in those industries. Consequently, it is important that we develop and manufacture new products to replace the sales of products that mature and decline in use. If we are unable to manage successfully the maturation of our existing specialty products and the introduction of new specialty products, our revenues, net income and cash available for distribution to our unitholders and payments of our debt obligations could be reduced.. A decrease in demand for fuel products in the markets we serve could adversely affect our ability to resume distributions to our unitholders and to make payments of our debt obligations.. Any sustained decrease in demand for fuel products in the markets we serve could result in a significant reduction in our cash flows, reducing our ability to make distributions to unitholders and payments of our debt obligations. Factors that could lead to a decrease in market demand include, among others:. • a recession or other adverse economic condition that results in lower spending by consumers on gasoline, diesel and travel;. • higher fuel taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that increase, directly or indirectly, the cost of fuel products;. • an increase in fuel economy or the increased use of alternative fuel sources;. • an increase in the market price of crude oil that leads to higher refined product prices, which may reduce demand for fuel products;. • competitor actions; and. • availability of raw materials.. We depend on unionized labor for the operation of many of our facilities. Any work stoppages or labor disturbances at these facilities could disrupt our business.. Substantially all of our operating personnel at our Shreveport, Great Falls, Princeton, Cotton Valley, Karns City, Dickinson and Missouri facilities are employed under collective bargaining agreements. If we are unable to renegotiate these agreements as they expire, any work stoppages or other labor disturbances at these facilities could have an adverse effect on our business and impact our ability to make distributions to our unitholders and payments of our debt obligations. In addition, employees who are not currently represented by labor unions may seek union representation in the future, and any renegotiation of current collective bargaining agreements may result in terms that are less favorable to us.. Because of the volatility of crude oil and refined products prices, our method of valuing our inventory may result in decreases in net income.. The nature of our business requires us to maintain substantial quantities of crude oil and refined product inventories. Because crude oil and refined products are essentially commodities, we have no control over the changing market value of these inventories. Because our inventory is valued at the lower of cost or market (\"LCM\") value, if the market value of our inventory were to decline to an amount less than our cost, we would record a write-down of inventory and a non-cash charge to cost of sales. In a period of decreasing crude oil or refined product prices, our inventory valuation methodology may result in decreases in net income. For example, due to the increase in crude oil prices in 2016, we recorded a favorable LCM inventory adjustment of $38.4 million.. 34. Table of Contents. Inadequate liquidity could materially and adversely affect our business operations in the future.. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our obligations, we may be forced to reduce our capital expenditures, seek additional equity or debt capital or restructure our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be affected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our liquidity is constrained by our need to satisfy our obligations under our credit agreements and our Supply and Offtake Agreements. The availability of capital when the need arises will depend upon a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include general economic and financial market conditions, the crack spread, natural gas and crude oil prices, our credit ratings, interest rates, market perceptions of us or the industries in which we operate, our market value and our operating performance. We may be unable to execute our long-term operating strategy if we cannot obtain capital from these or other sources when the need arises.. The operating results for our fuel products segment, including the asphalt we produce and sell, are seasonal and generally lower in the first and fourth quarters of the year.. The operating results for our fuel products segment, including the selling prices of asphalt products we produce, can be seasonal. Asphalt demand is generally lower in the first and fourth quarters of the year as compared to the second and third quarters due to the seasonality of road construction. Demand for gasoline is generally higher during the summer months than during the winter months due to seasonal increases in highway traffic. In addition, our natural gas costs can be higher during the winter months. Our operating results for the first and fourth calendar quarters may be lower than those for the second and third calendar quarters of each year as a result of this seasonality.. Our Supply and Offtake Agreements with Macquarie include provisions for early termination and could represent a refinancing risk.. When we executed the Supply and Offtake Agreements, the inventories associated with such agreements were taken out of our revolving credit facility borrowing base.  As such, these inventories are not part of our revolving credit facility.  Should Macquarie choose to exercise its option to terminate the Supply and Offtake Agreements by giving nine months' notice any time prior to June 2019 of such termination, we would need to seek alternative sources of financing, including putting the inventory back into our revolving credit facility, to meet our obligation to repurchase the inventory at then current market prices.  In addition, the cost of repurchasing the inventory may be at higher prices than we sold the inventory. Currently, the price of crude oil is well above the price at which we sold the inventory, so unless the price of crude oil falls, we will have to pay more for the inventory than the price we sold the inventory for. Should we be unable to include the inventory in our borrowing base, we could suffer significant reductions in liquidity when Macquarie terminates the Supply and Offtake Agreements and we have to repurchase the inventories.. Due to our lack of asset and geographic diversification, adverse developments in our operating areas would impact our ability to make distributions to our unitholders and payments of our debt obligations.. We rely primarily on sales generated from products processed at the facilities we own. Furthermore, the majority of our assets and operations are located in Louisiana, Montana and Texas. Due to our lack of diversification in asset type and location, an adverse development in these businesses or areas, including adverse developments due to catastrophic events or weather, decreased supply of crude oil and feedstocks and/or decreased demand for refined petroleum products, would have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition and results of operations than if we maintained more diverse assets in more diverse locations, which in turn could impact our ability to make distributions to our unitholders and payments of our debt obligations.. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of GHG could result in increased operating costs and a decreased demand for our refined products.. Climate change continues to attract considerable public, governmental and scientific attention. As a result, numerous proposals have been made and are likely to continue to be made at the international, national, regional and state levels of government to monitor and limit emissions of GHGs. These efforts have included consideration of cap-and-trade programs, carbon taxes, GHG reporting and tracking programs and regulations that directly limit GHG emissions from certain sources. At the federal level, no comprehensive climate change legislation has been implemented to date but a number of states or grouping of states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs, primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or GHG cap-and-trade programs. Additionally, the EPA has adopted rules under authority of the federal CAA that, among other things, establish PSD construction and Title V operating permit reviews for GHG emissions from certain large stationary sources that are also potential major sources of certain principal, or criteria, pollutant emissions, which reviews could require securing PSD permits at covered facilities emitting GHGs and meeting \"best available control technology\" standards for those GHG emissions. In addition, the EPA has adopted rules requiring the monitoring and annual reporting of GHG emissions from certain petroleum and natural gas system sources in the U.S., including, among others, onshore and offshore production facilities, which include certain of our producing customers' operations. In October 2015, the EPA amended and expanded the GHG reporting requirements to all segments of the oil and natural gas industry.. 35. Table of Contents. In June 2016, the EPA published Subpart Quad OOOOa standards that require certain new, modified or reconstructed facilities in the oil and natural gas sector to reduce these methane gas and volatile organic compound emissions. These Subpart OOOOa standards will expand previously issued Subpart OOOO standards published by the EPA in 2012, by using certain equipment-specific emissions control practices. However, the Quad OOOOa standards have been subject to attempts by the EPA to stay portions of those standards, and the agency proposed a rulemaking in June 2017 to stay the requirements for a period of two years and revisit implementation of Subpart OOOOa in its entirety. The EPA has not yet published a final rule and, as a result, the June 2016 rule remains in effect but future implementation of the 2016 standards is uncertain at this time. These rules, should they remain in effect, and any other new methane emission standards imposed on the oil and gas sector could result in increased costs to our operations as well as result in delays or curtailment in such operations, which costs, delays or curtailment could adversely affect our business.. On an international level, in December 2015, the U.S. joined the international community at the 21st Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Paris, France that requires member countries to review and \"represent a progression\" in their intended nationally determined contributions, which set GHG emission reduction goals every five years beginning in 2020. This \"Paris Agreement\" was signed by the United States in April 2016 and entered into force in November 2016; while this agreement does not create any binding obligations for nations to limit their GHG emissions, it does include pledges to voluntarily limit or reduce future emissions. In August 2017, the U.S. State Department informed the United Nations of the intent of the United States to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. The Paris Agreement provides for a four-year exit process beginning when it took effect in November 2016, which would result in an effective exit date of November 2020. The United States' adherence to the exit process and/or the terms on which the United States may re-enter the Paris Agreement or a separately negotiated agreement are unclear at this time.. The adoption and implementation of any international, federal or state legislation or regulations that require reporting of GHGs or otherwise restrict emissions of GHGs from our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHG associated with our operations or could adversely affect demand for the refined petroleum products that we produce. Recently, activists concerned about the potential effects of climate change have directed their attention at sources of funding for fossil-fuel energy companies, which has resulted in certain financial institutions, funds and other sources of capital restricting or eliminating their investment in oil and natural gas activities. Ultimately, this could make it more difficult to secure funding for exploration and production activities and result in decreased production of oil, which indirectly could have an adverse impact on our operations. Notwithstanding potential risks related to climate change, the International Energy Agency estimates that global energy demand will continue to rise and will not peak until after 2040 and that oil and natural gas will continue to represent a substantial percentage of global energy use over that time. Finally, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHG in the atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climate events that could have an adverse effect on our operations and the operations of our customers.. Our business involves the shipping by rail of crude oil, which involves risks of derailment, accidents and liabilities associated with cleanup and damages, as well as regulatory changes that may adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our operations involve the purchasing of crude oil and shipping it by rail on railcars that we lease. Past derailments of trains transporting crude oil in the U.S. and Canada have caused various regulatory agencies and industry organizations, as well as federal, state and municipal governments, to focus attention on transportation of flammable materials by rail. In May 2015, the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (\"PHMSA\") adopted a final rule that, among other things, imposes a new tank car design standard, a phase out by as early as January 2018 for older DOT-111 tank cars that are not retrofitted, and a classification and testing program for unrefined petroleum based products, including crude oil. The rule also includes new operational requirements such as speed restrictions. On December 13, 2017, PHMSA announced that it would initiate a rulemaking to rescind the May 2015 rule's requirement regarding electronically controlled pneumatic brakes. The Canadian government's transportation department has also issued new regulations that align with the U.S. rule in many respects.. In August 2016, PHMSA released a final rule mandating a phase-out schedule for all DOT-111 tank cars used to transport Class 3 flammable liquids, including crude oil and ethanol, between 2018 and 2029. Additionally, in July 2016, PHMSA proposed a new rule that would expand the applicability of comprehensive oil spill response plans so that any railroad that transports a single train carrying 20 or more loaded tanks of liquid petroleum oil in a continuous block or a single train carrying 35 or more loaded tank cars of liquid petroleum oil throughout the train must have a current, comprehensive written plan. PHMSA has not yet issued a final version of the rule. In response to a petition from the New York Attorney General, PHMSA issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking (\"ANPR\") in January 2017 stating that it is considering revising the Hazardous Materials Regulations (\"HMR\") to establish vapor pressure limits for unrefined petroleum-based products and potentially all Class 3 flammable liquid hazardous materials that would apply during the transportation of the products or materials by any mode. PHMSA has not yet issued a final version of the rule. In addition, in February 2016, the Federal Railroad Administration modified its accident and incident reports to gather additional data concerning rail cars carrying crude oil in any train involved in a Federal Railroad Agency-. 36. Table of Contents. reportable accident. In addition to action taken or proposed by federal agencies, a number of states proposed or enacted laws in recent years that encourage safer rail operations or urge the federal government to strengthen requirements for these operations.. We have reviewed the final rule in detail to assess the expected impact on our business, including the potential impact on the tank cars that we lease to transport our products, and determined some of our tank cars could require upgrades or replacements. We are unable to predict what impact these or other regulatory changes may have, if any, on our business or the industry as a whole. As a result of the final rule, certain of our tank cars that we lease could be deemed unfit for further commercial use beginning in January 2018 or require retrofits or modifications, and the costs associated with any required retrofits or modifications could be substantial. In addition, the new tank car design requirements may result in significant constraints on transportation capacity during the period while tank cars are being retrofitted or newly constructed to comply with the new regulations. Such transportation capacity constraints could increase the cost of transporting crude oil by rail. We cannot assure that costs incurred to comply with any new standards and regulations, including those finalized by PHMSA in 2015 and 2016, will not be material to our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, any derailment involving crude oil that we have purchased or are shipping may result in claims being brought against us that may involve significant liabilities. Although we believe that we are adequately insured against such events, we cannot provide assurance that our policies will cover the entirety of any damages that may arise from such an event.. We could be subject to damages based on claims brought against us by our customers or lose customers as a result of the failure of our products to meet certain quality specifications.. Our specialty products provide precise performance attributes for our customers' products. If a product fails to perform in a manner consistent with the detailed quality specifications required by the customer, the customer could seek replacement of the product or damages for costs incurred as a result of the product failing to perform as guaranteed. A successful claim or series of claims against us could result in a loss of one or more customers and impact our ability to make distributions to unitholders and payments of our debt obligations.. The enactment of derivatives legislation could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to hedge risks associated with our business.. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Act\"), enacted on July 21, 2010, established federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as us, that participate in that market. The Act requires the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (\"CFTC\") and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the Act. Although the CFTC has finalized certain regulations, others remain to be finalized or implemented and it is not possible at this time to predict when this will be accomplished.. In its rulemaking under the Act, the CFTC has re-proposed rules to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents, subject to exceptions for certain bona fide hedging transactions. As these new position limit rules are not yet final, their impact on us is uncertain at this time.. The CFTC has designated certain interest rate swaps and credit default swaps for mandatory clearing and the associated rules also require us, in connection with covered derivative activities, to comply with clearing and trade-execution requirements or take steps to qualify for an exemption to such requirements. Although we believe that we qualify for the end-user exceptions to the mandatory clearing and trade execution requirements with respect to those swaps entered to hedge our commercial risks, the application of such requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the cost and availability of the swaps that we use for hedging. In addition, certain banking regulators and the CFTC have adopted final rules establishing minimum margin requirements for uncleared swaps. Although we expect to qualify for the end-user exception from such margin requirements for swaps entered into to hedge our commercial risks, the application of such requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the cost and availability of the swaps that we use for hedging. If any of our swaps do not qualify for the commercial end-user exception, posting of collateral could impact liquidity and reduce cash available to us for capital expenditures, therefore reducing our ability to execute hedges to reduce risk and protect cash flow.. The Act and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative instruments, materially alter the terms of derivative instruments, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter and reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivatives contracts. An increase in the cost of derivatives contracts would affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders and payments of our debt obligations. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Act and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures and make distributions to our unitholders and payments of our debt obligations. Finally, the Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the Act and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, our financial condition, and our results of operations.. 37. Table of Contents. In addition, the European Union and other non-U.S. jurisdictions are implementing regulations with respect to the derivatives market. To the extent we transact with counterparties in foreign jurisdictions, we may become subject to such regulations.. We depend on key personnel for the success of our business and the loss of those persons could adversely affect our business and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders and payments of our debt obligations.. The loss of the services of any member of senior management or key employee could have an adverse effect on our business and reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders and payments of our debt obligations. We may not be able to locate or employ on acceptable terms qualified replacements for senior management or other key employees if their services were no longer available. We have employment agreements in place with respect to Timothy Go and F. William Grube. We do not maintain any key-man life insurance.. An increase in interest rates will cause our debt service obligations to increase.. Borrowings under our revolving credit facility bear interest at a rate equal to prime plus a basis points margin or LIBOR plus a basis points margin, at our option. As of December 31, 2017, there were outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility of $0.2 million and $67.3 million in standby letters of credit were issued under our revolving credit facility. The interest rate is subject to adjustment based on fluctuations in the London Interbank Offered Rate (\"LIBOR\") or prime rate, as applicable. An increase in the interest rates associated with our floating-rate debt would increase our debt service costs and affect our results of operations and cash flow available for distribution to our unitholders. In addition, an increase in interest rates could adversely affect our future ability to obtain financing or materially increase the cost of any additional financing.. A change of control could result in us facing substantial repayment obligations under our revolving credit agreement, our senior notes, our Collateral Trust Agreement and our Supply and Offtake Agreements.. Certain events relating to a change of control of our general partner, our partnership and our operating subsidiaries would constitute an event of default under our revolving credit agreement, the indentures governing our senior notes, our Collateral Trust Agreement and our Supply and Offtake Agreements. In addition, an event of default under our revolving credit agreement would likely constitute an event of default under our master derivatives contracts and the BP Purchase Agreement. As a result, upon a change of control event, we may be required immediately to repay the outstanding principal, any accrued interest on and any other amounts owed by us under our revolving credit facility,  the senior notes and Supply and Offtake Agreements and the outstanding payment obligations under our master derivatives contracts and the BP Purchase Agreement. The source of funds for these repayments would be our available cash or cash generated from other sources and there can be no assurance that we would have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to repay such indebtedness and other payment obligations in full.. In addition, our obligations under our revolving credit facility are secured by a first-priority lien on our accounts receivable, inventory and substantially all of our cash; our 2021 Secured Notes are secured by a first-priority lien on all of the fixed assets that secure our obligations under our secured hedge agreements; and our obligations under our master derivatives contracts and the BP Purchase Agreement are secured by a first-priority lien on our and our subsidiaries' real property, plant and equipment, fixtures, intellectual property, certain financial assets, certain investment property, commercial tort claims, chattel paper, documents, instruments and proceeds of the forgoing (including proceeds of hedge agreements). If we are unable to repay our indebtedness under the revolving credit facility or the 2021 Secured Notes, satisfy the payment obligations under our master derivative contracts or the payment obligations under the BP Purchase Agreement or obtain waivers of such defaults, then the lenders under our revolving credit facility, the holders of our 2021 Secured Notes, the derivative counterparties under our master derivative contracts and BP, respectively, would have the right to foreclose on those assets, which would have a material adverse effect on us. There is no restriction in our partnership agreement on the ability of our general partner to enter into a transaction which would trigger the change of control provisions of our revolving credit facility agreement, the indentures governing our senior notes, our Collateral Trust Agreement or our Supply and Offtake Agreements.. We are subject to cybersecurity risks and other cyber incidents resulting in disruption.. Threats to information technology systems associated with cybersecurity risks and cyber incidents or attacks continue to grow. We depend on information technology systems. In addition, our use of the internet, cloud services and other public networks exposes our business and that of other third parties with whom we do business to cyber-attacks that attempt to gain unauthorized access to data and systems, intentional or inadvertent releases of confidential information, corruption of data and disruption of critical systems and operations.  Despite the security measures we have in place and any additional measures we may implement in the future, our facilities and systems, and those of our third-party service providers, could be vulnerable to security breaches, computer viruses, lost or misplaced data, programming errors, human errors, acts of vandalism or other events. Any disruption of our systems or security breach or event resulting in the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, whether by us directly or our third-party service providers, could damage our reputation, expose us to the risks of litigation and liability, disrupt our business or otherwise affect our results of operations.  In addition, as cyber-attacks continue to evolve in magnitude and sophistication, and our reliance on digital technologies continues to grow, we may be required to expend. 38. Table of Contents. additional resources in order to continue to enhance our cyber security measures and to investigate and remediate any digital systems, related infrastructure, technologies and network security vulnerabilities.. We are exposed to trade credit risk in the ordinary course of our business activities.. We are exposed to risks of loss in the event of nonperformance by our customers and by counterparties of our derivative instruments. Some of our customers and counterparties may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. Even if our credit review and analysis mechanisms work properly, we may experience financial losses in our dealings with other parties. Any increase in the nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers and/or counterparties could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders and payments of our debt obligations.. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us. At April 2, 2018, the families of our chairman, executive vice chairman, The Heritage Group and certain of their affiliates own an approximate 21.0% limited partner interest in us and own and control our general partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations. Our general partner and its affiliates have conflicts of interest and limited fiduciary duties, which may permit them to favor their own interests to other unitholders' detriment.. At April 2, 2018, the families of our chairman, executive vice chairman, The Heritage Group, and certain of their affiliates own an approximate 21.0% limited partner interest in us. In addition, The Heritage Group and the families of our chairman and executive vice chairman own our general partner. Conflicts of interest may arise between our general partner and its affiliates, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, the general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations:. • our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as its affiliates, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to our unitholders;. • our general partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties under our partnership agreement and has also restricted the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. As a result of purchasing common units, unitholders consent to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under Delaware law;. • our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities, and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to unitholders;. • our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us;. • our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and whether a capital expenditure is a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or a capital expenditure for acquisitions or capital improvements, which does not. This determination can affect the amount of cash that is available for distribution to our unitholders and payments of our debt obligations;. • our general partner has the flexibility to cause us to enter into a broad variety of derivative transactions covering different time periods, the net cash receipts or payments from which will increase or decrease operating surplus and adjusted operating surplus, with the result that our general partner may be able to shift the recognition of operating surplus and adjusted operating surplus between periods to increase the distributions it and its affiliates receive on their incentive distribution rights; and. • in some instances, our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make incentive distributions.. The Heritage Group and certain of its affiliates may engage in limited competition with us.. Pursuant to the omnibus agreement we entered into in connection with our initial public offering, The Heritage Group and its controlled affiliates have agreed not to engage in, whether by acquisition or otherwise, the business of refining or marketing specialty lubricating oils, solvents and wax products as well as gasoline, diesel and jet fuel products in the continental U.S. for so long as it controls us. This restriction does not apply to certain assets and businesses which are more fully described under Part III, Item 13 \"Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence  -  Omnibus Agreement.\". Although Mr. Grube is prohibited from competing with us pursuant to the terms of his employment agreement, the owners of our general partner, other than The Heritage Group, are not prohibited from competing with us, except to the extent described above. Currently, The Heritage Group is an active marketer of asphalt products and has been engaged in this business for much longer than us. In certain geographical areas, there can be overlap where both The Heritage Group and we market asphalt.. 39. Table of Contents. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner's fiduciary duties to our unitholders and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement:. • permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner. Examples include the exercise of its limited call right, its voting rights with respect to the units it owns, its registration rights and its determination whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of our partnership or amendment of our partnership agreement;. • provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning it believed the decision was in the best interests of our partnership;. • generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or be \"fair and reasonable\" to us. In determining whether a transaction or resolution is \"fair and reasonable,\" our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; and. • provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that such person's conduct was criminal.. By purchasing a common unit, a unitholder agrees to be bound by the provisions in the partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above.. Unitholders have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors.. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. Unitholders do not elect our general partner or its board of directors, and have no right to elect our general partner or its board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner is chosen by the members of our general partner. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, the vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all outstanding units voting together as a single class is required to remove the general partner. At April 2, 2018, the owners of our general partner and certain of their affiliates own approximately 21.0% of our common units. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price.. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of those unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units.. Unitholders' voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees, and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders' ability to influence the manner or direction of management.. Our general partner interest or control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of the members of our general partner from transferring their respective membership interests in our general partner to a third party. The new members of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with their own choices and thereby control the decisions taken by the board of directors.. We do not have our own officers and employees and rely solely on the officers and employees of our general partner and its affiliates to manage our business and affairs.. We do not have our own officers and employees and rely solely on the officers and employees of our general partner and its affiliates to manage our business and affairs. We can provide no assurance that our general partner will continue to provide us the. 40. Table of Contents. officers and employees that are necessary for the conduct of our business nor that such provision will be on terms that are acceptable to us. If our general partner fails to provide us with adequate personnel, our operations could be adversely impacted and our cash available for distribution to unitholders and payments of our debt obligations could be reduced.. We may issue additional common units without unitholder approval, which would dilute our current unitholders' existing ownership interests.. We may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests of any type without the approval of our unitholders. Our partnership agreement does not give our unitholders the right to approve our issuance of common units or equity securities ranking junior to the common units at any time. In addition, our partnership agreement does not prohibit the issuance by our subsidiaries of equity securities, which may effectively rank senior to the common units. The issuance of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank to the common units will have the following effects:. • our unitholders' proportionate ownership interest in us may decrease;. • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease;. • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished;. • the market price of the common units may decline; and. • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase.. Our general partner's determination of the level of cash reserves may reduce the amount of available cash for distribution to unitholders.. Our partnership agreement requires our general partner to deduct from operating surplus cash reserves that it establishes are necessary to fund our future operating expenditures. In addition, our partnership agreement also permits our general partner to reduce available cash by establishing cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business, to comply with applicable law or agreements to which we are a party, or to provide funds for future distributions to partners. These reserves will affect the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders.. We have a holding company structure in which our subsidiaries conduct our operations and own our operating assets and our ability to distribute cash to our unitholders and make payments of our debt obligations depends on the performance of our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us.. We are a holding company, and our subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to distribute cash to our unitholders and make payments of debt obligations depends on the performance of our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. The ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us is restricted by our revolving credit facility and the indentures governing our senior notes and may be restricted by, among other things, applicable state laws and other laws and regulations. If we are unable to obtain the funds necessary to distribute cash to our unitholders or make payments of debt obligations, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as a refinancing our indebtedness or incurring borrowings under our revolving credit facility. We cannot assure unitholders that we would be able to refinance our indebtedness or that the terms on which we could refinance our indebtedness would be favorable.. Cost reimbursements due to our general partner and its affiliates will reduce cash available for distribution to unitholders and payments of our debt obligations.. Prior to making any distribution on the common units, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all expenses they incur on our behalf. Any such reimbursement will be determined by our general partner and will reduce the cash available for distribution to unitholders and payments of our debt obligations. These expenses will include all costs incurred by our general partner and its affiliates in managing and operating us. Please read Part III, Item 13 \"Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence.\". Our general partner has a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell their units at an undesirable time or price.. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the issued and outstanding common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which right it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, unitholders may be required to sell their common units to our general partner, its affiliates or us at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their common units. At April 2, 2018, our general partner and its affiliates own approximately 21.0% of our common units.. Unitholder liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business.. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is. 41. Table of Contents. organized under Delaware law and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. Unitholders could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if they were a general partner if:. • a court or government agency determined that we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state's partnership statute; or. • unitholders' right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute \"control\" of our business.. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them.. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, which we call the Delaware Act, we may not make a distribution to our unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Purchasers of units who become limited partners are liable for the obligations of the transferring limited partner to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the purchaser of the units at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted.. Our common units have a low trading volume compared to other units representing limited partner interests.. Our common units are traded publicly on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol \"CLMT.\" However, our common units have a low average daily trading volume compared to many other units representing limited partner interests quoted on the NASDAQ Global Select Market.. The market price of our common units may continue to be volatile and may also be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:. • our quarterly distributions or failure to provide such distributions;. • our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry;. • changes in commodity prices or refining margins;. • loss of a large customer;. • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions;. • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;. • general economic conditions;. • the failure of securities analysts to cover our common units or changes in financial estimates by analysts;. • future sales of our common units; and. • the other factors described in Item 1A \"Risk Factors\" of this Annual Report.. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders. Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, or if we become subject to material additional amounts of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced.. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. Despite the fact that we are organized as a limited partnership under Delaware law, we would be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes unless we satisfy a \"qualifying income\" requirement. Based upon our current operations and private letter rulings we have received with respect to certain aspects of our business, we believe we satisfy the qualifying income requirement. Failing to meet the qualifying income requirement or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity.. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders could be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation. 42. Table of Contents. would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units.. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to a material amount of entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the anticipated quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law or interpretation on us. At the state level, several states have been evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise, or other forms of taxation. Imposition of a similar tax on us in the jurisdictions in which we operate or in other jurisdictions to which we may expand could substantially reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. The tax treatment of publicly-traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis.. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly-traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. For example, from time to time, members of Congress propose and consider such substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that affect publicly-traded partnerships. Although there is no such current legislative proposal, a prior legislative proposal would have eliminated the qualifying income exception to the treatment of all publicly-traded partnerships as corporations upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. In addition, on January 24, 2017, final regulations regarding which activities give rise to qualifying income within the meaning of Section 7704 of the Code (the \"Final Regulations\") were published in the Federal Register. Although we are still studying the application of the Final Regulations to portions of our business, the Final Regulations reflect a number of changes from the proposed regulations that are responsive to our requests for clarifications to the proposed regulations. Although we anticipate that the vast majority of our income will qualify under new standards adopted by the Final Regulations, because of our private letter rulings portions of our income that may not qualify under the Final Regulations can be treated as qualifying throughout a ten-year transition period. However, there can be no assurance that there will not be further changes to the IRS's interpretation of the qualifying income rules that could impact our ability to qualify as a partnership in the future.. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible for us to meet the exception for certain publicly-traded partnerships to be treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. Any similar or future changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units.. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest by the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. Our costs of any contest by the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. We have requested and obtained a favorable private letter ruling from the IRS to the effect that, based on facts presented in the private letter ruling request, our income from refining, blending, processing, packaging, marketing and distribution of lubricants will constitute \"qualifying income\" within the meaning of Section 7704 of the Code.. If the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, it (and some states) may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustment directly from us, in which case our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced and our current and former unitholders may be required to indemnify us for any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustments that were paid on such unitholders' behalf.. Pursuant to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, if the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns, it (and some states) may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustment directly from us. To the extent possible under the new rules, our general partner may elect to either pay the taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly to the IRS or, if we are eligible, issue a revised information statement to each unitholder with respect to an audited and adjusted return. Although our general partner may elect to have our unitholders take such audit adjustment into account in accordance with their interests in us during the tax year under audit, there can be no assurance that such election will be practical, permissible or effective in all circumstances. As a result, our current unitholders may bear some or all of the tax liability resulting from such audit adjustment, even if such unitholders did not own units in us during the tax year under audit. If, as a result of any such audit adjustment, we are required to make payments of taxes, penalties and interest, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced and our current and former unitholders may be required to indemnify us for any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting. 43. Table of Contents. from such audit adjustments that were paid on such unitholders' behalf. These rules are not applicable for tax years beginning on or prior to December 31, 2017.. Unitholders will be required to pay taxes on their share of our taxable income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us, including their share of income from the cancellation of debt.. Unitholders will be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income, whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. Unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability which results from that income.. In response to current market conditions, we may engage in transactions to de-lever and manage our liquidity, which may result in income and gain to our unitholders without a corresponding cash distribution. For example, if we sell assets and use the proceeds to repay existing debt or fund capital expenditures, you may be allocated taxable income and gain resulting from the sale without receiving a cash distribution. Further, taking advantage of opportunities to reduce our existing debt, such as debt exchanges, debt repurchases or modifications of our existing debt, could result in \"cancellation of indebtedness income\" (also referred to as \"COD income\") being allocated to our unitholders as taxable income. Unitholders may be allocated COD income, and income tax liabilities arising therefrom may exceed cash distributions. The ultimate effect of any such allocations will depend on the unitholder's individual tax position with respect to its units. Unitholders are encouraged to consult their tax advisors with respect to the consequences to them of COD income.. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected.. If our unitholders sell their common units, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of a unitholder's allocable share of our net taxable income result in a decrease in such unitholder's tax basis in their common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units they sell will, in effect, become taxable income to our unitholders if they sell such units at a price greater than their tax basis in those units, even if the price they receive is less than their original cost. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if unitholders sell their units, they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash they receive from the sale.. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized from the sale of common units, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture of depreciation and deductions and certain other items. Thus, our unitholders may recognize both ordinary income and capital loss from the sale of their units if the amount realized on a sale of such units is less than their adjusted basis in the units. Net capital loss may only offset capital gains and, in the case of individuals, up to $3,000 of ordinary income per year. In the taxable period in which our unitholders sell their units, they may recognize ordinary income from our allocations of income and gain to them prior to the sale and from recapture items that generally cannot be offset by any capital loss recognized upon the sale of units.. Unitholders may be subject to limitation on their ability to deduct interest expense incurred by us.. In general, we are entitled to a deduction for interest paid or accrued on indebtedness properly allocable to our trade or business during our taxable year. However, under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, our deduction for \"business interest\" is limited to the sum of our business interest income and 30% of our \"adjusted taxable income.\" For the purposes of this limitation, our adjusted taxable income is computed without regard to any business interest expense or business interest income, and in the case of taxable years beginning before January 1, 2022, any deduction allowable for depreciation, amortization, or depletion.. Tax-exempt entities face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.. Investment in our common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs) raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from U.S. federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Further, with respect to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, a tax-exempt entity with more than one unrelated trade or business (including by attribution from investment in a partnership such as ours that is engaged in one or more unrelated trade or business) is required to compute the unrelated business taxable income of such tax-exempt entity separately with respect to each such trade or business (including for purposes of determining any net operating loss deduction). As a result, for years beginning after December 31, 2017, it may not be possible for tax-exempt entities to utilize losses from an investment in our partnership to offset unrelated business taxable income from another unrelated trade or business and vice versa. Tax-exempt entities should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units.. 44. Table of Contents. Non-U.S. Unitholders will be subject to U.S. taxes and withholding with respect to their income and gain from owning our units.. Non-U.S. unitholders are generally taxed and subject to income tax filing requirements by the United States on income effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business (\"effectively connected income\"). Income allocated to our unitholders and any gain from the sale of our units will generally be considered to be \"effectively connected\" with a U.S. trade or business.  As a result, distributions to a Non-U.S. unitholder will be subject to withholding at the highest applicable effective tax rate and a Non-U.S. unitholder who sells or otherwise disposes of a unit will also be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the gain realized from the sale or disposition of that unit.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act imposes a withholding obligation of 10% of the amount realized upon a Non-U.S. unitholder's sale or exchange of an interest in a partnership that is engaged in a U.S. trade or business. However, due to challenges of administering a withholding obligation applicable to open market trading and other complications, the IRS has temporarily suspended the application of this withholding rule to open market transfers of interests in publicly traded partnerships pending promulgation of regulations or other guidance that resolves the challenges.  It is not clear if or when such regulations or other guidance will be issued.  Non-U.S. unitholders should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units.. We have subsidiaries that are treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes and subject to corporate-level income taxes.. Even though we (as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes) are not subject to U.S. federal income tax, some of our operations are currently conducted through subsidiaries that are organized as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The taxable income, if any, of such subsidiaries are subject to corporate-level U.S. federal income taxes, which may reduce the cash available for distribution to us and, in turn, to our unitholders. If the IRS or other state or local jurisdictions were to successfully assert that these corporations have more tax liability than we anticipate or legislation was enacted that increased the corporate tax rate, the cash available for distribution could be further reduced. The income tax return filings positions taken by these corporate subsidiaries require significant judgment, use of estimates, and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. Significant judgment is also required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items. Despite our belief that the income tax return positions taken by these subsidiaries is fully supportable, certain positions may be successfully challenged by the IRS, state or local jurisdictions.. We will treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units.. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from unitholders' sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to their tax returns.. We will prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. We generally prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our common units each month based upon the ownership of our common units on the first day of each month (the \"Allocation Date\"), instead of on the basis of the date a particular common unit is transferred. Similarly, we generally allocate gain or loss realized on a sale or other disposition of our assets or, in the discretion of the general partner, any other extraordinary item of income, gain, loss or deduction on the Allocation Date. Nonetheless, we allocate certain deductions for depreciation of capital additions based upon the date the underlying property is placed in service. The U.S. Department of the Treasury adopted final Treasury Regulations allowing a similar monthly simplifying convention but such regulations do not specifically authorize all aspects of our proration method. If the IRS were to successfully challenge our proration method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss, and deduction among our unitholders.. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies in determining unitholder's allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction. The IRS may challenge these methods or the resulting allocations, and such a challenge could adversely affect the value of our common units.. In determining the items of income, gain, loss and deduction allocable to our unitholders, we must routinely determine the fair market value of our respective assets. Although we may from time to time consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, we make many fair market value estimates using a methodology based on the market value of our common units as a means to measure the fair market value of our respective assets. The IRS may challenge these valuation methods and the resulting allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction.. 45. Table of Contents. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount, character, and timing of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders' sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions.. A unitholder whose common units are the subject of a securities loan (e.g., a loan to a \"short seller\" to cover a short sale of common units) may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.. Because there are no specific rules governing the U.S. federal income tax consequences of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose common units are the subject of a securities loan may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units. In that case, the unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller should modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their common units.. Unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where they do not live as a result of investing in our common units.. In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. We own assets and conduct business in most states. Our unitholders may be required to file foreign, state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in any state in which we now or may conduct business in the future. Further, they may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states or foreign jurisdictions that impose a personal income tax. It is the responsibility of our unitholders to file all U.S. federal, foreign, state and local tax returns."
