[1] "Item 1A.     Risk Factors.. This section should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company and the notes thereto included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.. Risks Related to our Business. Changes in funding or budget priorities at public schools could cause the demand for our products to decrease.. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from public schools, which are heavily dependent on federal, state and local government funding. Budget cuts, curtailments, delays, changes in leadership, shifts in priorities or general reductions in funding could reduce or delay our revenues. Funding difficulties experienced by schools could also cause those institutions to demand price reductions and could slow or reduce purchases of educational products, which in turn could materially harm our business. Our business may be adversely affected by changes in educational funding at the federal, state or local level, resulting from changes in legislation, changes in state procurement processes, changes in government leadership, emergence of other funding or legislative priorities, and changes in the condition of the local, state or U.S. economy.. Changes in school procurement policies may adversely affect our business and limit our ability to forecast the timing of sales.. The school appropriations process is often slow, unpredictable and subject to many factors outside of our control. School districts choose to procure educational materials in various ways which can change quickly necessitating a change in. 11. our sales strategy or sales investments. Districts and states may switch procurement decisions from a centralized (district-wide) to a decentralized (school by school) decision, states may switch from state-wide standard adoptions to flexible district level procurement, and customers could increasingly utilize competitive requests for proposals (RFP) or procurement. Any of these changes could limit our ability to forecast the timing of sales or cause us to modify our sales strategy or expend greater sales effort to win business and if we are slow to respond the result could be a material loss of market share.. Our business is anticipated to be seasonal and our operating results are anticipated to fluctuate seasonally.. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations as a result of school procurement patterns. The quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past, and our quarterly results of operations can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. Our first quarter historically represents less than 15% of Bookings, which tend to build through the second quarter and peak during the third quarter, representing the preponderance of orders, revenue, and income each year.. Our intellectual property protection may be inadequate, which may allow others to use our intellectual property and thereby reduce our ability to compete.. The intellectual property underlying our services and products may be vulnerable to attack by our competitors. We rely on a combination of trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, employee and third party nondisclosure agreements and other contracts to establish and protect our technology and other intellectual property rights. The steps that we have taken in order to protect our proprietary intellectual property may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our assets or to prevent third parties from developing similar offerings independently.. Our products could infringe on the intellectual property of others, which may cause us to engage in costly litigation and to pay substantial damages or restrict or prohibit us from selling our products.. Third parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us based on their intellectual property rights. If any of these claims are successful, we may be required to pay substantial damages, possibly including treble damages, for past infringement. We also may be prohibited from selling our products or providing certain content without first obtaining a license from the third party, which, if available at all, may require us to pay additional fees or royalties to the third party. Even if infringement claims against us are without merit, defending a lawsuit takes significant time, is often expensive and may divert management attention away from other business concerns.. Our success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain key personnel.. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified executives and management, as well as creative and technical personnel. Members of our senior management team have substantial industry experience that is critical to the execution of our business plan. If they or other key employees were to leave our company, and we were unable to find qualified and affordable replacements for these individuals in a timely manner, our business could be harmed materially.. We could experience system failures, software errors or capacity constraints, any of which would cause interruptions in the delivery of electronic content to customers and we could experience security breaches to our systems. The occurrence of any such systems failures and security breaches ultimately may cause us to lose customers.. Any significant delays, disruptions or failures in the systems, or errors in the software that we use for our technology-enabled products, as well as for internal operations, could harm our business materially. We have occasionally suffered computer and telecommunication outages or related problems in the past. The growth of our customer base, as well as the number of websites we provide, could strain our systems in the future and will likely magnify the consequences of any computer and telecommunications problems that we may experience.. Furthermore, destruction or disruption of data center sites could cause a system-wide failure. Claims for damages as a result of system failures could exceed the coverage of the property insurance we maintain on these premises. In addition, our products could be affected by failures associated with third party hosting providers or by failures of third party technology used in our products, and we may have no control over remedying these failures.. Additionally, our systems and websites may be vulnerable to unauthorized access by hackers, computer viruses and other disruptive problems. Any security breaches or problems could lead to misappropriation of our customers' information, our websites, our intellectual property and other rights, as well as disruption in the use of our systems and websites. Any security breach related to our websites could tarnish our reputation and expose us to damages and litigation. We also may incur significant costs to maintain our security precautions or to correct problems caused by security breaches. Furthermore,. 12. to maintain these security measures, we may be required to monitor our customers' access to our websites, which may cause disruption to customers' use of our systems and websites. These disruptions and interruptions could harm our business materially.. Federal and state regulation of education and student information is rapidly evolving. Our reputation is one of our most important assets, and any adverse events, such as data privacy breaches or violation of privacy laws or regulations, could cause significant reputational damage and could have an adverse effect on our operating results.. Federal and state regulations for privacy are currently in flux and are likely to remain so for the foreseeable future. Practices regarding the collection, use, storage, display, processing, transmission and security of personal information by companies offering online services have recently come under increased public scrutiny.. Examples of regulations that could be applicable to our company include the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA), relating to access to and the use of information received from children in respect to our online offerings, the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), which imposes parental or student consent requirements for specified disclosures of student information to third parties, and California's Student Online Personal Information Protection Act (SOPIPA), which protects student data from being used in certain non-educational contexts.. Adverse publicity stemming from a data or privacy breach, whether or not valid, could reduce demand for our products or adversely affect our relationship with customers. Further, a failure to adequately protect personal data, including that of customers or students, or other data security failures, such as cyber-attacks from third parties, could lead to penalties, significant remediation costs and reputational damage, including loss of future business.. We have a single distribution center and could experience significant disruption of business and ultimately lose customers in the event it was damaged, destroyed or experienced technological failure.. The inventory and fulfillment operations for our Voyager Sopris Learning segment are outsourced to a third-party warehouse location in the St. Louis, Missouri area. In the event that these distribution facilities were damaged, destroyed or experienced technological failure, we would be delayed in responding to customer requests. Additionally, business disruptions within the outsource provider that are out of our control could delay our ability to deliver printed materials to our customers in a timely manner. Customers often purchase materials very close to the school year and such delivery delays could cause our customers to turn to competitors for products they need immediately. The loss of customers could have a long-term, detrimental impact on our reputation and business.. Weather risks or natural disasters could disrupt our operations or could impact our customers which might negatively impact the timing or completion of sales.. Weather disruptions due to snowstorms, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods or fires, or other natural disasters, could disrupt our operations or adversely impact school districts in the United States or other domestic or international customers. If our customers are adversely affected by such events, this could result in reduced demand for our products and solutions during the event, impacting the timing of sales, or could impact the completion of sales.. Customer acceptance of our products could be impacted by changing educational standards or changing customer preferences.. If customer acceptance of our products is negatively impacted by changing educational standards, or if we fail to adapt and respond effectively to changing educational standards or market needs or preferences, our sales could decline or we may be required to expend more on investments in product development than planned.. Our international business exposes us to risks.. Our growth strategy includes expansion of sales outside of the United States, primarily through resellers and other third parties. For the year ended December 31, 2017, 9% of our revenue was derived from outside the United States. Our international sales involve a variety of risks, including potentially more stringent regulations related to data security and data privacy; potential technical challenges in delivering our educational products; limited or insufficient intellectual property protection; potential or actual violations of domestic and international anticorruption laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and dependence on third parties with whom we may not have much historical experience.. Risks Related to Debt and Ownership of our Common Stock. We do not foresee paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future and, as a result, our investors' sole source of gain, if any, will depend on capital appreciation, if any.. 13. We do not plan to declare or pay any cash dividends on our shares of common stock in the foreseeable future and currently intend to retain future earnings, if any, for future operation, debt reduction and expansion. Any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors, and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, restrictions imposed by applicable law, business and investment strategy, contractual limitations and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. In addition, our ability to pay dividends is limited by covenants of the existing Credit Agreement (described below). As a result, our stockholders may not receive any return on an investment in our common stock unless they sell our common stock for a price greater than that which they paid for it. Moreover, investors may not be able to resell their shares of our common stock at or above the price they paid for them.. The existence of a majority stockholder may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could delay, hinder or prevent a change in corporate control or result in the entrenchment of management and the board of directors, and our majority stockholder has a contractual right to maintain its percentage ownership in our company.. VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC, owns a majority of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC will likely have the ability to determine the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all our assets. In addition, VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC will likely have the ability to control our management, affairs and operations. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our common stock by delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination.. The ownership of a large block of stock by a single stockholder may reduce our market liquidity. Should VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC determine to sell any of its position in the future, sales of substantial amounts of our common stock on the market, or even the possibility of these sales, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. These sales, or even the possibility of these sales, also may make it more difficult for us to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities at a time and at a price we deem appropriate.. Moreover, VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC has a contractual right to maintain its percentage ownership in our company. Specifically, under the terms of a stockholders agreement entered into in connection with the mergers, if we were to engage in a new issuance of our securities, VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC and funds managed or controlled by Veronis Suhler Stevenson (\"VSS\") would have preemptive rights to purchase an amount of our securities that would enable them to maintain their same collective percentage of ownership in our company following the new issuance. VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC and funds managed or controlled by VSS would have these preemptive rights for so long as those entities collectively beneficially own, in the aggregate, at least 25% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Thus, while other holders of our securities would risk suffering a reduction in percentage ownership in connection with a new issuance of securities by us, VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC and funds managed or controlled by VSS would, through this preemptive right, have the opportunity to avoid a reduction in percentage ownership.. We are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the Nasdaq rules and, as a result, qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from various corporate governance standards, which limits the presence of independent directors on our board of directors and board committees.. Due to the fact that VSS-Cambium Holdings III, LLC owns a majority of our outstanding common stock, we are deemed a \"controlled company\" for purposes of Nasdaq Rule 5615(c)(2). Under this rule, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power for the election of directors is held by an individual, a group or another company is a \"controlled company\" and is exempt from certain Nasdaq corporate governance requirements, including requirements that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, that compensation of officers be determined or recommended to the board of directors by a majority of independent directors or by a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors and that director nominees be selected or recommended for selection by a majority of the independent directors or by a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors. We intend to rely upon these exemptions. Accordingly, our stockholders may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of other companies that are required to comply fully with the Nasdaq rules.. Since the \"controlled company\" exemption does not extend to the composition of audit committees, we are required to have an audit committee that consists of at least three directors, each of whom must be \"independent\" based on independence criteria set forth in Rule 10A-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the \"Exchange Act\"). Our board of directors has adopted an audit committee charter which will govern our audit committee. These three directors must also satisfy the requirements set forth in Nasdaq Rule 5605(a)(2) and (c)(2). The audit committee is currently composed entirely of independent directors.. 14. Provisions of our organizational documents and Delaware law may delay or deter a change of control.. Our organizational documents contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change of control of, or unsolicited acquisition proposals for, our company. These include provisions that:. • vest our board of directors with the sole power to set the number of directors of our company;. • limit the persons that may call special meetings of stockholders;. • establish advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations; and. • limit stockholder action by written consent.. In addition, Delaware corporate law makes it difficult for stockholders that recently have acquired a large interest in a corporation to cause the merger or acquisition of the corporation against the directors' wishes. Under Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporate Law (the \"DGCL\"), a Delaware corporation such as our company may not engage in any merger or other business combination with an interested stockholder or such stockholder's affiliates or associates for a period of three years following the date that such stockholder became an interested stockholder, except in limited circumstances, including by approval of the corporation's board of directors.. We have a significant amount of debt outstanding and will have the obligation to make scheduled principal and interest payments.. On December 10, 2015, we entered into a $135.0 million Senior Secured Credit Agreement (the \"Credit Agreement\") which provided for a term loan A which had an initial principal amount of $70.0 million (\"Term Loan A\"), a term loan B which had an initial principal amount of $35.0 million (\"Term Loan B\") and a $30.0 million revolving credit facility (the \"Revolving Credit Facility\") (together, the \"Senior Secured Credit Facility\"), secured by a lien on substantially all of our assets. The Senior Secured Credit Facility matures on December 10, 2020.. As of December 31, 2017, we have outstanding $48.5 million aggregate principal amount under our Credit Agreement, which requires scheduled quarterly principal payments, with the balance due at maturity. We may also be required to make an annual repayment based on an excess cash flow requirement, and may be subject to certain other prepayment requirements.. We are subject to risks associated with substantial indebtedness, including the risk that we will not be able to refinance existing indebtedness when it becomes due, the risk that we would not be able to secure alternative financing if we are unable to comply with the debt covenants or if we were to experience an event of default, and the risk that our cash flows from operations are insufficient to make scheduled interest payments. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of our debt. However, we may not be able to obtain any such new or additional financing on favorable terms or at all.. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that may limit our flexibility in operating our business.. The Credit Agreement contains a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions, including restrictions on our ability to engage in acts that may be in our best interest, including restrictions on our and our subsidiaries' ability to:. • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness;. • pay cash dividends and make other restricted payments;. • create or incur certain liens;. • make certain investments, loans or advances;. • transfer or sell assets;. • engage in certain transactions with affiliates;. • make acquisitions that total more than $30.0 million in the aggregate or $10.0 million individually; or. • enter into an agreement that represents a change in control.. Additionally, our Credit Agreement requires us to satisfy specified financial covenants, including a maximum total net leverage ratio and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, both as defined in the Credit Agreement. Our ability to meet those financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to continue to meet those covenants.. 15. A breach of the restrictive covenants or the financial covenants or the occurrence of other events specified in the Credit Agreement could result in an event of default under the Credit Agreement. Such a default, if not cured or waived, may allow the lender to accelerate the repayment of the debt and we may not have sufficient assets to make such repayments. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness. We have pledged substantially all of our assets as collateral under the Credit Agreement.. Our ability to use net operating loss (\"NOL\") carryforwards to reduce future tax payments could be negatively impacted if there is an \"ownership change\" as defined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code.. If the Company experiences an ownership change, as determined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (\"Section 382\") it could adversely impact the Company's ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards (NOLs) and other tax assets, which can be used to offset tax liabilities. The inability to utilize the NOLs would significantly increase the Company's cash tax burden, and could result in the NOLs expiring prior to their use.. In September 2016, the Company entered into a Tax Asset Protection Rights Agreement (the \"Rights Agreement\"), between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Rights Agent. The Rights Agreement is designed to preserve our substantial NOLs and other significant tax benefits which may be available to reduce potential future tax liabilities. The Rights Agreement is not intended to be an antitakeover measure or to deter offers that are fair and otherwise in the best interests of our stockholders."
