[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. Our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks.. 2. Table of Contents. Risks Associated with Capital Markets, Credit Markets, and Real Estate. Volatility in capital and credit markets, or other unfavorable changes in economic conditions, either nationally or regionally in one or more of the markets in which we operate, could adversely impact us.. The capital and credit markets are subject to volatility and disruption. We therefore may not be able to obtain new debt financing or refinance our existing debt on favorable terms or at all, which would adversely affect our liquidity, our ability to make distributions to shareholders, acquire assets and continue our development activities. Other weakened economic conditions, including job losses, high unemployment levels, stock market volatility, and uncertainty about the future, could adversely affect rental rates and occupancy levels. Unfavorable changes in economic conditions may have a material adverse impact on our cash flows and operating results.. Additional key economic risks which may adversely affect conditions in the markets in which we operate include the following:. • local conditions, such as an oversupply of apartments or other housing available for rent, or a reduction in demand for apartments in the area;. • declines in the financial condition of our residents, which may make it more difficult for us to collect rents from some residents;. • declines in market rental rates;. • low mortgage interest rates and home pricing, making alternative housing more affordable;. • government or builder incentives which enable home buyers to put little or no money down, making alternative housing options more attractive;. • regional economic downturns, including, but not limited to, business layoffs, downsizing and increased unemployment, which may impact one or more of our geographical markets; and. • increased operating costs, if these costs cannot be passed through to our residents.. Short-term leases expose us to the effects of declining market rents.. Our apartment leases are generally for a term of eighteen months or less. As these leases typically permit the residents to leave at the end of the lease term without penalty, our rental revenues are impacted by declines in market rents more quickly than if our leases were for longer terms.. Competition could limit our ability to lease apartments or increase or maintain rental income.. There are numerous housing alternatives which compete with our properties in attracting residents. Our properties compete directly with other multifamily properties, condominiums, single-family homes, third-party providers of short-term rentals and serviced apartments, which are available for rent or purchase in the markets in which our properties are located. This competitive environment could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease apartment homes at our present properties or any newly developed or acquired property, as well as on the rents realized.. We face risks associated with land holdings and related activities.. We hold land for future development and may in the future acquire additional land holdings. The risks inherent in purchasing, owning, and developing land increase as demand for apartments, or rental rates, decrease. Real estate markets are highly uncertain and, as a result, the value of undeveloped land may fluctuate significantly. In addition, carrying costs can be significant and can result in losses or reduced profitability. As a result, we hold certain land, and may in the future acquire additional land, in our development pipeline at a cost we may not be able to fully recover or at a cost which may preclude us from developing a profitable multifamily community. If there are subsequent changes in the fair market value of our land holdings which we determine is less than the carrying basis of our land holdings reflected in our financial statements plus estimated costs to sell, we may be required to take future impairment charges which would reduce our net income.. Potential reforms to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could adversely affect us.. There is significant uncertainty surrounding the futures of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Through their lender originator networks, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are significant lenders both to us and to buyers of our properties. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have a mandate to support multifamily housing through their financing activities and any changes to their mandates, further reductions in their size or the scale of their activities, or loss of their key personnel could have a significant adverse impact on us and may, among other things, lead to lower values for our assets and higher interest rates on our. 3. Table of Contents. borrowings. Fannie Mae's and Freddie Mac's regulator has set overall volume limits on most of Fannie Mae's and Freddie Mac's lending activities. The regulator in the future could require Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to focus more of their lending activities on small borrowers or properties the regulator deems affordable, which may or may not include our assets, which could also adversely impact us. In addition, the members of the current Presidential administration and House and Senate banking committees have announced the reform of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac is a priority, and there is uncertainty regarding the impact of these actions on us and buyers of our properties.. Risks Associated with Our Operations. Development, redevelopment and construction risks could impact our profitability.. We intend to continue to develop, redevelop and construct multifamily apartment communities for our portfolio. In 2018, we expect to incur costs between approximately $140 million and $160 million related to the construction of seven consolidated projects. Additionally, during 2018, we expect to incur costs between approximately $45 million and $55 million related to the start of new development activities, between approximately $37 million and $41 million related to repositions and revenue enhancing expenditures of existing properties and between approximately $28 million and $32 million in extensive redevelopment expenditures of existing properties. Our development, redevelopment and construction activities may be exposed to a number of risks which may increase our construction costs and decrease our profitability, including the following:. • inability to obtain, or delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy, and other required permits and authorizations;. • increased materials and labor costs, problems with contractors or subcontractors, or other costs including those costs due to errors and omissions which occur in the design or construction process;. • inability to obtain financing with favorable terms;. • inability to complete construction and lease-up of a community on schedule;. • forecasted occupancy and rental rates may differ from the actual results; and. • the incurrence of costs related to the abandonment of development opportunities which we have pursued and subsequently deemed unfeasible.. Our inability to successfully implement our development, redevelopment and construction strategy could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to satisfy our financial obligations and pay distributions to shareholders.. One of our wholly-owned subsidiaries is engaged in the business of providing general contracting services under construction contracts entered into between it and third parties (which may include our nonconsolidated affiliates). The terms of those construction contracts generally require this subsidiary to estimate the time and costs to complete a project to calculate the cost plus margin for the project fee, but not to exceed a maximum amount, and to assume the risk when these estimates may be greater than anticipated. As a result, profitability on those contracts is dependent on the ability to accurately predict such factors. The time and costs necessary to complete a project may be affected by a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed above, many of which are beyond this subsidiary's control. In addition, the terms of those contracts generally require this subsidiary to warrant its work for a period of time during which it may be required to repair, replace, or rebuild non-conforming work. Further, trailing liabilities, based on various legal theories such as claims of negligent construction, may result from such projects, and these trailing liabilities may go on for a number of years depending on the length of the statute of repose in the applicable jurisdictions.. Investments through joint ventures and discretionary funds involve risks not present in investments in which we are the sole investor.. We have invested and may continue to invest as a joint venture partner in joint ventures. These investments involve risks, including, but not limited to, the possibility the other joint venture partner may: have business goals which are inconsistent with ours, possess the ability to take or force action or withhold consent contrary to our requests, or become insolvent and require us to assume and fulfill the joint venture's financial obligations. We and our joint venture partners may each have the right to initiate a buy-sell arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, or acquire a joint venture partner's interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have entered into such a transaction. Each joint venture agreement is individually negotiated, and our ability to operate, finance, or dispose of a community in our sole discretion may be limited to varying degrees depending on the terms of the applicable joint venture agreement. The risks associated with our discretionary Funds, which we manage as the general partner and advisor, include, but are not limited to, the following:. • one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries is the general partner of the Funds and has unlimited liability for the third-party debts, obligations, and liabilities of the Funds pursuant to partnership law;. 4. Table of Contents. • investors in the Funds (other than us), by majority vote, may remove our subsidiary as the general partner of the Funds with or without cause and the Funds' advisory boards, by a majority vote of their members, may remove our subsidiary as the general partner of the Funds at any time for cause;. • while we have broad discretion to manage the Funds and make investment decisions on behalf of the Funds, the investors or the Funds' advisory boards must approve certain matters, and as a result we may be unable to make certain investments or implement certain decisions on behalf of the Funds which we consider beneficial;. • our ability to dispose of all or a portion of our investments in the Funds is subject to significant restrictions; and. • we may be liable if the Funds fail to comply with various tax or other regulatory matters.. Competition could adversely affect our ability to acquire properties.. We expect other real estate investors, including insurance companies, pension and investment funds, private investors, and other multifamily REITs, will compete with us to acquire additional operating properties. This competition could increase prices for the type of properties we would likely pursue and adversely affect our ability to acquire these properties or achieve the expected profitability of such properties upon acquisition.. Our acquisition strategy may not produce the cash flows expected.. We may acquire additional operating properties on a selective basis. Our acquisition activities are subject to a number of risks, including, but not limited to, the following:. • we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired properties into our existing operations;. • our estimates of the costs, if any, of repositioning or redeveloping the acquired property may prove inaccurate;. • the expected occupancy, rental rates and operating expenses may differ from the actual results;. • we may not be able to obtain adequate financing; and. • we may not be able to identify suitable candidates on terms acceptable to us and may not achieve expected returns or other benefits as a result of integration challenges, such as personnel and technology.. Failure to qualify as a REIT could have adverse consequences.. We may not continue to qualify as a REIT in the future. Also, the Internal Revenue Service may challenge our qualification as a REIT for prior years.. For any taxable year we fail to qualify as a REIT and do not qualify under statutory relief provisions:. • we would be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates including, for taxable years ended before January 1, 2018, any applicable alternative minimum tax;. • we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which we failed to qualify, thereby reducing our net income, including any distributions to shareholders, as we would be required to pay significant income taxes for the year or years involved; and. • our ability to expand our business and raise capital would be impaired, which may adversely affect the value of our common shares.. We may face other tax liabilities in the future which may impact our cash flow. These potential tax liabilities may be calculated on our income or property values at either the corporate or individual property levels. Any additional tax expense incurred would decrease the cash available for cash distributions to our common shareholders and non-controlling interest holders. Additionally, in order for us to continue to qualify as a REIT we must meet a number of organizational and operational requirements, including a requirement to distribute annual dividends to our shareholders equal to a minimum of 90% of our adjusted taxable income.. Tax laws have recently changed and may continue to change at any time, and any such legislative or other actions could have a negative effect on us.. The 2017 Tax Act was signed into law on December 22, 2017.  The law includes significant changes to the U.S. corporate income tax system, including a Federal corporate rate reduction from 35% to 21% for non-REIT \"C\" corporations, which may cause investors to perceive investments in REITs to be less attractive than investments in the stock of non-REIT \"C\" corporations.  The law also includes limitations on the deductibility of executive compensation, which may result in our being. 5. Table of Contents. required to pay higher dividends to continue to qualify as a REIT at a time and in an amount that otherwise may not be in the best interest for us or our shareholders.. In addition, tax laws remain under constant review by persons involved in the legislative process, at the Internal Revenue Service and the U.S. Department of Treasury, and by various state and local tax authorities.  Changes to tax laws, regulations, or administrative interpretations, which may be applied retroactively could adversely affect us in a number of additional ways, including making it more difficult or more costly for us to qualify as a REIT or decreasing real estate values generally.. We cannot predict the full impact of the 2017 Tax Act or whether, when, in what forms, or with what effective dates the tax laws, regulations and administrative interpretations applicable to us or our shareholders may be further changed.  Any of these matters may significantly affect our liquidity and results of operations, as well as the value of our shares.. Litigation risks could affect our business.. As a publicly-traded owner, manager and developer of multifamily properties, we may incur liability based on various conditions at our properties and the buildings thereon, and we also have become and in the future may become involved in legal proceedings, including consumer, employment, tort or commercial litigation, which if decided adversely to or settled by us, and not adequately covered by insurance, could result in liability which is material to our financial condition or results of operations.. Damage from catastrophic weather and other natural events could result in losses.. A certain number of our properties are located in areas that have experienced and may in the future experience catastrophic weather and other natural events from time to time, including fires, snow or ice storms, windstorms, tornadoes, hurricanes, earthquakes, flooding or other severe weather.  These adverse weather or natural events could cause substantial damages or losses to our properties which could exceed our insurance coverage.  In the event of a loss in excess of insured limits, we could lose our capital invested in the affected property, anticipated future revenue from the property, and could also continue to be obligated to repay any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the property.  Any such loss could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A cybersecurity incident and other technology disruptions could negatively impact our business.. We use technology in substantially all aspects of our business operations. We also use mobile devices, social networking, outside vendors and other online activities to connect with our employees, suppliers and residents. Such uses and the on-going advancement in technology give rise to potential cybersecurity risks with increasing sophistication, including but not limited to, security breach, espionage, system disruption, theft and inadvertent release of confidential information. Our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and confidential information and intellectual property, including residents' and suppliers' personal information, private information about employees, and financial and strategic information about us. Further, as we pursue our strategy to grow through acquisitions and developments and to pursue new initiatives to improve our operations, we are also expanding our information technologies, resulting in a larger technological presence and corresponding exposure to cybersecurity risk. If we fail to assess and identify cybersecurity risks associated with our operations, we may become increasingly vulnerable to such risks and may be liable for the consequential litigation and remediation costs. Additionally, the measures we have implemented to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents may not be effective and there can be no complete assurance of prevention or anticipation of such incidents. The theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of sensitive data, confidential information or intellectual property, or interference with our information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely could result in business disruption, negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of residents, potential liability and competitive disadvantage, any of which could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. Our third-party service providers are primarily responsible for the security of their own information technology environments and in certain instances, we rely significantly on third-party service providers to supply and store our sensitive data in a secure manner.  All of these third parties face potential risks relating to cybersecurity similar to ours which could disrupt their businesses and therefore adversely impact us. While we provide guidance and specific requirements in some cases, we do not directly control any of these parties' information technology security operations, or the amount of investment they place in guarding against cybersecurity threats.  Accordingly, we are subject to any flaws in or breaches to their information technology systems or those which they operate for us, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. 6. Table of Contents. Risks Associated with Our Indebtedness and Financing. We have significant debt, which could have adverse consequences.. As of December 31, 2017, we had outstanding debt of approximately $2.2 billion. This indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including, but not limited to, the following:. • if a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness, and if we are unable to meet our mortgage obligations, we could sustain a loss as a result of foreclosure on the mortgaged property;. • our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions is increased; and. • our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in business and industry conditions is limited.. The mortgages on our properties subject to secured debt, our unsecured credit facilities, and the indenture under which our unsecured debt was issued, contain customary restrictions, requirements, and other limitations, as well as certain financial and operating covenants including maintenance of certain financial ratios. Maintaining compliance with these provisions could limit our financial flexibility. A default in these provisions, if uncured, could require us to repay the indebtedness before the scheduled maturity date, which could adversely affect our liquidity and increase our financing costs.. Insufficient cash flows could limit our ability to make required payments for debt obligations or pay distributions to shareholders.. Substantially all of our income is derived from rental and other income from our multifamily communities. As a result, our performance depends in large part on our ability to collect rent from residents, which could be negatively affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the following:. • delay in resident lease commencements;. • decline in occupancy;. • failure of residents to make rental payments when due;. • the attractiveness of our properties to residents and potential residents;. • our ability to adequately manage and maintain our communities;. • competition from other available apartments and housing alternatives;. • changes in market rents; and. • increases in operating expenses.. Cash flow could be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest with respect to debt financing. In order for us to continue to qualify as a REIT we must meet a number of organizational and operational requirements, including a requirement to distribute annual dividends to our shareholders equal to a minimum of 90% of our adjusted taxable income. This requirement limits the cash available to meet required principal payments on our debt.. Issuances of additional debt may adversely impact our financial condition.. Our capital requirements depend on numerous factors, including the rental and occupancy rates of our multifamily properties, minimum dividend requirements to our equity holders, development, redevelopment and other capital expenditures, costs of operations, and potential acquisitions. If our capital requirements vary materially from our plans, we may require additional financing earlier than anticipated. If we issue more debt, we could become more leveraged, resulting in increased risk of default on our obligations and an increase in our debt service requirements, both of which could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to access debt and equity capital markets in the future.. We may be unable to renew, repay, or refinance our outstanding debt.. We are subject to the risk indebtedness on our properties or our unsecured indebtedness will not be renewed, repaid, or refinanced when due or the terms of any renewal or refinancing will not be as favorable as the existing terms of such indebtedness. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms, or at all, we might be forced to dispose of one or more of the properties on disadvantageous terms, which might result in losses to us. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to pay amounts due on our debt and make distributions to our shareholders.  Furthermore, if a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose on the property, appoint a receiver and exercise rights under an assignment of rents and leases, or pursue other. 7. Table of Contents. remedies, all with a consequent loss of our revenues and asset value. Foreclosures could also create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, thereby hindering our ability to meet the REIT distribution requirements of the Code.. We may be adversely affected by changes in LIBOR reporting practices or the method in which LIBOR is determined.. Our unsecured credit facilities and fair value of derivative instruments are indexed to the London Interbank Offered Rate (\"LIBOR\").  On July 27, 2017, the Financial Conduct Authority (the \"FCA\") announced its intention to phase out LIBOR rates by the end of 2021.  It is not possible to predict the further effect of the rules of the FCA, any changes in the methods by which LIBOR is determined, or any other reforms to LIBOR which may be enacted in the United Kingdom, the European Union or elsewhere.  Any such developments may cause LIBOR to perform differently than in the past, or cease to exist.  In addition, any other legal or regulatory changes made by the FCA, ICE Benchmark Administration Limited, the European Money Markets Institute (formerly Euribor-EBF), the European Commission or any other successor governance or oversight body, or future changes adopted by such body, in the method by which LIBOR is determined or the transition from LIBOR to a successor benchmark may result in, among other things, a sudden or prolonged increase or decrease in LIBOR, a delay in the publication of LIBOR, trigger changes in the rules or methodologies in LIBOR discouraging market participants from continuing to administer or to participate in LIBOR's  determination, and, in certain situations, could result in LIBOR no longer being determined and published.  If a published U.S. dollar LIBOR rate is unavailable after 2021, the interest rates on our debt which is indexed to LIBOR will be determined using various alternative methods, any of which may result in interest obligations which are more than or do not otherwise correlate over time with the payments that would have been made on such debt if U.S. dollar LIBOR was available in its current form.  Further, the same costs and risks which may lead to the discontinuation or unavailability of U.S. dollar LIBOR may make one or more of the alternative methods impossible or impracticable to determine.  Any of these proposals or consequences could have a material adverse effect on our financing costs.. Rising interest rates could both increase our borrowing costs, thereby adversely affecting our cash flows and the amounts available for distribution to our shareholders, and decrease our share price, if investors seek higher yields through other investments.. We have mortgage debt with varying interest rates dependent upon various market indexes. In addition, we have an unsecured credit facility bearing interest at variable rates on all amounts drawn. We may incur additional variable rate debt in the future. Increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense, unless we make arrangements which hedge the risk of rising interest rates, and would increase the costs of refinancing existing debt and of issuing new debt. Accordingly, higher interest rates would adversely affect cash flow, net income, and cash available for payment of our debt obligations and distributions to shareholders.. An environment of rising interest rates could also lead holders of our securities to seek higher yields through other investments, which could adversely affect the market price of our shares. One of the factors which may influence the price of our stock in public markets is the annual distribution rate we pay as compared with the yields on alternative investments.. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rates may adversely affect results of operations.. From time-to-time, we may seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements for debt instruments and future debt issuances. These agreements involve risks, such as the risk the counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, and these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt.. Failure to maintain our current credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of funds, related margins, liquidity, and access to capital markets.. Moody's, Fitch, and Standard & Poor's, the major debt rating agencies, routinely evaluate our debt and have given us ratings of A3 with stable outlook, A- with stable outlook, and BBB+ with stable outlook, respectively, on our senior unsecured debt. These ratings are based on a number of factors, which include their assessment of our financial strength, liquidity, capital structure, asset quality, and sustainability of cash flow and earnings. Due to changes in market conditions, we may not be able to maintain our current credit ratings, which could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, and access to capital markets.. Risks Associated with Our Shares. Share ownership limits and our ability to issue additional equity securities may prevent takeovers beneficial to shareholders.. For us to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we must have 100 or more shareholders during the year and not more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals. As defined for federal. 8. Table of Contents. income tax purposes, the term \"individuals\" includes a number of specified entities. To minimize the possibility of us failing to qualify as a REIT under this test, our declaration of trust includes restrictions on transfers of our shares and ownership limits. The ownership limits, as well as our ability to issue other classes of equity securities, may delay, defer, or prevent a change in control. These provisions may also deter tender offers for our common shares which may be attractive to you or limit your opportunity to receive a premium for your shares which might otherwise exist if a third party were attempting to effect a change in control transaction.. Our share price will fluctuate.. The market price and trading volume of our common shares are subject to fluctuation due to general market conditions, the risks discussed in this report and other matters, including, but not limited to, the following:. • operating results which vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors;. • investor interest in our property portfolio;. • the reputation and performance of REITs;. • the attractiveness of REITs as compared to other investment vehicles;. • the results of our financial condition and operations;. • the perception of our growth and earnings potential;. • minimum dividend requirements;. • increases in market interest rates, which may lead purchasers of our common shares to demand a higher yield; and. • changes in financial markets and national and regional economic and general market conditions.. The form, timing and amount of dividend distributions in future periods may vary and be impacted by economic and other considerations.. The form, timing and amount of dividend distributions will be declared at the discretion of our Board of Trust Managers and will depend on actual cash from operations, our financial condition, capital requirements, the annual distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Code and other factors as the Board of Trust Managers may consider relevant. The Board of Trust Managers may modify the form, timing and amount of dividends from time to time."
