[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Report, the following risks and uncertainties could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations and financial condition.. 5. Operational Risk Factors. Our strategy may not be successful and our business or financial results may be adversely impacted. On August 30, 2018, we announced our vision to be a leading snacks and simple meals company, with a portfolio of best-in-class products and brands in our core North American market. This strategy entails a refocused portfolio that includes brands concentrated in slower-growing center-store categories in traditional retail grocery channels. Factors that may impact our success include our ability to:. • capture increased market share in certain snacking and simple meals categories, while maintaining our leading market share in other categories;. •identify and capitalize on customer or consumer trends;. •design and implement effective retail execution plans;. •design and implement effective advertising and marketing programs, including digital programs; and. •secure or maintain sufficient shelf space at retailers.. If we are not successful in addressing these factors, or if there are changes in the underlying growth rates of the categories in which we compete, our strategy may not be successful and our business or financial results may be adversely impacted.. Our results may be adversely affected by our inability to complete or realize the projected benefits of divestitures. On August 30, 2018, we announced plans to pursue the divestiture of businesses within two operating segments: our international biscuits and snacks operating segment, which includes Arnott's, Kelsen and our operations in Indonesia, Malaysia, Hong Kong and Japan; and the Campbell Fresh operating segment, which includes Bolthouse Farms, Garden Fresh Gourmet and the U.S. refrigerated soup business. We expect to use the proceeds from these divestitures to reduce debt. Our ability to successfully divest these businesses and any other businesses we decide to divest may depend in part on our ability to identify suitable buyers, negotiate favorable financial and other contractual terms and obtain all necessary regulatory approvals on the terms expected. Potential risks of divestitures may also include diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, loss of key employees, suppliers and/or customers of divested businesses, the inability to separate divested businesses or business units effectively and efficiently from our existing business operations and the inability to reduce or eliminate associated overhead costs. If we are unable to complete or realize the projected benefits of planned and/or future divestitures, we may not be able to reduce our debt as planned and our business or financial results may be adversely impacted.. We incurred substantial indebtedness to finance the acquisition of Snyder's-Lance. In connection with the closing of the acquisition of Snyder's-Lance and the payoff of Snyder's-Lance indebtedness, we incurred approximately $6.2 billion of indebtedness through a combination of senior notes and a senior unsecured term loan facility. This substantial level of indebtedness increased our debt service obligations. It may also have other important consequences to our business, including but not limited to:. • increasing our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates;. • subjecting us to financial and other covenants, the non-compliance with which could result in an event of default;. • increasing our vulnerability to, and reducing our flexibility to respond to, general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, including undertaking significant capital projects;. • placing us at a competitive disadvantage as compared to our competitors, to the extent that they are not as highly leveraged; and. • restricting us from pursuing certain business opportunities, including other acquisitions.. In addition, we regularly access the commercial paper markets for working capital needs and other general corporate purposes. If our credit ratings are further downgraded, we may have difficulty selling additional debt securities or borrowing money in the amounts and on the terms that might be available if our credit ratings were maintained. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources\" for information regarding our credit ratings.. Disruptions in the commercial paper market or other effects of volatile economic conditions on the credit markets may also reduce the amount of commercial paper that we can issue and raise our borrowing costs for both short- and long-term debt offerings. There can be no assurance that we will have access to the capital markets on terms we find acceptable. Limitations on our ability to access the capital markets, a reduction in our liquidity or an increase in our borrowing costs may adversely affect our business and financial results.. 6. We may not realize the anticipated benefits from our cost reduction initiatives. We are pursuing multi-year cost savings initiatives with targeted annualized cost savings of $945 million by the end of 2022, which includes $295 million in synergies and run-rate cost savings from our acquisition of Snyder's-Lance. These initiatives will require a substantial amount of management and operational resources. Our management team must successfully execute the administrative and operational changes necessary to achieve the anticipated benefits of these initiatives and, in some respects, our plans to achieve these cost savings continue to be in development. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation - Restructuring Charges and Cost Savings Initiatives\" for additional information on these initiatives. These and related demands on our resources may divert the organization's attention from other business issues, have adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers and impact employee morale. Our success is partly dependent upon properly executing, and realizing cost savings or other benefits from, these often complex initiatives. Any failure to implement our initiatives could adversely affect our business or financial results.. The anticipated benefits of acquiring Snyder's-Lance may not be fully realized or realized within the time frame that we expect. We expect that the acquisition of Snyder's-Lance will result in various benefits including, among other things, cost savings, cost synergies, a strengthened market position and revenue opportunities. Achieving these anticipated benefits is subject to uncertainties, including whether we integrate in an efficient and effective manner, and general competitive factors in the marketplace. Integrating Snyder's-Lance will be a complex and time-consuming process that requires investment. We may experience unanticipated difficulties, delays or expenses related to the integration, including but not limited to:. • diversion of management's attention from ongoing business concerns;. • managing a larger combined business;. • finalizing the integration of Snyder's-Lance's past acquisitions to the extent not yet completed;. • perceived adverse changes in product offerings to consumers, whether or not these changes actually occur;. • assumption of unknown risks and liabilities;. • the retention of key suppliers and customers of Snyder's-Lance;. • attracting new business and operational relationships; and. • retaining and integrating key employees and maintaining employee morale.. We plan to combine certain operations, functions, systems and processes, which we may be unsuccessful or delayed in implementing. In addition, costs for synergies and integration may be more than anticipated, and there are many factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or timing of these expenses. Although we expect that the elimination of duplicative costs and realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses will offset incremental costs over time, any net benefit may not be achieved in the near term or at all. The failure to effectively address any of these risks, or any other risks related to the integration of the Snyder's-Lance acquisition, may adversely affect our business and financial results.. We may not be able to increase prices to fully offset increases in the cost of transportation and logistics and prices of raw and packaging materials. The cost of distribution has increased due to a significant rise in transportation and logistics costs, driven by excess demand, reduced availability and higher fuel costs. In addition, certain of the materials required for the manufacture of our products, including steel, have been or may be impacted by new or recently proposed tariffs.. As a manufacturer of food and beverage products, the raw and packaging materials used in our business include tomato paste, grains, beef, poultry, dairy, vegetables, steel, glass, paper and resin. Many of these materials are subject to price fluctuations from a number of factors, including but not limited to changes in crop size, cattle cycles, crop disease, crop pests, product scarcity, demand for raw materials, commodity market speculation, energy costs, currency fluctuations, government-sponsored agricultural programs, import and export requirements (including tariffs), drought, water scarcity, temperature extremes, scarcity of suitable agricultural land, scarcity of organic ingredients and other factors that may be beyond our control. We may not be able to offset any price increases through productivity or price increases or through our commodity hedging activity.. We try to pass along to customers some or all cost increases through increases in the selling prices of, or decreases in the packaging sizes of, some of our products. Higher product prices or smaller packaging sizes may result in reductions in sales volume. To the extent that price increases or packaging size decreases are not sufficient to offset these increased costs, and/or if they result in significant decreases in sales volume, our business results and financial condition may be adversely affected.. 7. We operate in a highly competitive industry. We operate in the highly competitive food and beverage industry and experience competition in all of our categories. The principal areas of competition are brand recognition, taste, nutritional value, price, promotion, innovation, shelf space and customer service. A number of our primary competitors are larger than us and have substantial financial, marketing and other resources. In addition, reduced barriers to entry and easier access to funding are creating new competition. A strong competitive response from one or more of these competitors to our marketplace efforts, or a continued shift towards private label offerings, could result in us reducing prices, increasing marketing or other expenditures, and/or losing market share.. We may be adversely impacted by a changing customer landscape and the increased significance of some of our customers. Our businesses are largely concentrated in the traditional retail grocery trade, which has experienced slower growth than other retail channels, such as dollar stores, drug stores, club stores and e-commerce retailers. This trend away from traditional retail grocery is expected to continue in the future. If we are not successful in expanding sales in growing retail channels, our business or financial results may be adversely impacted. In addition, retailers with increased buying power and negotiating strength are seeking more favorable terms, including increased promotional programs funded by their suppliers. In 2018, U.S. soup sales declined primarily due to a key customer's different promotional approach for soup. These customers may also use more of their shelf space for their private label products. If we are unable to use our scale, marketing expertise, product innovation and category leadership positions to respond to these customer dynamics, our business or financial results could be adversely impacted.. In 2018, our five largest customers accounted for approximately 38% of our consolidated net sales, with the largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, accounting for approximately 18% of our consolidated net sales. There can be no assurance that our largest customers will continue to purchase our products in the same mix or quantities or on the same terms as in the past. Disruption of sales to any of these customers, or to any of our other large customers, for an extended period of time could adversely affect our business or financial results.. Our results may be adversely impacted if consumers do not maintain their favorable perception of our brands. We have a number of iconic brands with significant value. Maintaining and continually enhancing the value of these brands is critical to the success of our business. Brand value is primarily based on consumer perceptions. Success in promoting and enhancing brand value depends in large part on our ability to provide high-quality products. Brand value could diminish significantly due to a number of factors, including consumer perception that we have acted in an irresponsible manner, adverse publicity about our products, packaging or ingredients (whether or not valid), our failure to maintain the quality of our products, the failure of our products to deliver consistently positive consumer experiences, or the products becoming unavailable to consumers. The growing use of social and digital media by consumers increases the speed and extent that information and opinions can be shared. Negative posts or comments about us, our brands, products or packaging on social or digital media could seriously damage our brands and reputation. If we do not maintain the favorable perception of our brands, our results could be adversely impacted.. Disruption to our supply chain could adversely affect our business. Our ability to manufacture and/or sell our products may be impaired by damage or disruption to our manufacturing, warehousing or distribution capabilities, or to the capabilities of our suppliers, contract manufacturers, logistics service providers or independent distributors. This damage or disruption could result from execution issues, as well as factors that are hard to predict or beyond our control, such as product or raw material scarcity, adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, fire, terrorism, pandemics, strikes or other events. Production of the agricultural commodities used in our business may also be adversely affected by drought, water scarcity, temperature extremes, scarcity of suitable agricultural land, scarcity of organic ingredients, crop size, cattle cycles, crop disease and crop pests. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, may adversely affect our business or financial results, particularly in circumstances when a product is sourced from a single supplier or location. Disputes with significant suppliers, contract manufacturers, logistics service providers or independent distributors, including disputes regarding pricing or performance, may also adversely affect our ability to manufacture and/or sell our products, as well as our business or financial results.. If our food products become adulterated or are mislabeled, we might need to recall those items, and we may experience product liability claims and damage to our reputation. We have in the past and we may, in the future, need to recall some of our products if they become adulterated or if they are mislabeled, and we may also be liable if the consumption of any of our products causes injury to consumers. A widespread product recall could result in significant losses due to the costs of a recall, the destruction of product inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. We could also suffer losses from a significant adverse product liability judgment. A significant product recall or product liability claim could also result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in the safety and/or quality of our products, ingredients or packaging. In addition, if another company recalls or experiences negative publicity related to a product in a category in which we compete, consumers might reduce their overall consumption of products in that category.. 8. Our non-U.S. operations pose additional risks to our business. In 2018, approximately 19% of our consolidated net sales were generated outside of the U.S. Our business or financial condition may be adversely affected due to the risks of doing business in these markets, including but not limited to the following:. •unfavorable changes in tariffs, quotas, trade barriers or other export and import restrictions;. • the adverse impact of foreign tax treaties and policies;. • the difficulty and/or costs of complying with a wide variety of laws, treaties and regulations, including anti-corruption laws and regulations such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;. • the difficulty and/or costs of designing and implementing an effective control environment across diverse regions and employee bases;. • political or economic instability, including the possibility of civil unrest, public corruption, armed hostilities or terrorist acts;. • the possible nationalization of operations;. • the difficulty of enforcing remedies and protecting intellectual property in various jurisdictions; and. • restrictions on the transfer of funds to and from countries outside of the U.S., including potential adverse tax consequences.. In addition, we hold assets and incur liabilities, generate revenue, and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the U.S. dollar, primarily the Australian dollar and the Canadian dollar. Our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, and we must translate our assets, liabilities, sales and expenses into U.S. dollars for external reporting purposes. As a result, changes in the value of the U.S. dollar due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates or currency exchange controls may materially and adversely affect the value of these items in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their local currency.. On August 30, 2018, we announced plans to pursue the divestiture of our international biscuits and snacks operating segment, which includes Arnott's, Kelsen and our operations in Indonesia, Malaysia, Hong Kong and Japan. If and until this operating segment is divested, we expect to continue to conduct business as usual in markets outside of the U.S.. An impairment of the carrying value of goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets could adversely affect our financial results and net worth. As of July 29, 2018, we had goodwill of $4.580 billion and other indefinite-lived intangible assets of $3.123 billion. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are initially recorded at fair value and not amortized, but are tested for impairment at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. We test goodwill at the reporting unit level by comparing the carrying value of the net assets of the reporting unit, including goodwill, to the unit's fair value. Similarly, we test indefinite-lived intangible assets by comparing the fair value of the assets to their carrying values. Fair value for both goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets is determined based on a discounted cash flow analysis. If the carrying values of the reporting unit or indefinite-lived intangible assets exceed their fair value, the goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets are considered impaired and reduced to fair value. Factors that could result in an impairment include a change in revenue growth rates, operating margins, weighted average cost of capital, future economic and market conditions or assumed royalty rates. We have, in the most recently completed and prior years, experienced impairment charges. See \"Significant Accounting Estimates\" and Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on past impairments. We may be required in the future to record additional impairment of the carrying value of goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets, which could adversely affect our financial results and net worth.. Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products and brands. We consider our intellectual property rights, particularly our trademarks, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. We protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of trademark, patent, copyright and trade secret protection, contractual agreements and policing of third-party misuses of our intellectual property. Our failure to obtain or adequately protect our intellectual property or any change in law that lessens or removes the current legal protections of our intellectual property may diminish our competitiveness and adversely affect our business and financial results.. Competing intellectual property claims that impact our brands or products may arise unexpectedly. Any litigation or disputes regarding intellectual property may be costly and time-consuming and may divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development, launch and sale of certain products. Any of these occurrences may harm our business and financial results.. 9. We may be adversely impacted by increased liabilities and costs related to our defined benefit pension plans. We sponsor a number of defined benefit pension plans for certain employees in the U.S. and various non-U.S. locations. The major defined benefit pension plans are funded with trust assets invested in a globally diversified portfolio of securities and other investments. Changes in regulatory requirements or the market value of plan assets, investment returns, interest rates and mortality rates may affect the funded status of our defined benefit pension plans and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost, future funding requirements of the plans and the funded status as recorded on the balance sheet. A significant increase in our obligations or future funding requirements could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. We may be adversely impacted by a failure or security breach of our information technology systems. Our information technology systems are critically important to our operations. We rely on our information technology systems (some of which are outsourced to third parties) to manage our data, communications and business processes, including our marketing, sales, manufacturing, procurement, logistics, customer service, accounting and administrative functions. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build, sustain and protect appropriate information technology systems, our business or financial results could be adversely impacted. Furthermore, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to attack or other security breaches (including the access to or acquisition of customer, consumer or other confidential information), service disruptions or other system failures. If we are unable to prevent or adequately respond to and resolve these breaches, disruptions or failures, our operations may be impacted, and we may suffer other adverse consequences such as reputational damage, litigation, remediation costs and/or penalties under various data privacy laws and regulations.. To address the risks to our information technology systems and the associated costs, we maintain an information security program that includes updating technology and security policies, cyber insurance, employee training, and monitoring and routine testing of our information technology systems. Although we have not experienced a material incident to date, there can be no assurance that these measures will prevent or limit the impact of a future incident.. We may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled people we need to support our business. We depend on the skills and continued service of key personnel, including our experienced management team. In addition, our ability to achieve our strategic and operating goals depends on our ability to identify, hire, train and retain qualified individuals. We compete with other companies both within and outside of our industry for talented personnel, and we may lose key personnel or fail to attract, train and retain other talented personnel. Any such loss or failure may adversely affect our business or financial results. In addition, activities related to identifying, recruiting, hiring and integrating qualified individuals may require significant time and expense. We may not be able to locate suitable replacements for any key employees who leave, or offer employment to potential replacements on reasonable terms, each of which may adversely affect our business and financial results.. On May 18, 2018, we announced the appointment of an Interim President and Chief Executive Officer.  The search for and transition to a permanent President and Chief Executive Officer may result in disruptions to our business and uncertainty among investors, employees and others concerning our future direction and performance. Any such disruptions and uncertainty, as well as the failure to successfully identify, attract or retain a permanent President and Chief Executive Officer, could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results.. Our results may be adversely affected by our inability to complete or realize the projected benefits of acquisitions and other strategic transactions. We may undertake additional acquisitions or other strategic transactions. Our ability to meet our objectives with respect to acquisitions and other strategic transactions may depend in part on our ability to identify suitable counterparties, negotiate favorable financial and other contractual terms, obtain all necessary regulatory approvals on the terms expected and complete those transactions. Potential risks also include:. • the inability to integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations in a timely and cost-efficient manner;. • diversion of management's attention from other business concerns;. • potential loss of key employees, suppliers and/or customers of acquired businesses;. • assumption of unknown risks and liabilities;. • the inability to achieve anticipated benefits, including revenues or other operating results;. • operating costs of acquired businesses may be greater than expected;. • the inability to promptly implement an effective control environment; and. • the risks inherent in entering markets or lines of business with which we have limited or no prior experience.. Acquisitions outside the U.S. may present added unique challenges and increase our exposure to risks associated with foreign operations, including foreign currency risks and risks associated with local regulatory regimes.. 10. Market Conditions and Other General Risk Factors. Actions of activist shareholders could cause us to incur substantial costs, divert management's attention and resources, and have an adverse effect on our business. We have become the target of activist shareholder activities. If these activities continue, our business could be adversely affected because responding to proxy contests and reacting to other actions by activist shareholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our operations and divert the attention of management and our employees. In addition, perceived uncertainties as to our future direction, strategy or leadership created as a consequence of activist shareholder initiatives may result in the loss of potential business opportunities, harm our ability to attract new investors, customers, employees, suppliers and other strategic partners, and cause our share price to experience periods of volatility or stagnation.. We face risks related to recession, financial and credit market disruptions and other economic conditions. Customer and consumer demand for our products may be impacted by weak economic conditions, recession, equity market volatility or other negative economic factors in the U.S. or other nations. Similarly, disruptions in financial and/or credit markets may impact our ability to manage normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers and creditors. In addition, changes in tax or interest rates in the U.S. or other nations, whether due to recession, financial and credit market disruptions or other reasons, may adversely impact us.. Adverse changes in the global climate or extreme weather conditions could adversely affect our business or operations. Our business or financial results could be adversely affected by changing global temperatures or weather patterns or by extreme or unusual weather conditions. Adverse changes in the global climate or extreme or unusual weather conditions could:. • unfavorably impact the cost or availability of raw or packaging materials, especially if such events have an adverse impact on agricultural productivity or on the supply of water;. • disrupt our ability, or the ability of our suppliers or contract manufacturers, to manufacture or distribute our products;. • disrupt the retail operations of our customers; or. • unfavorably impact the demand for, or the consumer's ability to purchase, our products.. In addition, there is growing concern that the release of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases into the atmosphere may be impacting global temperatures and weather patterns and contributing to extreme or unusual weather conditions. This growing concern may result in more regional, federal, and/or global legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases. Adoption of such additional regulation may result in increased compliance costs, capital expenditures and other financial obligations that could adversely affect our business and financial results.. Legal and Regulatory Risk Factors. We may be adversely impacted by legal and regulatory proceedings or claims. We are party to a variety of legal and regulatory proceedings and claims arising out of the normal course of business. Since these actions are inherently uncertain, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves against such proceedings or claims, or that our assessment of the materiality or immateriality of these matters, including any reserves taken in connection with such matters, will be consistent with the ultimate outcome of such proceedings or claims. The marketing of food products has come under increased regulatory scrutiny in recent years, and the food industry has been subject to an increasing number of proceedings and claims relating to alleged false or deceptive marketing under federal, state and foreign laws or regulations. In addition, the independent contractor distribution model, which is used by Pepperidge Farm and Snyder's-Lance, has come under increased regulatory scrutiny. Our independent contractor distribution model has also been the subject of various lawsuits in recent years. In the event we are unable to successfully defend ourselves against these proceedings or claims, or if our assessment of the materiality of these proceedings or claims proves inaccurate, our business or financial results may be adversely affected. In addition, our reputation could be damaged by allegations made in proceedings or claims (even if untrue).. Increased regulation or changes in law could adversely affect our business or financial results. The manufacture and marketing of food products is extensively regulated. Various laws and regulations govern the processing, packaging, storage, distribution, marketing, advertising, labeling, quality and safety of our food products, as well as the health and safety of our employees and the protection of the environment. In the U.S., we are subject to regulation by various federal government agencies, including but not limited to the Food and Drug Administration, the Department of Agriculture, the Federal Trade Commission, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the Environmental Protection Agency, as well as various state and local agencies. We are also regulated by similar agencies outside the U.S.. Governmental and administrative bodies within the U.S. are considering a variety of tax, trade and other regulatory reforms. Trade reforms include tariffs on certain materials used in the manufacture of our products and tariffs on certain finished products.. 11. Changes in legal or regulatory requirements (such as new food safety requirements and revised regulatory requirements for the labeling of nutrition facts, serving sizes and genetically modified ingredients), or evolving interpretations of existing legal or regulatory requirements, may result in increased compliance cost, capital expenditures and other financial obligations that could adversely affect our business and financial results."
