[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to risks and uncertainties in the ordinary course of business that are common to all businesses, important factors that are specific to our industry and us could materially affect our future performance and results. Management believes the factors described below are the most significant risks that could have a material impact on our business.. Our business is sensitive to economic conditions that may affect consumer confidence, consumer discretionary spending, or our access to credit in a manner that adversely affects our operations.. Economic trends can affect consumer confidence and consumers’ discretionary spending:. •Negative economic conditions and the persistence of elevated levels of unemployment can affect consumers’ disposable incomes and, therefore, affect the demand for entertainment and leisure activities.. •Declines in the residential real estate market, increases in individual tax rates and other factors that we cannot accurately predict may reduce the disposable income of our customers.. •Decreases in consumer discretionary spending could affect us even if these decreases occur in other markets. For example, reduced wagering levels and profitability at racetracks to which we provide our live-racing signal or from which we receive simulcast signals could adversely affect, respectively, simulcast revenues or the content we provide to our customers.. 11. Lower consumer confidence or reductions in consumer discretionary spending could result in fewer patrons spending money at our racetrack. Our access to and cost of credit may be affected to the extent global and U.S. credit markets are affected by downward economic trends. Our ability to respond to periods of economic contraction may be limited, as some of our costs remain fixed or even increase when revenue declines.. A lack of confidence in the integrity of our core businesses could affect our ability to retain our customers and engage with new customers.. The integrity of horseracing, casino gaming and pari-mutuel wagering industries must be perceived as fair to patrons and the public at large. To prevent cheating or erroneous payouts, oversight processes must be in place to ensure that these activities cannot be manipulated. A loss of confidence in the fairness of our industries could have a material adverse impact on our business.. We face significant competition, both directly from other gaming operations and indirectly from other forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. We face intense competition in our market, particularly competition from NMHI, which offers unbanked card games similar to those offered by the Company. We also compete with Native American owned casinos. These facilities have the advantage of being exempt from some state and federal taxes and state regulation of indoor smoking, and have the ability to offer a wider variety of gaming products. Internet-based interactive gaming and wagering, both legal and illegal, is growing rapidly and we anticipate competition in this area will become more intense as new Internet-based ventures enter our industry and as state and federal regulations on Internet-based activities are clarified. Additionally, we compete with other forms of gambling, spectator sports, other forms of entertainment, and other racetracks throughout the country as we discussed under “Competition” above.. We expect competition for our existing and future operations to increase from NMHI, existing tribal casinos, and racetracks that are able to subsidize their purses with alternative gaming revenues. Competition for simulcasting customers will be intense given the recent legalization of online internet wagering on horse racing in Minnesota, through ADW providers. In addition, several of our tribal gaming competitors in Minnesota have substantially larger marketing and financial resources than we do. We are unable to predict with any certainty the effects of existing and future competition on our operating results.. We are subject to extensive regulation from gaming authorities that could adversely affect us.. We are subject to significant regulation by the MRC under the Racing Act and the rules adopted by the MRC. The MRC has the authority to increase the Class A and Class B license fees. In addition, the Minnesota Racing Act requires that we reimburse the MRC for its actual costs of regulating the Card Casino, including personnel costs. Increases in these licensing and regulatory costs could adversely affect our results of operations.. Amendments to the Minnesota Racing Act or decisions by the MRC in regard to any one or more of the following matters could also adversely affect the Company’s operations: the granting of operating licenses to Canterbury Park and other racetracks after an application process and public hearings; the licensing of all track employees, jockeys, trainers, veterinarians, and other participants; regulating the transfer of ownership interests in licenses; allocating live race days and simulcast-only race days; approving race programs; regulating the conduct of races; setting specifications for the racing ovals, animal facilities, employee quarters, and public areas of racetracks; changes to the types of wagers on horse races; and approval of significant contractual agreements.. We are subject to changes in the laws that govern our business, including the possibility of an increase in gaming taxes, which would increase our costs, and changes in other laws may adversely affect our ability to compete.. Our operations and oversight by the MRC are ultimately subject to the laws of Minnesota including, but not limited to, the Minnesota Racing Act, and there exists the risk that these laws may be amended in ways adverse to our operations. In particular, we are required to pay taxes and fees in addition to normal federal, state, and local income taxes, and such taxes and fees are subject to increase at any time. From time to time, state and local legislators and officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of laws affecting our industry, such as the allocation of each wagering pool to winning bettors, the Racetrack, purses, and the MBF. In addition, poor economic conditions could intensify the efforts of state and local governments to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes. It is not possible to predict with certainty the likelihood of changes in tax laws or in the administration of these laws. These changes, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. 12. We are also subject to federal and Minnesota laws that affect businesses generally. Some of these laws, such as laws pertaining to immigration, have severe penalties for law violations. In addition, it is possible, as a result of the legislative process, that legislation directly or indirectly adverse to the Company may be enacted into law.. We depend on key personnel.. Our continued success and our ability to maintain our competitive position is largely dependent upon, among other things, the skills and efforts of our senior executives and management team including Randall D. Sampson, our Chief Executive Officer. We have no employment agreements with our senior executives and key personnel, and we cannot guarantee that these individuals will remain with us. Their retention is affected by the competitiveness of our terms of employment and our ability to compete effectively against other gaming companies. Our inability to retain key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We process, store and use personal information and other data, which subjects us to governmental regulation and other legal obligations related to privacy, and our actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could harm our business.. We receive, store and process personal information and other customer data. There are numerous federal, state and local laws regarding privacy and the storing, sharing, use, processing, disclosure and protection of personal information and other data. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with our privacy policies, our privacy-related obligations to customers or other third parties, or our privacy-related legal obligations, or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release or transfer of personally identifiable information or other player data, may result in governmental enforcement actions, litigation or public statements against us by consumer advocacy groups or others and could cause our customers to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our business.. While we maintain insurance coverage specific to cyber-insurance matters, any failure on our part to maintain adequate safeguards may subject us to significant liabilities.. Additionally, if third parties we work with, such as vendors, violate applicable laws or our policies, these violations may also put our customers’ information at risk and could in turn have an adverse effect on our business. The Company is also subject to payment card association rules and obligations under its contracts with payment card processors. Under these rules and obligations, if information is compromised, the Company could be liable to payment card issuers for the associated expense and penalties. In addition, if the Company fails to follow payment card industry security standards, even if no customer information is compromised, the Company could incur significant fines or experience a significant increase in payment card transaction costs.. Energy and fuel price increases may adversely affect our costs of operations and our revenues.. Our facility uses significant amounts of electricity, natural gas, and other forms of energy. Increases in the cost of electricity or natural gas negatively affect our results of operations. In addition, energy and fuel price increases could negatively affect our operations by reducing disposable income of potential customers and decreasing visits to our facility.. Our CMA with the SMSC may be terminated by the SMSC prior to December 31, 2022 under certain circumstances.. The CMA grants to the SMSC the right to terminate the CMA without cause if the SMSC determines, in its sole discretion that a change of circumstance adverse to its interests with respect to gaming in the State of Minnesota has occurred. If the SMSC exercises this right, the Company would be entitled to substantial wind-down payments approximately equal to 2.5 times the average annual payment due under the CMA in the three years following the year it gives notice of termination. While any wind-down payments would cushion the impact of the SMSC’s exercise of this right to terminate the CMA, a termination of the CMA prior to the expiration of its term in 2022 could have a material adverse effect on the Company.. Purse Enhancement Payments and Marketing Payments under our CMA with SMSC may not continue after 2022.. The term of the CMA with SMSC ends December 31, 2022, and there is no certainty the CMA can be extended or renegotiated on terms that are mutually acceptable to SMSC, the horsepersons’ associations and the Company.  In particular, there can be no assurance that, after December 31, 2022, SMSC’s purse enhancement payments to the horsepersons’ associations and marketing payments to the Company will continue at the levels currently being paid, if at all. If, by December 31, 2022, the CMA is not extended or renegotiated on economic terms substantially similar to those currently in effect or due to the parties being unable to mutually agree on other terms, the Company could be materially adversely affected.. 13. Nationally the popularity of horse racing has declined.. There has been a general decline in the number of people wagering on live horse races at North American racetracks, either in person or via simulcasting, due to a number of factors, including increased competition from other wagering and entertainment alternatives as discussed above.  According to industry sources, pari-mutuel handle declined 27% from 2007 to 2011 and has been relatively stable since 2011, experiencing less than a 1% decline between 2011 and 2017. Declining interest in horse racing has had a negative impact on revenues and profitability in our racing business.  Our business plan anticipates increased attendance and pari-mutuel wagering during our 2018 live meet and in future live meets because of purse enhancement payments and marketing payments we receive under the CMA.  However, we recognize that a general decline in interest in horse racing and pari-mutuel wagering could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations in future years.. We may not be able to attract a sufficient number of horses and trainers to achieve above average field sizes.. We believe that patrons prefer to wager on races with a number of horses in the race (the “field”) at or above the national average. A failure to offer races with adequate fields results in less wagering on our horse races. Our ability to attract adequate fields depends on several factors. First, it depends on our ability to offer and fund competitive purses. Second, it depends on the overall horse population available for racing. Various factors have led to declines in the horse population in certain areas of the country, including competition from racetracks in other areas, increased costs and changing economic returns for owners and breeders, and the spread of various debilitating and contagious equine diseases. If our racetrack is faced with a sustained outbreak of a contagious equine disease, it could have a material impact on our profitability. Finally, if we are unable to attract horse owners to stable and race their horses at our racetrack by offering a competitive environment, including improved facilities, a well-maintained racetrack, better conditions for backstretch personnel involved in the care and training of horses stabled at our racetrack and a competitive purse structure, our profitability could also decrease. We also face increased competition for horses and trainers from racetracks that are licensed to operate slot machines and other electronic gaming machines that provide these racetracks an advantage in generating new additional revenues for race purses and capital improvements. While our ability to offer adequate fields to patrons during our live meets has been substantially strengthened by the purse enhancement payments that will be made under the CMA through 2022, our inability to attract adequate fields, for whatever reason, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Inclement weather and other conditions may affect our ability to conduct live racing.. Since horse racing is conducted outdoors, unfavorable weather conditions, including extremely high and low temperatures, high winds, storms, tornadoes and hurricanes, could cause events to be canceled or attendance to be lower, resulting in reduced wagering. Our operations, as well as the racetracks from which we receive simulcast signals, are subject to reduced patronage, disruptions or complete cessation of operations due to weather conditions, natural disasters and other casualties. If a business interruption were to occur due to inclement weather and continue for a significant length of time at our racetrack, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company maintains insurance for incremental weather conditions that would help mitigate the financial impact on our business.. Horse racing is an inherently dangerous sport and our racetrack is subject to personal injury litigation.. Although we carry jockey accident insurance at our racetrack to cover personal jockey injuries that may occur during races or daily workouts, there are certain exclusions to our insurance coverage, and we are still subject to litigation from injured participants. We renew our insurance policies on an annual basis. The cost of coverage may become so high that we may need to further reduce our policy limits or agree to certain exclusions from our coverage. Our results may be affected by the outcome of litigation, as this litigation could be costly and time consuming and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations.. 14. Our business depends on using totalizator services.. Our customers use information provided by a third party vendor that accumulates wagers, records sales, calculates payoffs and displays wagering data in a secure manner to patrons who wager on our horse races. The failure to keep technology current could limit our ability to serve patrons effectively or develop new forms of wagering or affect the security of the wagering process, thus affecting patron confidence in our product. A perceived lack of integrity in the wagering systems could result in a decline in bettor confidence and could lead to a decline in the amount wagered on horse racing. In addition, a totalizator system failure could cause a considerable loss of revenue if betting machines are unavailable for a significant period of time or during an event with high betting volume.. An increase in the minimum wage mandated under Federal or Minnesota law could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results.. The Company employs a large number of individuals at an hourly wage equal to or slightly above the current state mandated wage of $9.50 per hour. See “Recent Legislation” above for additional information regarding recently enacted minimum wage legislation. Most of these employees are either high school or college students employed on a seasonal basis or tipped employees, many of whom receive, on average, tip income that is significantly higher than the current minimum wage. From time to time legislation is introduced in the U.S. Congress or the Minnesota legislature that would substantially increase the minimum wage. Passage of legislation that would substantially increase the minimum wage could have a material adverse impact on the Company.. Uncertainty regarding the success of a possible real estate development project.. The Company is currently pursuing the commercial development of its Underutilized Land. See discussion above titled “Development Operations.” The development of residential and commercial real estate involves many risks, including but not limited to the selection of development partners, building design and construction, financing, securing and retaining tenants, and the volatility of real estate market conditions. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Company’s real estate development activities will be successful.. The payment and amount of future dividends is subject to Board of Director discretion and to various risks and uncertainties.. The payment and amount of future quarterly dividends is within the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on factors the Board deems relevant at each time it considers declaring a dividend. These factors include, but are not limited to: available cash; management’s expectations regarding future performance and free cash flow; alternative uses of cash to fund capital expenditures and real estate development; and the effect of various risks and uncertainties described in the “Risk Factors” section.. Our information technology and other systems are subject to cyber security risk including misappropriation of customer information or other breaches of information security.. We rely on information technology and other systems to maintain and transmit customers' personal and financial information, credit card information, mailing lists and other information. We have taken steps designed to safeguard our customers' personal and financial information and have implemented systems designed to meet all requirements of the Payment Card Industry standards for data protection. However, our information and processes are subject to the ever-changing threat of compromised security, in the form of a risk of potential breach, system failure, computer virus or unauthorized or fraudulent access or use by unauthorized individuals. The steps we take to deter and mitigate these risks may not be successful, and any resulting compromise or loss of data or systems could adversely impact operations or regulatory compliance and could result in remedial expenses, fines, litigation and loss of reputation, potentially impacting our financial results. Although we have invested in and deployed security systems and developed processes that are designed to protect all sensitive data, prevent data loss and reduce the impact of any security breach, such measures cannot provide absolute security."
