[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS.. Our business involves various risks and uncertainties. When evaluating our business the following information should be carefully considered in conjunction with the other information contained in our periodic filings with the SEC. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us currently or that currently we deem to be immaterial also may impair our business operations. If we are unable to prevent events that have a negative effect from occurring, then our business may suffer. Negative events are likely to decrease our revenue, increase our costs, make our financial results poorer and/or decrease our financial strength, and may cause our stock price to decline.. Risks Related to Our Business, Industry, and Operations. We have significant debt and our failure to generate cash flow sufficient to cover required interest and principal payments could result in defaults of the related debt.. As of December 31, 2017, we had mortgage and other indebtedness, excluding deferred loan costs, totaling approximately $967.3 million. We cannot assure you that we will generate cash flow from operations or receive proceeds from refinancings, other financings or the sales of assets sufficient to cover required interest and principal payments. Any payment or other default could cause the applicable lender to foreclose upon the communities securing the indebtedness with a consequent loss of income and asset value to us. Further, because some of our mortgages contain cross-default and cross-collateralization provisions, a payment or other default by us with respect to one community could affect a significant number of our other communities.. We have significant lease obligations and our failure to generate cash flows sufficient to cover these lease obligations could result in defaults under the lease agreements.. As of December 31, 2017, we leased 46 communities with future lease obligations totaling approximately $433.3 million, with minimum lease obligations of $63.6 million in fiscal 2018. We cannot assure you that we will generate cash flow from operations or receive proceeds from refinancings, other financings or the sales of assets sufficient to cover these required operating lease obligations. Any payment or other default under any such lease could result in the termination of the lease, with a consequent loss of income and asset value to us. Further, because our leases contain cross-default provisions, a payment or other default by us with respect to one leased community could affect all of our other leased communities with related lessors. Certain of our leases contain various financial and other restrictive covenants, which could limit our flexibility in operating our business. Failure to maintain compliance with the lease obligations as set forth in our lease agreements could have a material adverse impact on us. The termination of a significant portion of our facility lease agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, and results of operations.. Our failure to comply with financial covenants and other restrictions contained in debt instruments and lease agreements could result in the acceleration of the related debt or lease or in the exercise of other remedies.. Our outstanding indebtedness and leases are secured by our communities, and, in certain cases, a guaranty by our Company or by one or more of our subsidiaries. Therefore, an event of default under the outstanding indebtedness or leases, subject to cure provisions in certain instances, would give the respective lenders or lessors, as applicable, the right to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable, terminate the lease, or foreclose on collateral securing the outstanding indebtedness and leases.. There are various financial covenants and other restrictions in certain of our debt instruments and lease agreements, including provisions which:. •  require us to meet specified financial tests at the subsidiary company level, which include, but are not limited to, tangible net worth requirements;. •  require us to meet specified financial tests at the community level, which include, but are not limited to, lease coverage tests; and. •  require consent for changes in control of us.. 20. If we fail to comply with any of these requirements, then the related indebtedness or lease obligations could become due and payable prior to their stated dates. We cannot assure that we could pay these debt or lease obligations if they became due prior to their stated dates.. We will require additional financing and/or refinancings in the future and may issue equity securities.. Our ability to obtain such financing or refinancing on terms acceptable to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, and results of operations. Our ability to meet our long-term capital requirements, including the repayment of certain long-term debt obligations, will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain additional financing or refinancings on acceptable terms from available financing sources, including through the use of mortgage financing, joint venture arrangements, by accessing the debt and/or equity markets and possibly through operating leases or other types of financing, such as lines of credit. Turmoil in the financial markets can severely restrict the availability of funds for borrowing and may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital. There can be no assurance that financing or refinancings will be available or that, if available, will be on terms acceptable to us. Moreover, raising additional funds through the issuance of equity securities could cause existing stockholders to experience dilution and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Disruptions in the financial markets may have a significant adverse effect on the market value of our common stock and other adverse effects on us and our business. Our inability to obtain additional financing or refinancings on terms acceptable to us could delay or eliminate some or all of our growth plans, necessitate the sales of assets at unfavorable prices or both, and would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, and results of operations.. Increases in market interest rates and/or the Consumer Price Index (\"CPI\") could significantly increase the costs of our floating rate debt and lease obligations, which could adversely affect our liquidity and earnings.. Our floating rate debt and lease obligations and any future indebtedness and lease obligations, if applicable, exposes us to interest rate and CPI risk. Therefore, any increase in prevailing interest rates or CPI could increase our future interest and/or lease payment obligations, which could in the future have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, and results of operations.. We cannot assure that we will be able to effectively manage our growth.. We intend to expand our operations, directly or indirectly, through the acquisition of existing senior housing communities and/or the expansion of some of our existing senior housing communities. The success of our growth strategy will depend, in large part, on our ability to implement these plans and to effectively operate these communities. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business, financial condition, cash flows, and results of operations may be adversely affected.. We cannot assure that we will attempt to, or be able to, acquire additional senior housing communities.. The acquisition of existing communities or other businesses involves a number of risks. Existing communities available for acquisition frequently serve or target different markets than those presently served by us. We may also determine that renovations of acquired communities and changes in staff and operations management personnel are necessary to successfully integrate those communities or businesses into our existing operations. The costs incurred to reposition or renovate newly acquired communities may not be recovered by us. In undertaking acquisitions, we also may be adversely impacted by unforeseen liabilities attributable to the prior operators of those communities or businesses, against whom we may have little or no recourse. The success of our acquisition strategy will be determined by numerous factors, including our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates; the competition for those acquisitions; the purchase price; the requirement to make operational or structural changes and improvements; the financial performance of the communities or businesses after acquisition; our ability to finance the acquisitions; and our ability to integrate effectively any acquired communities or businesses into our management, information, and operating systems. Additionally, there is competition among potential acquirers of communities in the senior housing industry, including real estate investment trusts (\"REITs\") and private equity firms, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully complete acquisitions, which could limit our ability to grow our business effectively. We cannot assure that our acquisition of senior housing communities or other businesses will be completed at the rate currently expected, if at all, or if completed, that any acquired communities or businesses will be successfully integrated into our operations which could have an adverse impact on our liquidity, revenues, results of operations, and cash flows.. 21. If we are unable to renovate, reposition, or redevelop our communities in accordance with our plans, our anticipated revenues, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected.. We are currently working on projects that will renovate, reposition, or redevelop a number of our existing senior housing communities. These projects are in various stages of development and are subject to a number of factors, some of which we have little or no control. Our ability to successfully renovate, reposition, or redevelop our senior housing communities will depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to acquire suitable sites at reasonable prices; our success in obtaining necessary zoning, licensing, and other required governmental permits and authorizations; and our ability to control construction costs and accurately project completion schedules. We anticipate that the renovation, repositioning, or redevelopment of existing senior housing communities may involve a substantial commitment of capital for a period of time of two years or more until completion and are operating and producing revenue. In addition, we may incur substantial costs prior to achieving stabilized occupancy for each project and cannot assure you that the costs will not be greater than we have anticipated. Our failure to achieve our renovation, repositioning, and redevelopment plans could adversely impact our anticipated revenues, results of operations, and cash flows.. Termination of resident agreements and resident attrition could affect adversely our revenues and earnings.. State regulations governing assisted living facilities require written resident agreements with each resident. Most of these regulations also require that each resident have the right to terminate the resident agreement for any reason on reasonable notice. Consistent with these regulations, the resident agreements signed by us allow residents to terminate their lease upon 0 to 30 days' notice. Thus, we cannot contract with residents to stay for longer periods of time, unlike typical apartment leasing arrangements that involve lease agreements with specified leasing periods of up to a year or longer. Our resident agreements generally provide for termination of the lease upon death or allow a resident to terminate their lease upon the need for a higher level of care not provided at the community. In addition, the advanced age of our average resident means that the resident turnover rate in our senior living facilities may be difficult to predict. If a large number of residents elected to or otherwise terminate their resident agreements at or around the same time, then our revenues and earnings could be adversely affected.. We largely rely on private pay residents and circumstances that adversely affect the ability of the elderly to pay for our services could have a material adverse effect on us.. Approximately 94.4% of our total revenues from communities that we operated were attributable to private pay sources and approximately 5.6% of our revenues from these communities were attributable to reimbursements from Medicaid, in each case, during fiscal 2017. We expect to continue to rely primarily on the ability of residents to pay for our services from their own or family financial resources. Unfavorable economic conditions in the housing, financial, and credit markets, inflation, or other circumstances that adversely affect the ability of the elderly to pay for our services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, and results of operations.. The senior living services industry is very competitive and some competitors may have substantially greater financial resources than us.. The senior living services industry is highly competitive, and we expect that all segments of the industry will become increasingly competitive in the future. We compete with other companies providing independent living, assisted living, home health care and other similar services and care alternatives. We also compete with other health care businesses with respect to attracting and retaining nurses, technicians, aides and other high quality professional and non-professional employees and managers. Although we believe there is a need for senior housing communities in the markets where we operate residences, we expect that competition will increase from existing competitors and new market entrants, some of whom may have substantially greater financial resources than us. In addition, some of our competitors operate on a not-for-profit basis or as charitable organizations and have the ability to finance capital expenditures on a tax-exempt basis or through the receipt of charitable contributions, neither of which are available to us. Furthermore, if the development of new senior housing communities outpaces the demand for those communities in the markets in which we have senior housing communities, those markets may become saturated. Regulation in the independent and assisted living industry is not substantial. Consequently, development of new senior housing communities could outpace demand. An oversupply of those communities in our markets could cause us to experience decreased occupancy, reduced operating margins and lower profitability.. 22. We rely on the services of key executive officers and the loss of these officers or their services could have a material adverse effect on us.. We depend on the services of our executive officers for our management. The loss of some of our executive officers and the inability to attract and retain qualified management personnel could affect our ability to manage our business and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, and results of operations.. A significant increase in our labor costs could have a material adverse effect on us.. We compete with other providers of senior living services with respect to attracting and retaining qualified management personnel responsible for the day-to-day operations of each of our communities and skilled personnel responsible for providing resident care. A shortage of nurses or trained personnel may require us to enhance our wage and benefits package in order to compete in the hiring and retention of these personnel or to hire more expensive temporary personnel. We also will be dependent on the available labor pool of semi-skilled and unskilled employees in each of the markets in which we operate. No assurance can be given that our labor costs will not increase, or that, if they do increase, they can be matched by corresponding increases in rates charged to residents. Any significant failure by us to control our labor costs or to pass on any increased labor costs to residents through rate increases could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, and results of operations.. We are subject to risks related to the provision for employee health care benefits and recent health care reform legislation.. We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance for employee health care plans. We record expenses under these plans based on estimates of the costs of expected claims, administrative costs and stop-loss premiums. These estimates are then adjusted to reflect actual costs incurred. Actual costs under these plans are subject to variability depending primarily upon participant enrollment and demographics, the actual costs of claims and whether stop-loss insurance covers these claims. In the event that our cost estimates differ from actual costs, we could incur additional unplanned health care costs which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, and results of operations.. In March 2010, comprehensive health care reform legislation under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (HR 3590) and the Health Care Education and Affordability Reconciliation Act (HR 4872) was passed and signed into law. This legislation expands health care coverage to many uninsured individuals and expands health care coverage to those already insured under existing plans. The health care reform legislation includes, among other things, guaranteed coverage requirements, eliminates pre-existing condition exclusions and annual and lifetime maximum limits, restricts the extent to which policies can be rescinded, and imposes new and significant taxes on health insurers and health care benefits. Provisions of the health care reform legislation become effective at various dates over the next several years. The United States Department of Health and Human Services, National Association of Insurance Commissioners, Department of Labor and Treasury Department continue to issue necessary enabling regulations and guidance with respect to the health care reform legislation. Due to the breadth and complexity of the health care reform legislation, the lack of implementing regulations and interpretative guidance, and the phased-in nature of the implementation, it is difficult to predict the overall impact this legislation will have over the coming years; however, this legislation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, and results of operations.. 23. There is an inherent risk of liability in the provision of personal and health care services, not all of which may be covered by insurance.. The provision of personal and health care services in the long-term care industry entails an inherent risk of liability. In recent years, participants in the long-term care industry have become subject to an increasing number of lawsuits alleging negligence or related legal theories, many of which involve large claims and result in the incurrence of significant defense costs. Moreover, senior housing communities offer residents a greater degree of independence in their daily living. This increased level of independence may subject the resident and, therefore, us to risks that would be reduced in more institutionalized settings. We currently maintain insurance in amounts we believe are comparable to those maintained by other senior living companies based on the nature of the risks, our historical experience and industry standards, and we believe that this insurance coverage is adequate. However, we may become subject to claims in excess of our insurance or claims not covered by our insurance, such as claims for punitive damages, terrorism and natural disasters. A claim against us not covered by, or in excess of, our insurance could have a material adverse effect upon us.. In addition, our insurance policies must be renewed annually. Based upon poor loss experience, insurers for the long-term care industry have become increasingly wary of liability exposure. A number of insurance carriers have stopped writing coverage to this market, and those remaining have increased premiums and deductibles substantially. Therefore, we cannot assure that we will be able to obtain liability insurance in the future or that, if that insurance is available, it will be available on acceptable economic terms.. We are subject to government regulations and compliance, some of which are burdensome and some of which may change to our detriment in the future.. Federal and state governments regulate various aspects of our business. The development and operation of senior housing communities and the provision of health care services are subject to federal, state and local licensure, certification and inspection laws that regulate, among other matters, the number of licensed beds, the provision of services, the distribution of pharmaceuticals, billing practices and policies, equipment, staffing (including professional licensing), operating policies and procedures, fire prevention measures, environmental matters, and compliance with building and safety codes. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in the denial of reimbursement, the imposition of fines, temporary suspension of admission of new residents, suspension or decertification from the Medicaid program, restrictions on the ability to acquire new communities or expand existing communities and, in extreme cases, the revocation of a community's license or closure of a community. We believe that such regulation will increase in the future and we are unable to predict the content of new regulations or their effect on our business, any of which could materially adversely affect us.. Various states, including several of the states in which we currently operate, control the supply of licensed beds and assisted living communities through CON or other programs. In those states, approval is required for the addition of licensed beds and some capital expenditures at those communities. To the extent that a CON or other similar approval is required for the acquisition or construction of new communities, the expansion of the number of licensed beds, services, or existing communities, we could be adversely affected by our failure or inability to obtain that approval, changes in the standards applicable for that approval, and possible delays and expenses associated with obtaining that approval. In addition, in most states, the reduction of the number of licensed beds or the closure of a community requires the approval of the appropriate state regulatory agency and, if we were to seek to reduce the number of licensed beds at, or to close, a community, we could be adversely affected by a failure to obtain or a delay in obtaining that approval.. Federal and state anti-remuneration laws, such as \"anti-kickback\" laws, govern some financial arrangements among health care providers and others who may be in a position to refer or recommend patients to those providers. These laws prohibit, among other things, some direct and indirect payments that are intended to induce the referral of patients to, the arranging for services by, or the recommending of, a particular provider of health care items or services. Federal anti-kickback laws have been broadly interpreted to apply to some contractual relationships between health care providers and sources of patient referral. Similar state laws vary, are sometimes vague, and seldom have been interpreted by courts or regulatory agencies. Violation of these laws can result in loss of licensure, civil and criminal penalties, and exclusion of health care providers or suppliers from participation in the Medicaid program. There can be no assurance that those laws will be interpreted in a manner consistent with our practices.. 24. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, all places of public accommodation are required to meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. A number of additional federal, state and local laws exist that also may require modifications to existing and planned communities to create access to the properties by disabled persons. Although we believe that our communities are substantially in compliance with present requirements or are exempt therefrom, if required changes involve a greater expenditure than anticipated or must be made on a more accelerated basis than anticipated, additional costs would be incurred by us. Further legislation may impose additional burdens or restrictions with respect to access by disabled persons, the costs of compliance with which could be substantial.. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, in conjunction with the federal regulations promulgated thereunder by the Department of Health and Human Services, has established, among other requirements, standards governing the privacy of certain protected and individually identifiable health information that is created, received or maintained by a range of covered entities. HIPAA has also established standards governing uniform health care transactions, the codes and identifiers to be used by the covered entities and standards governing the security of certain electronic transactions conducted by covered entities. Penalties for violations can range from civil money penalties for errors and negligent acts to criminal fines and imprisonment for knowing and intentional misconduct. HIPAA is a complex set of regulations and many unanswered questions remain with respect to the manner in which HIPAA applies to businesses such as those operated by us.. An increasing number of legislative initiatives have been introduced or proposed in recent years that would result in major changes in the health care delivery system on a national or a state level. Among the proposals that have been introduced are price controls on hospitals, insurance market reforms to increase the availability of group health insurance to small businesses, requirements that all businesses offer health insurance coverage to their employees and the creation of government health insurance plans that would cover all citizens and increase payments by beneficiaries. We cannot predict whether any of the above proposals or other proposals will be adopted and, if adopted, no assurances can be given that their implementation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We may be subject to liability for environmental damages.. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at the property, and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by those parties in connection with the contamination. These laws typically impose clean-up responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants, and liability under these laws has been interpreted to be joint and several unless the harm is divisible and there is a reasonable basis for allocation of responsibility. The costs of investigation, remediation or removal of the substances may be substantial, and the presence of the substances, or the failure to properly remediate the property, may adversely affect the owner's ability to sell or lease the property or to borrow using the property as collateral. In addition, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances also may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of the substances at the disposal or treatment facility, whether or not the facility is owned or operated by the person. Finally, the owner of a site may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from a site. If we become subject to any of these claims the costs involved could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, and results of operations.. Damage from catastrophic weather and other natural events could result in losses.. A certain number of our properties are located in areas that have experienced and may experience in the future catastrophic weather and other natural events from time to time, including snow or ice storms, windstorm, tornados, hurricanes, fires, earthquakes, flooding or other severe weather. The Company maintains insurance policies, including coverage for business interruption, designed to mitigate financial losses resulting from such adverse weather and natural events; however, there can be no assurance that adverse weather or natural events will not cause substantial damages or losses to our communities that could exceed our insurance coverage. In the event of a loss in excess of insured limits, such loss could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, and results of operations.. 25. We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business.. We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information and to manage or support a variety of our business processes, including medical records, financial transactions and maintenance of records, which may include personally identifiable information of residents and other customers and payroll data. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmitting and storing confidential information, such as personally identifiable information relating to health and financial accounts. Although we have taken steps to protect the security of the data maintained in our information systems, it is possible that our security measures will not be able to prevent the systems' improper functioning, or the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information such as in the event of cyber-attacks. Security breaches, including physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers and similar breaches, can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information; however, no instances of these potential threats have been identified by the Company. The Company maintains cyber and data privacy-related insurance coverage which provides liability protection associated with network security, privacy and sensitive electronic-data, and privacy breach expenses. Any failure to maintain proper function, security and availability of our information systems could interrupt our operations, damage our reputation, subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our governing documents, governing law and material agreements may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that our stockholders may consider favorable or prevent the removal of our current board of directors and management.. Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated by-laws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that our stockholders may consider favorable or prevent the removal of our current board of directors and management. We have a number of anti-takeover devices in place that will hinder takeover attempts, including: a staggered board of directors consisting of three classes of directors, each of whom serve three-year terms; removal of directors only for cause, and only with the affirmative vote of at least a majority of the voting interest of stockholders entitled to vote; right of our directors to issue preferred stock from time to time with voting, economic and other rights superior to those of our common stock without the consent of our stockholders; provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws limiting the right of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; advance notice requirements for stockholders with respect to director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings; requirement for two-thirds stockholder approval for amendment of our by-laws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation; and no provision in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation for cumulative voting in the election of directors, which means that the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock can elect all the directors standing for election.. Several of our leases, loan documents and other material agreements require approval in case of a change of control of our company. These provisions may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company even if this change of control would benefit our stockholders.. In addition to the anti-takeover provisions described above, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Section 203 generally prohibits a person beneficially owning, directly or indirectly, 15% or more of our outstanding common stock from engaging in a business combination with us for three years after the person acquired the stock. However, this prohibition does not apply if (A) our directors approve in advance the person's ownership of 15% or more of the shares or the business combination or (B) the business combination is approved by our stockholders by a vote of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares not owned by the acquiring person.. 26. Because we do not presently have plans to pay dividends on our common stock, stockholders must look solely to appreciation of our common stock to realize a gain on their investment.. It is the policy of our Board of Directors to retain any future earnings to finance the operation and expansion of the Company's business. Accordingly, the Company has not and does not currently anticipate declaring or paying cash dividends on your common stock in the foreseeable future. The payment of cash dividends in the future will be at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on, among other things, the Company's earnings, operations, capital requirements, financial condition, restrictions in then existing financing agreements and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. Accordingly, stockholders must look solely to appreciation of our common stock to realize a gain on their investment. This appreciation may not occur.. The price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially over the past several years and may continue to fluctuate substantially in the future.. Our stock price may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, which are described throughout this Annual report on Form 10-K, including those factors discussed under this section entitled \"Risk Factors.\" Some of these factors are beyond our control. We may fail to meet the expectations of our stockholders or securities analysts at some point in the future, and our stock price could decline as a result.. Future offerings of equity securities by us may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by offering additional equity securities. Additional equity offerings may dilute the economic and voting rights of our existing stockholders and/or reduce the market price of our common stock. Our decision to issue equity securities in a future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing, or nature of our future offerings. Thus, holders of our common stock bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their holdings in our Company."
