[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. Our increased emphasis on commercial real estate and commercial and industrial lending may expose us to increased lending risks. At December 31, 2015, our loan portfolio included $287.8 million of commercial real estate loans, or 49.1% of total loans, and $71.5 million of commercial and industrial loans, or 12.2% of total loans. We have grown the commercial  loan portfolio in recent years and intend to continue to grow commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loans. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one-to-four-family residential real estate loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one-to-four-family residential real estate loans. Commercial and industrial loans expose us to additional risks since they typically are made on the basis of the borrower's ability to make repayments from the cash flow of the borrower's business and are secured by non-real estate collateral that may depreciate over time. In addition, since such loans generally entail greater risk than one-to-four-family residential real estate loans, we may need to increase our allowance for loan losses in the future to account for the likely increase in probable credit losses associated with the growth of such loans. Also, many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one-to-four-family residential mortgage loan.. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets may adversely affect our operations and results.  Since the latter half of 2007, negative developments in the global credit and securitization markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets and a general economic downturn which has continued into 2014.  The economic downturn was accompanied by deteriorated loan portfolio quality at many institutions, including Chicopee Savings Bank.  In addition, the value of real estate collateral supporting many home mortgages has declined and may continue to decline.  Bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. These negative developments along with the turmoil and uncertainties that have accompanied them have heavily influenced the formulation and enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, along with its implications as described elsewhere in this \"Risk Factors\" section.  In addition to the many future implementing rules and regulations of the Dodd-Frank Act, the potential exists for other new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards to be enacted. Bank regulatory agencies are expected to continue to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international. 17. credit markets, and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments, may negatively impact our operations by increasing our costs, restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. In addition, these risks could affect the value of our loan portfolio as well as the value of our investment portfolio, which would also negatively affect our financial performance.. A downturn in the local economy or a decline in real estate values could decrease our profits. Nearly all of our real estate loans are secured by real estate in Hampden County. As a result of this concentration, a downturn in the local economy could cause significant increases in non-performing loans, which would decrease our profits. Additionally, a decrease in asset quality could require additions to our allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would hurt our profits. A continued decline in real estate values could cause some of our real estate loans to become inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss. In addition, because we have a significant amount of commercial real estate loans, decreases in tenant occupancy may also have a negative effect on the ability of many of our borrowers to make timely repayments on their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings.. We could be held responsible for environmental liabilities of properties we acquired through foreclosure.  In the course of business, we may acquire, through foreclosure, properties securing loans originated or purchased that are in default. Particularly in commercial real estate lending, there is a risk that material environmental violations could be discovered on these properties. In this event, we might be required to remedy these violations at the affected properties at our sole cost and expense. The cost of remedial action could substantially exceed the value of affected properties. We may not have adequate remedies against the prior owner or other responsible parties and could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties. These events could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to liquidity risk. Liquidity risk is the risk of potential loss if we are unable to meet our funding requirements at a reasonable cost. Our liquidity could be impaired by an inability to access the capital markets or by unforeseen outflows of cash. This situation may arise due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects parties or us.. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  Our results of operations and financial condition are significantly affected by changes in interest rates.  Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings.  Because our interest-earning assets generally reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-bearing liabilities, an increase in interest rates generally would tend to result in an increase in net interest income. Changes in interest rates also affect the current fair value of our interest-earning securities portfolio.  Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. Additionally, a majority of our single-family real estate loans held for investment are adjustable-rate loans.  Any rise in market interest rates may result in increased payments for borrowers who have adjustable rate loans, increasing the possibility of default.. For further discussion of how changes in interest rates could impact us, see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Risk Management-Interest Rate Risk Management.\". Prepayments of loans may negatively impact our business. Generally, our customers may prepay the principal amount of their outstanding loans at any time. The speeds at which such prepayments occur, as well as the size of such prepayments, are within our customers' discretion. If customers prepay the principal amount of their loans, and we are unable to lend those funds to other borrowers or invest the funds at the same or higher interest rates, our interest income will be reduced. A significant reduction in interest income could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition.. We face significant legal risks, both from regulatory investigations and proceedings and from private actions brought against us. From time to time, we may be named as a defendant or are otherwise involved in various legal proceedings, including class actions and other litigation or disputes with third parties. There is no assurance that litigation with private parties will not increase in the future. Future actions against us may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other results adverse to us, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, or cause serious reputational harm to us. As a participant in the financial services industry, we are exposed to a high level of potential litigation related to our businesses and operations. Although we maintain insurance, the scope of this coverage may not provide us with full, or even partial, coverage in any particular case. As a result, a judgment against us in any such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation.. Our businesses and operations are also subject to increasing regulatory oversight and scrutiny, which may lead to additional regulatory investigations or enforcement actions. These and other initiatives from federal and state officials may subject us to. 18. further judgments, settlements, fines or penalties, or cause us to be required to restructure our operations and activities, all of which could lead to reputational issues, or higher operational costs, thereby reducing our revenue.. We are subject to reputational risk. We are dependent on our reputation within our market area, as a trusted and responsible financial company, for all aspects of our relationships with customers, employees, vendors, third-party service providers, and others, with whom we conduct business or potential future business. Our actual or perceived failure to (a) identify and address potential conflicts of interest, ethical issues, money-laundering, or privacy issues; (b) meet legal and regulatory requirements applicable to the Bank and to the Company; (c) maintain the privacy of customer and accompanying personal information; (d) maintain adequate record keeping; (e) engage in proper sales and trading practices; and (f) identify the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity and market risks inherent in our products could give rise to reputational risk that could cause harm to the Bank and our business prospects. If we fail to address any of these issues in an appropriate manner, we could be subject to additional legal risks, which, in turn, could increase the size and number of litigation claims and damages asserted or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties and cause us to incur related costs and expenses. Our ability to attract and retain customers and employees could be adversely affected to the extent our reputation is damaged.. We may incur fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations, possibly even inadvertent or unintentional violations. We maintain systems and procedures designed to ensure that we comply with applicable laws and regulations. However, some legal/regulatory frameworks provide for the imposition of fines or penalties for noncompliance even though the noncompliance was inadvertent or unintentional and even though there was in place at the time systems and procedures designed to ensure compliance. For example, we are subject to regulations issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, or \"OFAC,\" that prohibit financial institutions from participating in the transfer of property belonging to the governments of certain foreign countries and designated nationals of those countries. OFAC may impose penalties for inadvertent or unintentional violations even if reasonable processes are in place to prevent the violations. There may be other negative consequences resulting from a finding of noncompliance, including restrictions on certain activities. Such a finding may also damage our reputation as described below and could restrict the ability of institutional investment managers to invest in our securities.. Historically low interest rates may adversely affect our net interest income and profitability. During the past six years it has been the policy of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (\"Federal Reserve Board\") to maintain interest rates at historically low levels through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. As a result, market rates on the loans we have originated and the yields on securities we have purchased have been at lower levels than available prior to 2008. As a general matter, our interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, which has resulted in increases in net interest income as interest rates decreased. However, our ability to lower our interest expense is limited at these interest rate levels while the average yield on our interest-earning assets may continue to decrease. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has recently indicated its intention to increase short term rates. Accordingly, our net interest income (the difference between interest income earned on assets and interest expense paid on liabilities) may be adversely affected and may even decrease, which may have an adverse effect on our profitability.. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings will decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans.  In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions.  If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable losses in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance.  Our allowance for loan losses was 0.96% of total loans at December 31, 2015. Material additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs.  Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in accounting standards could affect our reported results of operations.   The bodies responsible for establishing accounting standards, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission and other regulatory bodies, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting guidance that governs the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply new or revised guidance retroactively.. In December 2012, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued for public comment a Proposed Accounting Standards Update that would remove the existing \"probable\" threshold in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (\"GAAP\") for recognizing credit losses and broaden the range of information that must be considered in measuring the allowance for expected credit losses.  This proposal, if adopted as presented, could have a material negative impact on our reported results of operations and capital.. 19. We may be unable to attract and retain key personnel. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry can be intense and we may not be able to hire or retain the key personnel that we depend upon for success. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of the markets in which we operate, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel.. We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure. Third party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access and core application processing. While we have selected these third party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including as a result of their not providing us their services for any reason or their performing their services poorly, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers or otherwise conduct our business efficiently and effectively. Replacing these third party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense.. We are subject to extensive regulatory oversight. We are subject to extensive supervision, regulation, and examination by the Federal Reserve Board, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Massachusetts Division of Banks. As a result, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, undertake new investments and activities, and obtain financing. This regulatory structure is designed primarily for the protection of the Deposit Insurance Fund of the FDIC, the Depositor's Insurance Fund of Massachusetts, and our depositors, and not to benefit our stockholders. This regulatory structure also gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement actions and examination policies, including policies with respect to capital levels, the timing and amount of dividend payments, the classification of assets, the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes and the timing and amounts of assessments and fees.. In addition, we must comply with significant anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws and regulations, CRA laws and regulations, and fair lending laws and regulations. Government agencies have the authority to impose monetary penalties and other sanctions on institutions that fail to comply with these laws and regulations, which could significantly affect our business activities, including our ability to acquire other financial institutions or expand our branch network.. Government responses to economic conditions may adversely affect our operations, financial condition and earnings.  The Dodd-Frank Act has changed the bank regulatory framework.  For example, it has created an independent Consumer Financial Protection Bureau that has assumed the consumer protection responsibilities of the various federal banking agencies, and established more stringent capital standards for banks and bank holding companies. The legislation has also resulted in new regulations affecting the lending, funding, trading and investment activities of banks and bank holding companies.  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions such as Home Federal, including the authority to prohibit \"unfair, deceptive or abusive\" acts and practices.  Banks and savings institutions with $10.0 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined by their applicable bank regulators.  The new legislation also gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce applicable federal consumer protection laws. Bank regulatory agencies also have been responding aggressively to concerns and adverse trends identified in examinations.  Ongoing uncertainty and adverse developments in the financial services industry and in the domestic and international credit markets, and the effect of new legislation and regulatory actions in response to these conditions, may adversely affect our operations by restricting our business activities, including our ability to originate or sell loans, modify loan terms, or foreclose on property securing loans.. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business will not be known until all of the regulations implementing the statute are adopted and implemented.  As a result, we cannot at this time predict the extent to which the Dodd-Frank Act will impact our business, operations or financial condition. However, compliance with these new laws and regulations may require us to make changes to our business and operations and will likely result in additional costs and divert management's time from other business activities, any of which may adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition.. Furthermore, the Federal Reserve Board, in an attempt to help the overall economy, has, among other things, adopted a low interest rate policy through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities.  If the Federal Reserve Board significantly increases the federal funds rate, market interest rates would likely rise, which may negatively affect the housing markets and the U.S. economic recovery.. Legislative or regulatory responses to perceived financial and market problems could impair our rights against borrowers. Federal, state and local laws and policies could reduce the amount distressed borrowers are otherwise contractually obligated to pay under their mortgage loans, and may limit the ability of lenders to foreclose on mortgage collateral. Restrictions on Chicopee Savings Bank's rights as creditor could result in increased credit losses on our loans and mortgage-backed securities, or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor.. 20. Strong competition within our market area could hurt our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and attract deposits. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which reduces net interest income. As of June 30, 2015, we held 5.02% of the deposits in Hampden County, which was the 7th largest market share of deposits out of the 17 financial institutions in the county. This data does not include deposits held by one of our primary competitors, credit unions, which, as tax-exempt organizations, are able to offer higher rates on retail deposits than banks. There are 14 credit unions headquartered in Hampden County, some of the larger of which are headquartered in Chicopee, Massachusetts. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area.. We must adapt to information technology changes in the financial services industry, which could present operational issues, require significant capital spending, or impact our reputation. The financial services industry is constantly undergoing technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers.. Systems failures, interruptions or breaches of security could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors, inadequate or failed internal processes, customer or employee fraud and catastrophic failures resulting from terrorist acts or natural disasters. We depend upon data processing, software, communication, and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks and over the Internet, and we rely on the services of a variety of vendors to meet our data processing and communication needs. Despite instituted safeguards, we cannot be certain that all of our systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack or other technological difficulties or failures. Information security risks have increased significantly due to the use of online, telephone and mobile banking channels by customers and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists and other external parties. Our technologies, systems, networks and our customers' devices may be the target of, cyber-attacks, computer viruses, malicious code, phishing attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our or our customers' confidential, proprietary and other information, the theft of customer assets through fraudulent transactions or disruption of our or our customers' or other third parties' business operations. If information security is breached or other technology difficulties or failures occur, information may be lost or misappropriated, services and operations may be interrupted and we could be exposed to claims from customers. While we maintain a system of internal controls and procedures, any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.. The market value of wealth management assets under administration may be negatively affected by changes in economic and market conditions. A substantial portion of income from fiduciary services is dependent on the market value of wealth management assets under administration, which are primarily marketable securities. Changes in domestic and foreign economic conditions, volatility in financial markets, and general trends in business and finance, all of which are beyond our control, could adversely impact the market value of these assets and the fee revenues derived from the management of these assets.. We are a holding company and dependent upon our subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other payments.. We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our subsidiaries. Our revenue (on a parent-only basis) is derived primarily from interest and dividends paid to us by the Bank. Our right, and consequently the right of our shareholders, to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of the Bank through the payment of such dividends or otherwise is necessarily subject to the prior claims of creditors of the Bank (including depositors), except to the extent that certain claims of us in a creditor capacity may be recognized.. 21"
