[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. You should consider carefully the trends, risks and uncertainties described below and other information in this Form 10-K and subsequent reports filed with the SEC before making any investment decision with respect to our securities.  If any of the following trends, risks or uncertainties actually occurs or continues, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected, the trading prices of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Our business and financial performance largely depends on the level of activity in the natural gas and oil industries.. Our operations are materially dependent upon the levels of activity in natural gas and oil exploration, development and production.  More specifically, the demand for our products is closely related to the number of natural gas and oil wells completed in geologic formations where ceramic or sand proppants are used in fracture treatments.  These activity levels are affected by both short-term and long-term trends in oil and natural gas prices.  In recent years, oil and natural gas prices and, therefore, the level of exploration, development and production activity, have experienced significant fluctuations.  Worldwide economic, political and military events, including war, terrorist activity, events in the Middle East and initiatives by OPEC, have contributed, and are likely to continue to contribute, to price volatility.  Despite recent initiatives to curb supply, the global supply of oil is currently at historically. 9. high levels, and there is potential for geopolitical and regulatory events, such as normalization of trade relations with the Islamic Republic of Iran, to further increase the supply of oil.  Additionally, warmer than normal winters in North America and other weather patterns may adversely impact the short-term demand for natural gas and, therefore, demand for our products and services.  Natural gas prices experienced a significant decline during 2012 and, although they have increased since then, remain relatively low on a historic basis, resulting in generally lower gas drilling activity.  Further, the price of oil declined precipitously from the second half of 2014 through mid-2016 and, although the price has rebounded from its low, it still remains at weakened levels for industry activity.  This reduction in oil and natural gas prices has depressed the level of natural gas and oil exploration, development, production and well completions activity, resulting in significantly reduced demand and pricing for our products.  This decline has had, and continues to have, a significant adverse impact on our results.  If oil and natural gas prices and well completion activity do not materially improve and/or demand for our products does not otherwise increase, this decline could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operations, including, but not limited to, the temporary idling of all, or a portion of all, of our facilities until such time as market conditions improve.. We may not have sufficient cash and/or be able to access liquidity alternatives in the credit and capital markets to meet our liquidity needs.. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash on hand and cash flow from operations.  Our ability to fund our working capital and capital expenditures and other obligations depends on our future operating performance and cash from operations and other liquidity-generating transactions, which are in turn subject to prevailing oil and natural gas prices, economic conditions and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.. If our future operating performance falls materially below our expectations, our plans prove to be materially inaccurate, or industry conditions do not materially improve, we may require additional financing.  Even if additional or alternative financing becomes available to us, future financing transactions may significantly increase the Company's interest expense, which could in turn reduce our financial flexibility and our ability to fund other activities, and could make us more vulnerable to changes in operating performance or economic downturns generally.  The inability to generate sufficient cash, modify our New Credit Agreement, or obtain replacement or additional financing, or an event of default under our New Credit Agreement, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. We therefore cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to access the capital or credit markets on acceptable terms or timing, or at all.  Access to the capital markets and the cost and availability of credit may be adversely affected by factors beyond our control, including turmoil in the financial services industry, volatility in securities trading markets, the continuing downturn in the oil and gas industry and general economic conditions.  Currently, we do not qualify as a \"well-known seasoned issuer,\" which otherwise would allow us to, among other things, file automatically effective shelf registration statements.  Now, even if we are able to access the public capital markets, any attempt to do so could be more expensive or subject us to significant delays when compared with previous periods.. Our business and financial performance has suffered and could suffer further if the levels of hydraulic fracturing continue to decline or cease as a result of the low commodity price of oil and natural gas, development of new processes, increased regulation or a continued decrease in drilling activity.. Substantially all of our products are proppants used in the completion and re-completion of natural gas and oil wells through the process of hydraulic fracturing.  Completion activity is directly impacted by the price of oil and natural gas.  In addition, demand for our proppants is substantially higher in the case of horizontally drilled wells, which allow for multiple hydraulic fractures within the same well bore but are more expensive to develop than vertically drilled wells.  A reduction in horizontal drilling or the development of new processes for the completion of natural gas and oil wells leading to a reduction in, or discontinuation of the use of, hydraulic fracturing could cause a decline in demand for our products.  Additionally, increased regulation or environmental restrictions on hydraulic fracturing or the materials used in this process could negatively affect our business by increasing the costs of compliance or resulting in operational delays, which could cause operators to abandon the process due to commercial impracticability.  Moreover, future federal, state, local or foreign laws or regulations could otherwise limit or ban hydraulic fracturing.  Several states in which our customers operate have adopted, or are considering adopting, regulations that have imposed, or could impose, more stringent permitting, transparency, disposal and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations.  Some states, such as New York, have banned the process of hydraulic fracturing altogether.  Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  As stated elsewhere, the upstream oil and natural gas industry is in the midst of a severe contraction, resulting in a significant reduction in horizontal drilling and further resulting in a material decline in demand for our products and services.. 10. We face distribution and logistical challenges in our business. As oil and natural gas prices fluctuate, our customers may shift their focus back and forth between different resource plays, some of which can be located in geographic areas that do not have well-developed transportation and distribution infrastructure systems.  Transportation and logistical operating expenses continue to comprise a significant portion of our total delivered cost of sales.  Therefore, serving our clients in these less-developed areas presents distribution and other operational challenges that affect our sales and negatively impact our operating costs.  Disruptions in transportation services, including shortages of rail cars or a lack of rail transportation services or developed infrastructure, could affect our ability to timely and cost effectively deliver products to our customers and could provide a competitive advantage to competitors located in closer proximity to customers.  Additionally, increases in the price of diesel fuel could negatively impact operating costs if we are unable to pass those increased costs along to our customers.  Failure to find long-term solutions to these logistical challenges could adversely affect our ability to respond quickly to the needs of our customers or result in additional increased costs, and thus could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.. We operate in an increasingly competitive market.. The proppant market is highly competitive.  We compete with other domestic and international suppliers of ceramic proppant, as well as with suppliers of sand for use as proppant, in the hydraulic fracturing of natural gas and oil wells.  The expiration of key patents owned by the Company has resulted in additional competition in the market for ceramic proppant.  The entry of additional competitors into the market to supply ceramic proppant and/or a surge in the level of ceramic proppant imports into North America from existing competitors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. We have been and may continue to be adversely affected by decreased demand for our proppant or the development by our competitors of alternative proppants.. Ceramic proppant is a premium product capable of withstanding higher pressure and providing more highly conductive fractures than mined sand, which is the most commonly used proppant type.  We continue to see operators that have traditionally used ceramic proppant shifting to use mined sand instead.  Despite recently improving commodity prices in the oil and natural gas industry, continued pressure on operators to reduce cost or to evaluate returns on a shorter horizon has had a detrimental impact on the demand for ceramic proppant, which is a higher cost product than mined sand.  Although we believe that the use of quality ceramic proppant in appropriate geologic formations typically generates higher production rates and more favorable long-term production economics than mined sand, the shifting of customer demand to lower cost products, such as mined sand, has had an adverse effect on our results of operations and its continuation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.  The development and use of alternative proppant could also cause a decline in demand for our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. We have no current plans to pay cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future and our Amended Credit Agreement contains restrictions on our ability to pay dividends; therefore, you may not receive any return on investment unless you sell your common stock for a price greater than you paid.. We do not plan to declare dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future.  In addition, our Amended Credit Agreement prohibits us from paying such dividends.  We currently intend to retain any future earnings to finance the operation of our business and meet our debt obligations.  As a result, you may only receive a return on your investment in our common stock if the market price of our common stock increases.  Further, one of our financing options involves the issuance of equity securities, which would dilute current stockholders and could reduce our stock price.. The outstanding indebtedness under our New Credit Agreement is secured by a substantial portion of our domestic assets and guaranteed by our two domestic operating subsidiaries, subject to certain exceptions.. The outstanding indebtedness under our New Credit Agreement is secured by (i) a pledge of all accounts receivable and inventory, (ii) cash in certain accounts, (iii) domestic distribution assets residing on owned real property, (iv) our Marshfield, Wisconsin and Toomsboro, Georgia plant facilities and equipment, and (v) certain real property interests in mines and minerals.  In the event of a default, our lenders may (1) elect to declare all outstanding borrowings made under the New Credit Agreement and the guaranties of the two operating subsidiaries, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable; (2) exercise their set-off rights; and/or (3) enforce and foreclose on their security interest and liquidate some or all of such pledged assets.  Any of these actions could, individually or in the aggregate, have a substantial negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. 11. We rely upon, and receive a significant percentage of our revenues from, a limited number of key customers and end users.. During 2017, our key customers included several of the largest participants in the worldwide petroleum pressure pumping industry.  Two of these customers each accounted for more than 10% of our 2017 revenues.  However, the end users of our products are numerous operators of natural gas and oil wells that hire pressure pumping service companies to hydraulically fracture wells.  During 2017, a majority of our ceramic proppant sales were directed to a concentrated number of end users.  We generally supply our domestic pumping service customers with products on a just-in-time basis, with transactions governed by individual purchase orders and/or a master supply agreement.  Because of their purchasing power, our key customers may have greater bargaining leverage than us with respect to the negotiation of prices and other terms of the sale in their supply contracts with us, which in turn, could adversely affect our profit margins associated with those contracts.  Disparities in bargaining leverage, when combined with the Company's desire to maintain long-term relationships with key customers, could limit our practical ability to assert certain terms of our supply agreements with them.  Continuing sales of our products depend on our direct customers and the end user well operators being satisfied with product quality, pricing, availability, and delivery performance.  While we believe we have satisfactory relations with our customers and our end users, a material decline in the level of sales to any one of our major customers or loss of a key end user due to unsatisfactory product performance, pricing, delivery delays or any other reason could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. The operations of our customers, and thus the results of our operations, are subject to a number of operational risks, interruptions and seasonal trends.. As hydraulic fracturing jobs have increased in size and intensity, common issues such as weather, equipment delays or changes in the location and types of oil and natural gas plays can result in increased variability in proppant sales volumes.  Our business operations and those of our customers involve a high degree of operational risk.  Natural disasters, adverse weather conditions, collisions and operator error could cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property, equipment and the environment, and suspension of operations.  Our customers perform work that is subject to unexpected or arbitrary interruption or termination.  The occurrence of any of these events could result in work stoppage, loss of revenue, casualty loss, increased costs and significant liability to third parties.  With the increase in resource plays in the northern and eastern United States, as well as our operations in Marshfield, Wisconsin, our results of operations are increasingly exposed to seasonal variations and inclement weather.  Operations in certain regions involve more seasonal risk in the winter months, and work is hindered during other inclement weather events.  This variability makes it more difficult to predict sales and can result in greater fluctuations to our quarterly financial results.  These quarterly fluctuations could result in operating results that are below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and therefore may adversely affect the market price for our common stock.. The ability of our customers to complete work, as well as our ability to mine sand from cold climate areas, could be affected during the winter months.  Our revenue and profitability could decrease during these periods, as well as in other severe weather conditions, because work is either prevented or more costly to complete.  If a substantial amount of production is interrupted, our cash flow and, in turn, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Our North American ceramic proppant production is manufactured at two plants.  The vast majority of our mined sand is processed at one plant.  Any adverse developments at those plants could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. With the mothballing of our Millen plant and the very limited production at our McIntyre plant, we are producing the majority of our North American ceramic production from two plants, our Eufaula and our Toomsboro plant.  Our Marshfield, Wisconsin plant represents the vast majority of our annual mined sand processing capacity.  Any adverse developments at these plants, including a material disruption in production, an inability to supply the plant with raw materials at a competitive cost, or adverse developments due to catastrophic events, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We provide environmental warranties on certain of our containment and spill prevention products.. AGPI's tank liners, secondary containments and related products and services are designed to contain or avoid spills of hydrocarbons and other materials.  If a release of these materials occurs, it could be harmful to the environment.  Although we attempt to negotiate appropriate limitations of liability in the applicable terms of sale, some customers have required expanded warranties, indemnifications or other terms that could hold AGPI responsible in the event of a spill or release under particular circumstances.  If AGPI is held responsible for a spill or release of materials from one of its customer's facilities, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. 12. We rely upon intellectual property to protect our proprietary rights.  Failure to protect our intellectual property rights may affect our competitive position, and protecting our rights or defending against third-party allegations of infringement may be costly.. The Company uses a significant amount of trade secrets, or \"know-how,\" and other proprietary information and technology in the conduct of its business.  In some cases, we rely on trade secrets, trademarks or contractual restrictions to protect intellectual property rights that are not patented.  The steps we take to protect the non-patented intellectual property may not be sufficient to protect it and any loss or diminishment of such intellectual property rights could negatively impact our competitive advantage.  Additionally, our competitors could independently develop the same or similar technologies that are only protected by trade secret and thus do not prevent third parties from competing with us.  Furthermore, even protected intellectual property rights can be infringed upon by third parties.  Monitoring unauthorized use of Company intellectual property can be difficult and expensive, and adequate remedies may not be available.. Although the Company does not believe that it is infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others by using such proprietary information and technology, it is possible that such a claim might be asserted against the Company in the future.  In the event any third party makes a claim against us for infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights of a third party, such claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and result in costly litigation.  In addition, the Company could experience loss or cancellation of customer orders, experience product shipment delays, or be subject to significant liabilities to third parties.  If our products or services were found to infringe on a third party's proprietary rights, the Company could be required to enter into royalty or licensing agreements to continue selling its products or services.  Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, which could seriously harm our business.  Involvement in any patent dispute or other intellectual property dispute or action to protect trade secrets and expertise could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business.. Significant increases in fuel prices for any extended periods of time will increase our operating expenses.. The price and supply of natural gas are unpredictable, and can fluctuate significantly based on international, political and economic circumstances, as well as other events outside of our control, such as changes in supply and demand due to weather conditions, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, regional production patterns and environmental concerns.  Natural gas is a significant component of our direct manufacturing costs and price escalations will likely increase our operating expenses and can have a negative impact on income from operations and cash flows.  We operate in a competitive marketplace and may not be able to pass through all of the increased costs that could result from an increase in the cost of natural gas.. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities could reduce our earnings and cash available for operations.. We are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, water discharges and waste management.  The technical requirements of complying with these environmental laws and regulations are becoming increasingly expensive and complex, and may affect the Company's ability to expand its operations.  Our ability to continue the expansion of our manufacturing capacity to meet market demand is contingent upon obtaining required environmental permits and compliance with their terms, which continue to be more restrictive and require longer lead times to obtain in anticipation of any efforts to expand and increase capacity.  We incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations.. In addition, we use some hazardous substances and generate certain industrial wastes in our operations.  Many of our current and former properties are, or have been, used for industrial purposes.  Accordingly, we could become subject to potentially material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances.  These laws also may provide for \"strict liability\" for damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety.  Strict liability can render a party liable for environmental damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of the party.  Some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances.. Stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could restrict our expansion efforts, require us to incur costs, or become the basis of new or increased liabilities.  Any of these events could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations.. 13. Our international operations subject us to risks inherent in doing business on an international level that could adversely impact our results of operations.. International revenues accounted for approximately 21%, 34% and 29% of our total revenues in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  We may not succeed in overcoming the risks that relate to or arise from operating in international markets.  Risks inherent in doing business on an international level include, among others, the following:. •  economic and political instability (including as a result of the threat or occurrence of armed international conflict or terrorist attacks);. •  potential declines or increased volatility in oil and natural gas prices that would adversely affect our customers, the energy industry or our production costs;. •  changes in regulatory requirements, economic sanctions, tariffs, customs, duties and other trade barriers;. •  transportation delays and costs;. •  power supply shortages and shutdowns;. •  difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and other labor problems;. •  currency rate fluctuations, convertibility and repatriation;. •  taxation of our earnings and the earnings of our personnel;. •  potential expropriation of assets by foreign governments; and. •  other risks relating to the administration of or changes in, or new interpretations of, the laws, regulations and policies of the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business.. Undetected defects in our fracture simulation software could adversely affect our business.. Despite extensive testing, our software could contain defects, bugs or performance problems.  If any of these problems are not detected, the Company could be required to incur extensive development costs or costs related to product recalls or replacements.  The existence of any defects, errors or failures in our software products may subject us to liability for damages, delay the development or release of new products and adversely affect market acceptance or perception of our software products or related services, any one of which could materially and adversely affect the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.. The market price of our common stock will fluctuate, and could fluctuate significantly.. The market price of the Company's common stock will fluctuate, and could fluctuate significantly, in response to various factors and events, including the following:. •  the liquidity of the market for our common stock;. •  seasonal or quarterly sales fluctuations;. •  differences between our actual financial or operating results and those expected by investors and analysts;. •  changes in analysts' recommendations or projections;. •  a substantial short position in our stock;. •  new statutes or regulations or changes in interpretations of existing statutes and regulations affecting our business;. •  changes in general economic or market conditions; and. •  broad market fluctuations.. Our actual results could differ materially from results anticipated in forward-looking statements we make.. Some of the statements included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K are forward-looking statements.  These forward-looking statements include statements relating to trends in the natural gas and oil industries, the demand for ceramic proppant and our performance in the \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and \"Business\" sections of this Form 10-K.  In addition, we have made and may continue to make forward-looking statements in other filings with the SEC, and in written material, press releases and oral statements issued by us or on our behalf.  Forward-looking statements include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of the Company or its officers.  Our actual results could differ materially. 14. from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, and our financial forecasts are particularly sensitive to changes in the current market conditions.  Further, our financial forecasts have been less accurate during the recent downturn.  See \"Business - Forward-Looking Information.\". The success of our business depends on achieving our strategic objectives, including the diversification of our product and service portfolio. As we continue to expand our portfolio of product and service offerings to industrial and other new markets, we face certain risks associated with these new business strategies, including unknown regulatory changes and product acceptance by these new markets, that could affect our future financial results.  In addition, lower than expected sales in these new markets could have a material adverse effect on our results from operations and financial condition."
