[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. You should carefully consider the specific risk factors set forth below and the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this document, as these are important factors that could cause our actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from our expected or historical results. The ordering and lettering of the risk factors set forth below is not intended to reflect any Company indication of priority or likelihood. Some of the statements in this item and elsewhere in this document are \"forward-looking statements.\" For a discussion of those statements and of other factors to consider see the \"Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results\" section below.. a. The demand for cruises may decline due to adverse world events impacting the ability or desire of people to travel, including conditions affecting the safety and security of travel, government regulations and requirements, and declines in consumer confidence. Demand for cruises and other vacation options has been and is expected to continue to be affected by the public's concerns over the safety and security of travel. Government travel advisories and emerging travel restrictions, political instability and civil unrest, and general concerns over the safety and security of traveling have had a significant adverse impact on demand and pricing in the travel and vacation industry in the past and may have an adverse impact in the future.. Governmental actions which increase global travel regulations and restrictions may adversely impact demand for cruises. Heightened regulations around customs and border control, travel bans to and from certain geographical areas, government policies increasing the difficulty of travel and limitations on issuing international travel visas could reduce the ability or desire of people to travel.. Demand for cruises is in part dependent on consumer confidence in the economic condition of the countries from which cruise companies source their guests. Adverse changes in the perceived or actual economic climate, such as global or regional recessions, higher unemployment and underemployment rates and declines in income levels could reduce our potential vacationers' customer confidence of their discretionary incomes. Consequently, this may negatively affect demand for vacations, including cruise vacations, which are a discretionary purchase.. Decreases in demand could lead to price reductions which, in turn, could reduce the profitability of our business.. b. Incidents, such as ship incidents, security incidents, the spread of contagious diseases and threats thereof, adverse weather conditions or other natural disasters and the related adverse publicity affecting our reputation and the health, safety, security and satisfaction of guests and crew. The operation of cruise ships, hotels, land tours, port and related commercial facilities and shore excursions involve the risk of incidents, including those caused by the improper operation or maintenance of ships, motorcoaches and trains; guest and crew illnesses, such as from the spread of contagious diseases; mechanical failures, fires and collisions; repair delays; groundings; navigational errors; oil spills and other maritime and environmental issues; missing passengers and other incidents at sea or while in port or on land, which may cause injury and death, guest and crew discomfort, alteration of itineraries or cancellation of a cruise or series of cruises or tours. Although our uncompromising commitment to the safety and comfort of our guests and crew is paramount to the success of our business, our ships have been involved in accidents and other incidents in the past. We may experience similar or other incidents in the future. These types of incidents may bring into question guest and crew health, safety, security and satisfaction and may adversely affect our brands' reputations and the demand for our brands and cruising in general, which may affect our net revenue yields and profitability, result in additional costs to our business, and result in litigation against us and increasing government or other regulatory oversight.. Our ability to effectively and efficiently operate shipboard and shoreside activities may be impacted by widespread public health issues/illnesses or health warnings resulting in, among other things, reduced demand for cruises and cruise and ship charter cancellations and employee absenteeism that could have an adverse effect on our net revenue yields and profitability. For example, a severe outbreak of the influenza virus or some other pandemic could, among other things, disrupt our ability to embark/disembark passengers and crew, require changes to cruise itinerary, disrupt air and ground travel to and from ports, increase costs for prevention and treatment and adversely affect our supply chain and distribution systems. This could also adversely impact cruise demand in areas unaffected by such an outbreak.. Our ships are subject to the risks of mechanical failures and accidents, for which we have had to incur repair and equipment replacement expenditures. If these occur in the future, we may be unable to procure spare parts or new equipment when needed or make repairs without incurring significant expenditures or suspension of service. A significant performance problem on any of our ships could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and profitability.. 31. Our cruise ships, hotels, land tours, port and related commercial facilities, and shore excursions may be impacted by adverse weather patterns or other natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, fires, tornados, tsunamis, typhoons and volcanic eruptions. These events could result in, among other things, increased port related and other costs in our supply chain. It is possible that we could be forced to alter itineraries or cancel a cruise or a series of cruises or tours due to these or other factors, which would have an adverse effect on our net revenue yields and profitability.. Extreme weather events such as hurricanes, floods and typhoons may not only cause disruption, alteration, or cancellation of cruises but may also adversely impact commercial airline flights, other transport and shore excursion activities or prevent our guests from electing to cruise altogether. Such extreme weather events may also disrupt the supply of provisions, fuel and shore power, and may limit our ability to safely embark and disembark our guests. In addition, these extreme weather conditions could result in increased wave and wind activity, which would make it more challenging to sail and dock our ships and could cause sea/motion sickness among guests and crew. These events could have an adverse impact on the safety and satisfaction of cruising and could have an adverse impact on our net revenue yields and profitability. Additionally, these extreme weather conditions could cause property damage to our ships, port and related commercial and business facilities and other assets and impact our ability to provide our cruise products and services as well as to obtain insurance coverage for operations in such areas at reasonable rates.. Incidents involving cruise ships, in particular our cruise ships, and media coverage thereof, as well as adverse media publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry in general, or unusual weather patterns or other natural disasters or disruptions, such as hurricanes and earthquakes, could impact demand for our cruises. In addition, any incidents which impact the travel industry more generally may negatively impact guests' ability or desire to travel to or from our ships or interrupt our ability to obtain services and goods from key vendors in our supply chain. Any of the foregoing could have an adverse impact on our net revenue yields and profitability.. Maintaining a good reputation is critical to our business. Reports and media coverage of ship incidents at sea or while in port, including missing guests, improper conduct by our employees, guests or agents, crimes, dissatisfied guests, crew and guest illnesses, such as incidents of stomach flu and other contagious diseases, security breaches, terrorist threats and attacks and other adverse events can result in negative publicity, which could lead to a negative perception regarding the safety of our ships and the satisfaction of our guests. In addition, negative publicity regarding adverse environmental impacts of cruising, such as climate change and oil spills, could diminish our reputation. The considerable expansion in the use of social media over recent years has increased the ways in which our reputation can be impacted, and the speed with which it can occur. Anything that damages our reputation, whether or not justified, could have an adverse impact on demand, which could lead to price reductions and a reduction in our net revenue yields and profitability.. c. Changes in and compliance with laws and regulations relating to environment, health, safety, security, data privacy and protection, tax and anti-corruption under which we operate may lead to litigation, enforcement actions, fines, or penalties. We are subject to numerous international, national, state and local laws, regulations and treaties covering many areas, including social issues, health, safety, security, data privacy and protection, and tax. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations, treaties and agreements, including local cabotage requirements, could lead and has led to enforcement actions, fines, civil or criminal penalties or the assertion of litigation claims and damages. These issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world. Accordingly, new legislation, regulations or treaties, or changes thereto, could impact our operations and would likely subject us to increased compliance costs in the future. In addition, training of crew may become more time consuming and may increase our operating costs due to increasing regulatory and other requirements.. Environmental laws and regulations or liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances or vessel discharges, including ballast water and waste disposal, could materially increase our cost of compliance or otherwise adversely affect our business, profitability and financial condition. Some environmental groups have lobbied for more stringent regulation of cruise ships. Various agencies and regulatory organizations have enacted or are considering new regulations or policies, such as stricter emission limits to reduce GHG effects, which could adversely impact the cruise industry.. Our guest and employee relationships provide us with access to sensitive data. We are subject to laws and requirements related to the treatment and protection of sensitive data. We may be subject to legal liability and reputational damage if we do not comply with data privacy and protection regulations. Various governments, agencies and regulatory organizations have enacted and are considering new regulations and implementation of rules for existing regulations. Additional requirements could negatively impact our ability to market cruises to consumers and increase our costs.. 32. We are also subject to compliance with income tax laws, regulations and income tax treaties in the jurisdictions where we operate. We believe that substantially all of the income earned by Carnival Corporation, Carnival plc and their ship owning or operating subsidiaries qualifies for taxation based on ship tonnage, is exempt from taxation or is otherwise subject to minimal taxes in the jurisdictions where the entities are incorporated or do business.. We believe that Panama and the jurisdictions where the ship owning and operating subsidiaries of Carnival Corporation are formed are equivalent exemption jurisdictions for purposes of Section 883 of the Internal Revenue Code. The laws of Panama and the other jurisdictions where our ships are owned or operated are subject to change and, in the future, may no longer qualify as equivalent exemption jurisdictions. Moreover, changes could occur in the future with respect to the trading volume or trading frequency of Carnival Corporation shares, affecting Carnival Corporation's status as a publicly-traded corporation for purposes of Section 883.. The IRS interpretation of Section 883 could also differ materially from ours. In addition, provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, including Section 883, are subject to legislative change at any time. Accordingly, it is possible that Carnival Corporation and its ship-owning or operating subsidiaries whose tax exemption is based on Section 883 could lose this exemption.. There is no authority that directly addresses the effect, if any, of a DLC arrangement on the availability of benefits under treaties and, accordingly, their application to our operations is not free from doubt. The applicable treaties may be revoked by either applicable country, replaced or modified with new agreements that treat income from international operation of ships differently than the agreements currently in force or may be interpreted by one of its countries differently from us.. If we did not qualify for tonnage tax, exemption, treaties or minimal taxes, or if the laws that provide for these tax systems were changed, we would have significantly higher income tax expense. In many jurisdictions, the benefit of tonnage tax or preferential tax regimes would be replaced with taxation at normal statutory rates. In the absence of Section 883 or an applicable income tax treaty in the U.S., we would be subject to the net income and branch profits tax regimes of Section 882 and Section 884 of the Internal Revenue Code. In combination, these provisions would result in the taxation of our U.S. source shipping income, net of applicable deductions, at a current federal corporate income tax rate of up to 35% (as of November 30, 2017), state income tax rates would vary and our net after-tax income would be potentially subject to a further branch profits tax of 30% (as of November 30, 2017), unless a lower treaty rate applies.. We are subject to the examination of our income tax returns by tax authorities in the jurisdictions where we operate. There can be no assurance that the outcome from these examinations will not adversely affect our profitability.. As budgetary constraints continue to adversely impact the jurisdictions in which we operate, increases in income or other taxes affecting our operations may be imposed. Some social activist groups have lobbied for more taxation on income generated by cruise companies. Certain groups have also generated negative publicity for us. In recent years, certain members of the U.S. Congress have proposed various forms of legislation that would result in higher taxation on income generated by cruise companies.. Our global operations subject us to potential liability under anti-corruption, economic sanctions, and other laws and regulations. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations (\"Anti-Corruption Laws\") prohibit corrupt payments by our employees, vendors, or agents. While we devote substantial resources to our global compliance programs and have implemented policies, training, and internal controls designed to reduce the risk of corrupt payments, our employees, vendors, or agents may violate our policies. Our failure to comply with Anti-Corruption Laws could result in significant fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions or limitations on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation. Operations outside the U.S. may also be affected by changes in economic sanctions, trade protection laws, policies, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment. We may be subject to legal liability and reputational damage if we improperly sell goods or otherwise operate improperly in areas subject to economic sanctions such as Crimea, Iran, North Korea, Cuba, Sudan, and Syria or if we improperly engage in business transactions with persons subject to economic sanctions.. These various international laws and regulations could lead and has led to enforcement actions, fines, civil or criminal penalties or the assertion of litigation claims and damages. In addition, improper conduct by our employees or agents could damage our reputation and lead to litigation or legal proceedings that could result in significant awards or settlements to plaintiffs and civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines. Such events could lead to an adverse impact on our financial condition or profitability, even if the monetary damage is mitigated by our insurance coverage.. As a result of our ship or other incidents, litigation claims, enforcement actions and regulatory actions and investigations, including, but not limited to, those arising from personal injury, loss of life, loss of or damage to personal property, business. 33. interruption losses or environmental damage to any affected coastal waters and the surrounding areas, may be asserted or brought against various parties including us. The time and attention of our management may also be diverted in defending such claims, actions and investigations. We may also incur costs both in defending against any claims, actions and investigations and for any judgments, fines, civil or criminal penalties if such claims, actions or investigations are adversely determined and not covered by our insurance policies.. d. Disruptions and other damages to our information technology and other networks and operations, breaches in data security, lapses in data privacy, and failure to keep pace with developments in technology. Our business continues to demand the use of sophisticated systems and technology. Our ability to increase revenues and control costs, as well as our ability to serve guests most effectively depends in part on the reliability of our system networks and our ability to refine and update to more advanced systems and technologies. If we are unable to do so on a timely basis or within reasonable cost parameters, our business could suffer.. We use communication applications, information technology and other systems to manage our inventory of cabins held for sale and set pricing in order to maximize our revenue yields and to optimize the effectiveness and efficiency of our shoreside and shipboard operations. Possible system outages and the resulting downtime could have adverse consequences on our ability to run and manage our business.. Gaining unauthorized access to digital systems and networks for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive financial, medical or other personal or business information, corrupting data, causing shoreside or shipboard operational disruptions and other cyber attack risks could adversely impact our reputation, guest services and satisfaction, employee relationships, business plans, ship safety and costs.. As the use of the internet and sensitive data expands, regulators are addressing the risks related to technology and cybersecurity with enhanced regulations. We have initiated a global program to meet the compliance requirements for EU data privacy regulations. If we or our vendors experience significant data security breaches, privacy failures, or fail to detect and appropriately respond, we could be exposed to government enforcement actions and private litigation.. Our principal offices are located in Australia, Germany, Italy, the UK and the U.S. Although we have developed disaster recovery and similar business contingency plans, actual or threatened natural disasters (for example, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, fires, tornados, tsunamis, typhoons and volcanic eruptions) or similar events in these locations may have a material impact on our business continuity, reputation and profitability.. e. Ability to recruit, develop and retain qualified shipboard personnel who live on ships away from home for extended periods of time. Our success is dependent upon our personnel and our ability to recruit and train high quality employees. We hire a significant number of new crew each year and, thus, our ability to adequately recruit, develop and retain our crew is critical to our cruise business. We must continue to recruit, develop, retain and motivate our shipboard personnel to enable us to maintain our current business and support our projected growth.. We believe that incidents involving cruise ships and the related adverse media publicity, adverse economic conditions that negatively affect our profitability and overcapacity in the vacation region could also impact our ability to recruit qualified personnel.. f. Increases in fuel prices and availability of fuel supply. Economic, market and political conditions around the world, such as fuel demand, regulatory requirements, supply disruptions and related infrastructure needs, make it difficult to predict the future price and availability of fuel. Future increases in the global price of fuel would increase the cost of our cruise ship operations as well as some of our other expenses, such as crew travel, freight and commodity prices. Furthermore, volatility in fuel prices could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and liquidity. We may be unable to implement additional fuel conservation initiatives, increase ticket prices or collect fuel supplements to help fully or partially offset these fuel price increases.. Various agencies and regulatory authorities have issued rules related to emissions. The cost and availability of appropriate fuel supplies or the effectiveness of our emissions mitigation equipment may negatively impact our operations, increasing costs and reducing profitability.. 34. Certain of our newbuilds that entered into service in 2016 and thereafter are designed to use LNG as a fuel source. At this time, there is not a liquid spot market for marine LNG and purchasing LNG is usually made through long-term contracts. Further, the marine LNG distribution infrastructure is in the early stages of development and there are a limited number of suppliers. In addition, we may be subject to new regulations covering the use and storage of LNG onboard our ships and we may experience difficulties in operating and maintaining new LNG-based engine technology. The pricing, availability and regulations for LNG could adversely affect our profitability by changing itineraries and increasing costs.. g. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We earn revenues, pay expenses, purchase and own assets and incur liabilities in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, resulting in translational and transactional currency risks (\"currency risk\").. We report currency transactions in the functional currencies of our reporting units. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we translate revenues and expenses into U.S dollars at exchange rates in effect during the reporting period, and translate assets and liabilities into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect at the end of each reporting period. This subjects us to \"foreign currency translational\" risk. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the functional currencies of our foreign operations will adversely affect our U.S. dollar financial results.. Substantially all of our operations also have non-functional currency risk related to their international net revenue yields. In addition, a portion of our operating expenses is denominated in non-functional currencies. Accordingly, we have \"foreign currency transactional\" risk related to changes in the exchange rates for our revenues and expenses that are in a currency other than the entity's functional currency. The strengthening of the functional currency against other currencies will reduce the functional currency revenues and expenses and will generally adversely affect our profitability.. h. Overcapacity and competition in the cruise ship and land-based vacation industry. Since the cruise industry relies on long-lived ships, we face the risk that our industry's capacity will grow beyond its demand. The wider vacation industry may also face increases in land-based vacation capacity, which may impact us as well. We typically aim to fill our new capacity at favorable revenue yields despite the new competing cruise and land-based capacity growth. Also, to the extent that we or our competitors deploy ships to a particular itinerary and the resulting capacity in that region exceeds the demand, we may lower pricing and our profitability may be lower than initially anticipated. Furthermore, the used cruise ship market is small and as new cruise ships enter the industry, older ships become less competitive. Accordingly, if we need to dispose of a ship, we cannot be assured of finding a viable buyer to purchase it at a price that meets our expectations, which could result in ship impairment charges and losses on ship disposals. Should net revenue yields be negatively impacted, our profitability and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, increased cruise capacity could impact our ability to recruit, develop and retain qualified crew, including officers, at competitive rates and, therefore, increase our shipboard employee costs.. We face competition from other cruise brands on the basis of cruise pricing, travel agent preference and the types and sizes of ships and cabins, services and destinations being offered by them to cruise guests. In addition, new cruise competitors with existing brand appeal may choose to enter the cruise industry or there may be other new cruise competitors that may choose to enter the established or emerging regions. We try to differentiate ourselves from our cruise competitors by offering a wide variety of brands, itineraries, products and services to our guests, but the acceptance of each offering is not certain and consumers' preferences are always subject to change. In addition, we operate in the wider vacation industry and we risk losing business, not only to other cruise lines, but also to land-based vacation operators. In the event that we do not compete effectively with other cruise companies and other vacation alternatives, our profitability and financial condition could be adversely affected.. i. Continuing financial viability of our travel agent distribution system, air service providers and other key vendors in our supply chain, as well as reductions in the availability of, and increases in the prices for, the services and products provided by these vendors. Our guests primarily book their cruises through independent travel agents and tour operators. These parties generally sell and market our cruises on a nonexclusive basis. Our competitors may offer higher commissions and incentives and thus adversely impact our business. Significant disruptions, contractions or consolidations to our travel agents distribution system, such as those caused by a reduction in travel and related commission income as a result of an economic slowdown could have an adverse effect on our net revenue yields and profitability. In addition, we currently rely on our travel agents and tour operators to source and arrange for our guests, if such agents and operators cannot successfully source guests, it will adversely impact our cash flows and operations.. 35. Many of our guests and substantially all our crew depend on scheduled or chartered commercial airline services to transport them to or from the airports near the ports where our cruises embark and disembark. Changes or disruptions in commercial or chartered airline services as a result of strikes, labor unrest, financial instability or viability, adverse weather conditions, airport delays, consolidation of carriers, or other events or the lack of availability due to schedule changes or a high level of airline bookings could adversely affect our ability to deliver guests and crew to or from our cruise ships and increase our costs which would, in turn, have an adverse effect on our profitability. In addition, increases in the prices of airfares would increase the overall vacation price to our guests.. Economic downturns may impact the financial viability of other key vendors in our supply chain and the interruption in the services or goods we purchase from them could adversely impact our operations and profitability.. j. Inability to implement our shipbuilding programs and ship repairs, maintenance and refurbishments on terms that are favorable or consistent with our expectations, as well as increases to our repairs and maintenance expenses and refurbishment costs as our fleet ages. The construction, repair, maintenance and refurbishment of cruise ships are complex processes and involve risks similar to those encountered in other large and sophisticated construction, repair, maintenance and refurbishment projects. As our fleet ages, our repair and maintenance expenses will increase. In addition, other events, such as work stoppages, other labor actions, insolvencies, \"force majeure\" events or other financial difficulties experienced at the shipyards and their subcontractors and suppliers who build, repair, maintain or refurbish our ships could also delay or prevent the delivery of our ships under construction and prevent or delay the completion of the refurbishment, repair and maintenance of existing ships in our fleet. These events could adversely affect our profitability, including delays or cancellations of cruises or unscheduled dry-docks and repairs. In addition, the consolidation of the control of certain cruise shipyards or cruise shipyard voluntary capacity reductions or insolvencies could result in less shipyard availability thus reducing competition and increasing prices. Furthermore, the lack of qualified shipyard repair facilities could result in the inability to repair and maintain our ships on a timely basis, which could also result in reduced profitability.. The cost of shipbuilding orders that we may place in the future that is denominated in a different currency than our cruise brands' or the shipyards' functional currency is expected to be affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. These foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may affect our decisions to order new cruise ships. In addition, the prices of various commodities that are used in the construction of ships, such as steel, can be subject to volatile price changes and, accordingly, the cost of future newbuilds may increase, which could have an adverse impact on our profitability.. k. Geographic regions in which we try to expand our business may be slow to develop and ultimately not develop how we expect. As we continue to expand our global presence, it requires, among other things, significant levels of management resources, capital and other investments. For example, we may be required to localize our cruise products and services to conform to local cultures, standards, policies and regulations. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to replicate our successful core business models and we may not be able to recover our investments in these markets. In addition, we cannot be certain that these markets, such as China, will ultimately develop as we expect, which could also adversely impact the growth and profitability of our business.. Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results. Some of the statements, estimates or projections contained in this Form 10-K are \"forward-looking statements\" that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions with respect to us, including some statements concerning future results, outlooks, plans, goals and other events which have not yet occurred. These statements are intended to qualify for the safe harbors from liability provided by Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements other than statements of historical facts are statements that could be deemed forward-looking. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about our business and the industry in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. We have tried, whenever possible, to identify these statements by using words like \"will,\" \"may,\" \"could,\" \"should,\" \"would,\" \"believe,\" \"depends,\" \"expect,\" \"goal,\" \"anticipate,\" \"forecast,\" \"project,\" \"future,\" \"intend,\" \"plan,\" \"estimate,\" \"target,\" \"indicate\" and similar expressions of future intent or the negative of such terms.. 36. Forward-looking statements include those statements that may impact our outlook including, but not limited to, the forecasting of our:. •    Net revenue yields •    Net cruise costs, excluding fuel per available lower berth day •    Booking levels •    Estimates of ship depreciable lives and residual values •    Pricing and occupancy •    Goodwill, ship and trademark fair values •    Interest, tax and fuel expenses •    Liquidity •    Currency exchange rates •    Adjusted earnings per share. Certain of the risks we are exposed to are identified in this Item 1A. \"Risk Factors.\" This item contains important cautionary statements and a discussion of the known factors that we consider could materially affect the accuracy of our forward-looking statements and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position. It is not possible to predict or identify all such risks. There may be additional risks that we consider immaterial or which are unknown.. Forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results. Subject to any continuing obligations under applicable law or any relevant stock exchange rules, we expressly disclaim any obligation to disseminate, after the date of this Form 10-K, any updates or revisions to any such forward-looking statements to reflect any change in expectations or events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statements are based."
