[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. There are inherent risks and uncertainties associated with all businesses that could adversely affect operating performances or financial conditions. The following discussion outlines the risks and uncertainties that management believes are the most material to our business. However, these are not the only risks or uncertainties that could affect our business. Certain risks are associated specifically with our business, industry or customer base, while others have a broader effect.. The demand for certain products we produce may be cyclical.. Demand in our end-use markets can be cyclical in nature and sensitive to general economic conditions, competitive influences and fluctuations in inventory levels throughout the supply chain. As such, our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and availability of credit could fluctuate significantly from period to period.. A significant portion of our sales represents products sold to customers in the commercial aerospace and defense and energy markets. The cyclicality of those markets can adversely affect our current business and our expansion objectives.. The commercial aerospace and defense market is historically cyclical due to both external and internal market factors. These factors include general economic conditions, airline profitability, consumer demand for air travel, varying fuel and labor costs, price competition and international and domestic political conditions such as military conflict and the threat of terrorism. The length and degree of cyclical fluctuation can be influenced by any one or combination of these factors and therefore are difficult to predict with certainty. A downturn in the commercial aerospace and defense industry would adversely affect the demand for our products and/or the prices at which we are able to sell our products; our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. The energy market has also been historically cyclical, principally as a result of volatile oil prices that impact demand for our products.  Our future success requires us to, among other things, expand in key international energy markets by successfully adding to our customer base, distribution channels and product portfolio.  The volatility of oil prices and other factors that contribute to the cyclicality of the energy market will impact our ability to expand successfully in this area and may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. 5. Table of Contents. Any significant delay or inability to successfully expand our operations in a timely and cost-effective manner could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Over the last few years, we have undertaken capital projects associated with expanding our production capacity and capability.  These projects place a significant demand on management and operational resources. Our success in expanding our operations in a cost-effective manner depends upon numerous factors including the ability of management to ensure the necessary resources are in place to properly execute these projects, our ability to obtain the necessary internal and customer qualifications to produce material from the facilities and our ability to operate the facilities to maximize the potential opportunities with minimal impacts to our existing operations. If we are not able to achieve the anticipated results from our capital expansion projects, or if we incur unanticipated excess costs, our results of operations and financial position may be materially adversely affected.. Periods of reduced demand and excess supply as well as the availability of substitute lower cost materials can adversely affect our ability to price and sell our products at the profitability levels we require to be successful.. Additional worldwide capacity and reduced demand for our products could significantly impact future worldwide pricing which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, continued availability of lower cost, substitute materials may cause significant fluctuations in future results as our customers opt for a lower cost alternative.. We change prices on our products as we deem necessary. In addition to the above general competitive impact, other market conditions and various economic factors beyond our control can adversely affect the timing of our pricing actions. The effects of any pricing actions may be delayed due to long manufacturing lead times or the terms of existing contracts. There is no guarantee that the pricing actions we implement will be effective in maintaining the Company's profit margin levels.. We rely on third parties to supply certain raw materials that are critical to the manufacture of our products and we may not be able to access alternative sources of these raw materials if the suppliers are unwilling or unable to meet our demand.. Costs of certain critical raw materials, such as nickel, cobalt, chromium, manganese, molybdenum, titanium, iron and scrap containing iron and nickel have been volatile due to factors beyond our control. We are able to mitigate most of the adverse impact of rising raw material costs through raw material surcharges, indices to customers and raw material forward contracts, but changes in business conditions could adversely affect our ability to recover rapid increases in raw material costs and may adversely affect our results of operations.. In addition, the availability of these critical raw materials is subject to factors that are not in our control. In some cases, these critical raw materials are purchased from suppliers operating in countries that may be subject to unstable political and economic conditions.  At any given time, we may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of these critical raw materials on a timely basis, at prices and other terms acceptable to us, or at all.. If suppliers increase the price of critical raw materials or are unwilling or unable to meet our demand, we may not have alternative sources of supply. In addition, to the extent that we have quoted prices to customers and accepted customer orders for products prior to purchasing necessary raw materials, or have existing contracts, we may be unable to raise the price of products to cover all or part of the increased cost of the raw materials to our customers.. The manufacture of some of our products is a complex process and requires long lead times. As a result, we may experience delays or shortages in the supply of raw materials. If unable to obtain adequate and timely receipts of required raw materials, we may be unable to timely manufacture sufficient quantities of products. This could cause us to lose sales, incur additional costs, delay new product introductions or suffer harm to our reputation.. 6. Table of Contents. We provide benefits to active and retired employees throughout most of our Company, most of which are not covered by insurance; and thus, our financial condition can be adversely affected if our investment returns are insufficient to meet these obligations.. We have obligations to provide substantial benefits to active and retired employees, and most of the associated costs are paid by the Company and are not covered by insurance. In addition, certain employees are covered by defined benefit pension plans, with the majority of our plans covering employees in the United States. Benefits accrued to eligible participants of our largest qualified defined benefit pension plan and certain non-qualified pension plans were frozen effective December 31, 2016.  Many domestic and international competitors do not provide defined benefit plans and/or retiree health care plans, and other international competitors operate in jurisdictions with government sponsored health care plans that may offer them a cost advantage.  A decline in the value of plan investments in the future, an increase in costs or liabilities or unfavorable changes in laws or regulations that govern pension plan funding could materially change the timing and amount of required pension funding. A requirement to accelerate or increase pension contributions in the future could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. The extensive environmental, health and safety regulatory regimes applicable to our manufacturing operations create potential exposure to significant liabilities.. The nature of our manufacturing business subjects our operations to numerous and varied federal, state, local and international laws and regulations relating to pollution, protection of public health and the environment, natural resource damages and occupational safety and health. We have used, and currently use and manufacture, substantial quantities of substances that are considered hazardous, extremely hazardous or toxic under worker safety and health laws and regulations. Although we implement controls and procedures designed to reduce continuing risk of adverse impacts and health and safety issues, we could incur substantial cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third party property damage or personal injury claims as a result of violations, non-compliance or liabilities under these regulatory regimes required at our facilities.. We have environmental remediation liabilities at some of our owned operating facilities and have been designated as a potentially responsible party (\"PRP\") with respect to certain third party Superfund or similar waste disposal sites and other third party owned sites. Additionally, we have been notified that we may be a PRP with respect to other Superfund sites as to which no proceedings have been instituted against us. From time to time, we are a party to lawsuits and other proceedings involving alleged violations of, or liabilities arising from, environmental laws.. When our liability is probable and we can reasonably estimate our costs, we record environmental liabilities in our financial statements. However, in many cases, we are not able to determine whether we are liable, or if liability is probable, in order to reasonably estimate the loss or range of loss which could result from such environmental liabilities. Estimates of our liability remain subject to additional uncertainties, including the nature and extent of site contamination, available remediation alternatives, the extent of corrective actions that may be required, and the number and financial condition of other PRPs, as well as the extent of their responsibility for the remediation. We adjust our accruals to reflect new information as appropriate. Future adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in a given period, but we cannot reliably predict the amounts of such future adjustments. Future developments, administrative actions or liabilities relating to environmental matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.. Our manufacturing processes, and the manufacturing processes of many of our suppliers and customers, are energy intensive and generate carbon dioxide and other \"Greenhouse Gases\", and pending legislation or regulation of Greenhouse Gases, if enacted or adopted in an onerous form, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Political and scientific debates related to the impacts of greenhouse gas emissions on the global climate are prevalent. Regulation or some form of legislation aimed at reducing the greenhouse gas emissions is currently being considered both in the United States and globally.  As a specialty alloy manufacturer, we will be affected, both directly and indirectly, if climate change legislation, such as use of a \"cap and trade\" and the signed Paris climate accord, is enacted and implemented. Such legislation could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. 7. Table of Contents. Product liability and product quality claims could adversely affect our operating results.. We produce ultra-high strength, high temperature and corrosion-resistant alloys designed for our customers' demanding applications particularly in our Aerospace and Defense, Energy and Medical end-use markets. Failure of the materials that are included in our customers' applications could give rise to substantial product liability claims. There can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will be adequate or continue to be available on terms acceptable to us.  We have a complex manufacturing process necessary to meet our customers' stringent product specifications. We are also required to adhere to various third party quality certifications and perform sufficient internal quality reviews to ensure compliance with established standards. If we fail to meet the customer specifications for their products, we may be subject to product quality costs and claims. These costs are generally not insured. The impacts of product liability and quality claims could have a material adverse impact on the results of our operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our business subjects us to risks of litigation claims, as a routine matter, and this risk increases the potential for a loss that might not be covered by insurance.. Litigation claims relate to the conduct of our currently and formerly owned businesses, including claims pertaining to product liability, commercial disputes, employment actions, employee benefits, compliance with domestic and federal laws, personal injury, patent infringement and tax issues. Due to the uncertainties of litigation, we can give no assurance that we will prevail on claims made against us in the lawsuits that we currently face or that additional claims will not be made against us in the future. The outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty, and some of these lawsuits, claims or proceedings may be determined adversely to us.  The resolution in any reporting period of one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for that period. We can give no assurance that any other matters brought in the future will not have a material effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. A portion of our workforce is covered by collective bargaining agreements and union attempts to organize our other employees may cause work interruptions or stoppages.. Approximately 130 production employees at our Dynamet business unit located in Washington, Pennsylvania are covered by a collective bargaining agreement.  This agreement expires in August 2019.  Approximately 490 production employees at our Latrobe business unit located in Latrobe, Pennsylvania are covered by a collective bargaining agreement.  This agreement expires in August 2020.  There can be no assurance that we will succeed in concluding collective bargaining agreements with the unions to replace those that expire which could result in work interruptions and stoppages. From time to time, the employees at our manufacturing facility in Reading, Pennsylvania, participate in election campaigns or union organizing attempts. There is no guarantee that future organization attempts will not result in union representation.. Our manufacturing processes are complex and depend upon critical, high cost equipment for which there may be only limited or no production alternatives.. It is possible that we could experience prolonged periods of reduced production due to unplanned equipment failures, and we could incur significant repair or replacement costs in the event of those failures.  It is also possible that operations could be disrupted due to other unforeseen circumstances such as power outages, explosions, fires, floods, accidents and severe weather conditions.  We must make regular, substantial capital investments and changes to our manufacturing processes to lower production costs, improve productivity, manufacture new or improved products and remain competitive. We may not be in a position to take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures if we fail to update, replace or make additions to our equipment or our manufacturing processes in a timely manner.  The cost to repair or replace much of our equipment or facilities would be significant.  We cannot be certain that we will have sufficient internally generated cash or acceptable external financing to make necessary capital expenditures in the future.. A significant portion of our manufacturing and production facilities are located in Reading and Latrobe, Pennsylvania and Athens, Alabama, which increases our exposure to significant disruption to our business as a result of unforeseeable developments in these geographic areas.. It is possible that we could experience prolonged periods of reduced production due to unforeseen catastrophic events occurring in or around our manufacturing facilities in Reading and Latrobe, Pennsylvania and Athens, Alabama. As a result, we may be unable to shift manufacturing capabilities to alternate locations, accept materials from suppliers, meet customer shipment needs or address other severe consequences that may be encountered.  Our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. 8. Table of Contents. We rely on third parties to supply energy consumed at each of our energy-intensive production facilities.. The prices for and availability of electricity, natural gas, oil and other energy resources are subject to volatile market conditions. These market conditions often are affected by political and economic factors beyond our control. Disruptions or lack of availability in the supply of energy resources could temporarily impair the ability to operate our production facilities. Further, increases in energy costs, or changes in costs relative to energy costs paid by competitors, has affected and may continue to adversely affect our profitability. To the extent that these uncertainties cause suppliers and customers to be more cost sensitive, increased energy prices may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. We consider acquisitions, joint ventures and other business combination opportunities, as well as possible business unit dispositions, as part of our overall business strategy, that involve uncertainties and potential risks that we cannot predict or anticipate fully.. From time to time, management holds discussions with management of other companies to explore such aforementioned opportunities. As a result, the relative makeup of the businesses comprising our Company is subject to change. Acquisitions, joint ventures and other business combinations involve various inherent risks. Such risks include difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired companies, diversion of management's attention from existing operations, difficulties in entering markets in which we have limited or no direct prior experience, dependence on unfamiliar supply chains, insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions, loss of key employees of the acquired companies, inaccurate assessment of undisclosed liabilities, difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings, and increases in our debt or limitation on our ability to access additional capital when needed.. Regulations related to conflict minerals could adversely impact our business.. The SEC has promulgated final rules mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act regarding disclosure of the use of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, known as conflict minerals, in products manufactured by public companies.  These rules require due diligence to determine whether such minerals originated from the Democratic Republic of Congo (the \"DRC\") or an adjoining country and whether such minerals helped finance the armed conflict in the DRC.  The Company timely filed its latest annual conflict minerals report required by the rules on May 10, 2018. There are costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements going forward, including costs to determine the origin of conflict minerals used in our products. In addition, the implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products.  Also, we may face disqualification as a supplier for customers and reputational challenges if the due diligence procedures we continue to implement do not enable us to verify the origins for all conflict minerals or to determine that such minerals are DRC conflict-free.. Our business may be impacted by external factors that we may not be able to control.. War, civil conflict, terrorism, natural disasters and public health issues including domestic or international pandemic have caused and could cause damage or disruption to domestic or international commerce by creating economic or political uncertainties. Additionally, the volatility in the financial markets could negatively impact our business. These events could result in a decrease in demand for our products, affect the availability of credit facilities to us, our customers or other members of the supply chain necessary to transact business, make it difficult or impossible to deliver orders to customers or receive materials from suppliers, affect the availability or pricing of energy sources or result in other severe consequences that may or may not be predictable. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. We believe that international sales, which are associated with various risks, will continue to account for a significant percentage of our future revenues.. Risks associated with international sales include without limitation: political and economic instability, including weak conditions in the world's economies; difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; unstable or unenforced export controls; changes in legal and regulatory requirements; policy changes affecting the markets for our products; changes in duties, quotas, tariffs and taxes; and exchange rate fluctuations (which may affect sales to international customers and the value of profits earned on international sales when converted into dollars). In addition, we will need to invest in building our capabilities and infrastructure to meet our international growth goals. Any of these factors could materially adversely affect our results for the period in which they occur.. 9. Table of Contents. We value most of our inventory using the LIFO method, which could be repealed resulting in adverse effects on our cash flows and financial condition.. The cost of our inventories is primarily determined using the Last-In, First-Out (\"LIFO\") method. Under the LIFO inventory valuation method, changes in the cost of raw materials and production activities are recognized in cost of sales in the current period even though these materials and other costs may have been incurred at significantly different values due to the length of time of our production cycle. Generally, in a period of rising prices, LIFO recognizes higher costs of goods sold, which both reduces current income and assigns a lower value to the year-end inventory.  From time to time, there have been proposals aimed at repealing the election to use the LIFO method for income tax purposes. According to these proposals, generally taxpayers that currently use the LIFO method would be required to revalue their LIFO inventory to its First-In, First-Out (\"FIFO\") value. As of June 30, 2018, if the FIFO method of inventory had been used instead of the LIFO method, our inventories would have been approximately $210 million higher. This increase in inventory would result in a one-time increase in taxable income which may be taken into account over the following several taxable years. The repeal of the LIFO method could result in a substantial tax liability which could adversely impact our cash flows and financial condition.. We depend on the retention of key personnel.. Much of our future success depends on the continued service and availability of skilled personnel, including members of our executive management team, management, metallurgists and production positions. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to perform until suitable replacements are found.. We could be adversely impacted if our information technology (\"IT\") and computer systems do not perform properly or if we fail to protect the integrity of confidential data.. Management relies extensively on IT infrastructure, including hardware, network, software, people and processes, to provide useful information to conduct our business and support assessments and conclusions about operating performance. Our inability to produce relevant and/or reliable measures of operating performance in an efficient, cost-effective and well-controlled fashion may have significant negative impacts on our future operations. In addition, any material failure, interruption of service, or compromised data security could adversely affect our operations. Security breaches in our information technology could result in theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of confidential data or intellectual property which could adversely impact our future results.. We are in the process of implementing a new enterprise resource planning system and problems with the design or implementation of this system could interfere with our business and operations.. We are engaged in a multi-year implementation of a global enterprise resource planning (ERP) system which is planned to be deployed in phases. The new ERP system will replace multiple current business systems and is being designed to improve manufacturing planning, development and processes, accurately maintain books and records, record transactions and provide important information of the operations of our business to our management.  The implementation of the new ERP system has required, and will continue to require, the investment of significant financial resources as well as a considerable allocation of personnel for the project.  While we have invested, and continue to invest, significant resources in planning and project management, implementation issues may arise during the course of implementing the ERP system, and it is possible that we may experience significant delays, increased costs and other difficulties that are not presently contemplated.  Any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design and implementation of the new ERP system could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. The carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets may not be recoverable.. Goodwill and other long-lived assets including property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets are recorded at fair value on the date of acquisition. We review these assets at least annually for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations and a variety of other factors. Any future impairment of goodwill or other long-lived assets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations."
