[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. The following risk factors should be read carefully when evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained in this report and other statements we or our representatives make from time to time. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made. The risks and uncertainties described in this report are not the only ones we face. Others, which are not currently known to us or that we believe are immaterial, also may adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition.. Risks Related to Our Business. Our business is subject to risks related to the larger automotive ecosystem, including consumer demand and other macroeconomic issues.. Decreases in consumer demand could adversely affect the market for automobile purchases and, as a result, reduce the number of consumers using our platform. Consumer purchases of new and used automobiles generally decline during recessionary periods and other periods in which disposable income is adversely affected. Purchases of new and used automobiles are typically discretionary for consumers and have been, and may continue to be, affected by negative trends in the economy, including increases in the cost of energy and gasoline, the availability and cost of credit, reductions in business and consumer confidence, stock market volatility and increased unemployment. A reduction in the number of automobiles purchased by consumers could adversely affect automobile dealers and car manufacturers and lead to a reduction in other spending by these constituents, including targeted incentive programs. Though our current customer bases, revenue sources and operations are substantially limited to the United States, our business may be negatively affected by challenges to the larger automotive ecosystem and other macroeconomic issues.. We participate in a highly competitive market, and pressure from existing and new companies may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We face significant competition from companies that provide listings, information, lead generation and car-buying services designed to reach consumers and enable dealers to reach these consumers.. Our competitors offer various products and services that compete with Cars.com. Some of these products include:. •  Internet search engines and online automotive sites such as Amazon, Facebook, Craig's list, Google, AutoTrader.com, eBay Motors, Edmunds.com, KBB.com, Autobytel.com, CarGurus.com, Carfax.com, NADAGuides.com and TrueCar.com.. •  Sites operated by automobile manufacturers such as General Motors and Ford.. •  Providers of offline, membership-based car-buying services such as the Costco Auto Program.. •  Offline automotive classified listings, such as trade periodicals and local newspapers.. We compete with many of the above-mentioned companies and other companies for a share of car dealers' overall marketing budget. To the extent that car dealers view alternative marketing and media strategies to be superior, we may not be able to maintain or grow the number of dealers in our network and such dealers may sell fewer cars to users of our platform. In addition, new competitors may enter the online automotive retail industry with competing products and services.. Our competitors could significantly impede our ability to expand our network of dealers and to reach consumers. Our competitors may also develop and market new technologies that render our existing or future products and services less competitive, unmarketable or obsolete. In addition, if competitors develop products or services with similar or superior functionality to our solutions, we may need to decrease prices for our solutions to remain competitive. If we are unable to maintain our current pricing structure due to competitive pressures, our revenue may be reduced and our operating results may be negatively affected.. Some of our larger competitors may be better able to respond more quickly with new technologies and to undertake more extensive marketing or promotional campaigns. In addition, to the extent that any of our competitors have existing relationships with dealers or. 8. automobile manufacturers for marketing or data analytics solutions, those dealers and automobile manufacturers may be unwilling to partner or continue to partner with us.. In addition, if any of our competitors were to merge or partner with another of our competitors, the change in the competitive landscape could materially and adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. Our competitors may also establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with our current or future third-party data providers, technology partners or other parties with whom we have relationships, thereby limiting our ability to develop, improve and promote our solutions. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors, and competitive pressures may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If we fail to maintain or increase our base of subscribing dealers that purchase listings on our sites or to increase our revenue from subscribing dealers, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected.. In each of 2017, 2016 and 2015, approximately 80% of our revenue was generated by the sale of paid listings to dealers on the Cars.com sites. Our dealer listing revenue model employs a base package subscription fee with the opportunity for providers to purchase product enhancements or short-term premium services. The higher-priced product enhancements and short-term premium services offer more prominent placements and more features than the listings included in the standard packages, such as geographically targeted advertising to promote special events or sales. Our ability to increase revenue from currently subscribing dealers depends, in part, on the ability of our sales force to demonstrate the value and benefits of the additional features of our product enhancements and short-term premium services to our subscribing dealers and to persuade them to purchase the higher-priced enhancements and services. Subscribing dealers do not have long-term obligations to purchase or renew listing subscriptions on the Cars.com sites or mobile applications or product enhancements and premium services. Consequently, if subscribing dealers do not renew their subscriptions, continue to list their vehicles or continue to purchase product enhancements and premium services, or if we experience significant attrition of subscribing dealers or are unable to attract new dealers in numbers greater than the number of subscribing dealers that we lose, our revenue will decrease and our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected.. We compete with other consumer automotive websites and mobile applications and other digital content providers for share of automotive-related digital advertising spending and may be unable to maintain or grow our base of third-party advertising customers or increase our revenue from existing third-party advertisers.. In addition to revenue from dealer listing subscriptions, we generate significant revenue from third-party national advertising. In 2017, 2016 and 2015, 18%, 18% and 17%, respectively, of our revenue was generated by the sale of national advertising and the sale of leads to OEMs. Although the shift in advertising spending away from traditional advertising methods to digital advertising methods provides greater opportunity for us, competition to capture share of the total digital automotive advertising spend has and may continue to increase due to the attractive projected growth of digital automotive advertising spend and low barriers to entry in the online automotive classifieds and related digital automotive advertising markets.. We may face significant challenges in convincing our advertising customers, including brand advertisers and OEMs, to expand their advertising on our sites and mobile applications in the face of growing competition, which could hurt our ability to grow our third-party advertising revenue. For example, there are a limited number of OEMs, most of which already advertise on our sites. To grow our advertising revenue from these OEMs, we may need to increase the portion of OEMs' digital advertising budgets that we currently receive. If the rate of renewal for our advertising customers decreases, we experience a significant decrease in advertising spending, the number of advertising impressions on our sites or mobile applications declines for any reason, we are unable to attract new advertisers in numbers greater than the number of advertisers we lose or we are not able to raise rates or to increase our share of advertising revenue from dealers and other advertisers, our revenue will decrease and our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected.. We rely on third-party service providers for many aspects of our business, including automobile pricing and other data, and any failure to maintain these relationships could harm our business.. Our business relies on the collection, use and analysis of third-party data for the benefit of our car buying consumers, dealer customers and advertisers. We use information about automobiles, ownership history and pricing from third parties, including OEMs, dealers and others, in various aspects of our business. In addition, our ability to grow our user base depends, in part, on the availability and quality of data relating to potential users of our platform. If the third parties on which we depend are unable to provide data, experience difficulty meeting our requirements or standards, or revoke or fail to renew our licenses for such data, we could have difficulty operating key aspects of our business. In addition, if these third-party service providers were to cease operations, temporarily or permanently, face financial distress or other business disruption or increase their fees, or if our relationship with these providers were to deteriorate, we could suffer increased costs and delays in our ability to provide our products to consumers and dealer customers until an equivalent provider could be found or until we develop replacement technology or operations. We attempt to mitigate this risk. 9. by signing long-term contracts with data vendors, but such contracts do not guarantee that we will continue to receive the high-quality data on which our business relies.. We rely on in-house content creation and development to drive traffic to the Cars.com sites and mobile applications.. We rely on our in-house editorial content team to continually develop content of use and interest to consumers in order to drive traffic to the Cars.com sites and mobile applications. Our editorial content team tests, reviews and photographs more than 100 different car makes and models every year to facilitate our creation of independent and unbiased coverage of the automotive landscape. Our internally developed content focuses primarily on consumer purchasing and ownership advice and analysis of consumer automotive purchasing and ownership trends. If we are unable to continue to develop such content, we may be required to rely on third-party content providers, which would lead to less distinctive content on our sites and increased operating costs. Additionally, if we are unable to continue providing the same level of high-quality, unique consumer content as we do currently, consumer traffic across the Cars.com sites and mobile applications could decrease. Such a decrease would lead to dealers receiving fewer indications of consumer interest through leads generated by the Cars.com sites and mobile applications, and recognizing less value for their digital advertising spend. As a result, dealers may not continue to list their vehicles on the Cars.com sites and mobile applications. Similarly, decreased traffic due to a failure to continue developing unique content in-house may cause national advertisers such as OEMs to shift their digital advertising spend to sites with higher traffic. Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect Cars.com's business, results of operations and financial condition.. We rely in part on Internet search engines and \"mobile application download stores\" to drive traffic to the Cars.com sites and mobile applications. If the Cars.com sites and mobile applications fail to appear prominently in these search results, traffic to the Cars.com sites and mobile applications would decline and our business would be materially and adversely affected.. We depend, in part, on Internet search engines such as Google, Bing and Yahoo! to drive traffic to the Cars.com sites. For example, when a user types the make and model of a specific automobile or a generic phrase, such as \"automobile prices,\" into an Internet search engine, we rely on a high organic search ranking of the Cars.com sites in these search results to drive user traffic. However, our ability to maintain these high, nonpaid search result rankings is not fully within our control. For example, our competitors' SEO efforts may result in their websites receiving a higher search result page ranking than that of us, or Internet search engines could revise their methodologies in a way that would adversely affect our search result rankings. In addition, Internet search engines could provide automobile dealer and pricing information directly in search results or choose to align with our competitors or develop competing services. The Cars.com sites have experienced fluctuations in search result rankings in the past, and it is anticipated that similar fluctuations will occur in the future.. Additionally, we depend in part on mobile application download stores such as the Apple App Store and Google Play to direct traffic towards the Cars.com's mobile applications. When a mobile device user searches in a mobile application download store for \"car buying app\" or a similar phrase, we rely on both a high search ranking and consumer brand awareness to drive consumers to select and download the Cars.com mobile applications instead of those of our competitors. However, our ability to maintain high, nonpaid search result rankings in mobile application download stores is not fully within our control. Our competitors' mobile application download store search optimization efforts may result in their mobile applications receiving a higher result ranking than that of Cars.com, or mobile application download stores could revise their methodologies in a way that would adversely affect our search result rankings.. If Internet search engines or mobile application download stores modify their search algorithms in ways that negatively impact traffic to the Cars.com sites or Cars.com mobile apps, or if the search engine or mobile application download store optimization efforts of our competitors are more successful than our own efforts, overall growth in our user base could slow or the user base could decline.. The value of our assets or operations may be diminished if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately.. Our information technology systems are critically important to operating our business efficiently and effectively. Our brand, reputation and ability to attract consumers and advertisers depend on the reliability of our technology platforms and the ability to continuously deliver content. Interruptions in our information technology systems, whether due to system failures, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, capacity constraints, power outages, local or widespread internet outages, telecommunications breakdowns or other uncontrollable events, could affect the security or availability of products on our sites or our mobile applications or prevent or inhibit the ability of consumers to access our products. The failure of our information technology systems to perform as anticipated could disrupt our business and result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, decreased use of our sites or mobile applications and loss of sales and customers.. We rely on technology systems' availability and ability to prevent unauthorized access. If our security and resiliency measures fail to prevent all incidents, it could result in damage to our reputation, incur costs and create liabilities.. Like other technology-based businesses, our solutions may be subject to attacks from computer viruses, break-ins, phishing attacks, unauthorized use, attempts to overload services with denial-of-service and other attacks. Any attack or disruption could negatively. 10. impact our ability to attract new consumers, dealers or advertisers and could deter current consumers, dealers or advertisers from using our solutions, or subject us to lawsuits, regulatory fines or other action or liability.. •  Availability: We rely on technology systems' availability to deliver services to consumers, dealers, employees, partners and affiliates. If we experience a disruption that results in performance or availability degradation, up to and including the complete shutdown of our sites or mobile applications, revenue could be impacted, consumers. Dealers or advertisers may lose trust and confidence in us, decrease their use of our solutions or stop using our solutions entirely.. •  Data Protection (Consumers/Dealers): We collect, process, store, share, disclose and use limited personal information and other data provided by consumers and dealers, sometimes including names, addresses and in connection with Lot Insights, certain location information used in geo-fencing. We do not collect or store consumer financial data, including credit and debit card information.. Failure to protect customer data or to provide customers with appropriate notice of our privacy practices, could subject us to liabilities imposed by U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies or courts. In addition, we could be subject to evolving laws and regulatory standards that impose data use obligations, data breach notification requirements, specific data security obligations, restrictions on solicitation or other consumer privacy-related requirements.. •  Data Protection (Internal): We develop, create and acquire internal information that may be considered sensitive or valuable intellectual property in the normal operations of human resources, finance, legal, marketing, software development, product management, mergers & acquisitions and other business functions. Failure to protect sensitive internal information or intellectual property may result in loss of competitive advantage, reputation damage, direct and indirect costs and other liabilities. Failure to protect material financial information including financial performance and merger and acquisition data could also subject us to liabilities imposed by U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies or courts.. We rely on, among other security measures, firewalls, anti-malware, intrusion prevention systems, distributed denial of service mitigation services, web content filtering, encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties. We also depend on the security of our networks and partially on the security of our third-party service providers.. Although we believe that our resiliency planning and security controls are appropriate to our exposures to system outages, service interruptions, security incidents and breaches, there is no guarantee that these plans and controls will prevent all such incidents. Techniques used to disable or degrade service or gain unauthorized access to systems or data change frequently and may not be recognized until damage is detected. We maintain cyber risk insurance, but this insurance may not be sufficient to cover all losses from any future disruption, security incident or breach.. Our business depends on a strong Cars.com brand, and any failure to maintain, protect and enhance our brand could hurt our ability to retain or expand our base of consumers, customers and advertisers, and our ability to increase the frequency with which consumers, dealers and advertisers use our services.. We believe that maintaining and increasing the strong recognition of the Cars.com brand is critical to the company's future success. We are known for attracting a large base of in-market car shoppers by offering credible and easy-to-understand information from consumers and experts and an unrivaled set of new and used vehicle listings for consumers to view. In addition, OEMs, dealers and other advertisers rely on our innovative digital marketing services to drive results in their businesses. To grow our business, we must maintain, protect and enhance our brand. Otherwise, we may be unable to expand our base of consumers, customers and advertisers, or to increase the frequency with which such constituents use or purchase our services. Expanding the business will depend, in part, on our ability to maintain the trust that consumers, customer and advertisers place in our services and the quality and integrity of the listings and other content found on the Cars.com sites and mobile applications. In addition, any negative publicity about us, including about our solutions, technologies, sales practices, personnel or customer service, could diminish confidence in and the use of our services. If we experience persistent negative publicity, or if consumers otherwise perceive that content on the Cars.com sites or mobile applications is not reliable, our reputation, the value of our brands and traffic to our sites and mobile applications could decline.. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to successfully develop and launch new products or grow our complementary product offerings.. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to continue to enhance and improve the value of our products and services through the development of new products and services and new value-add features for existing products and services, as well as our ability to leverage our brand recognition and existing operations to enter into new complementary markets successfully. Historically, we have been successful in increasing revenue through the launch of new products, services and value-add features and in entering complementary markets through the launch of new products and services. However, such historical success does not assure that we will continue to be successful in developing or introducing new products, services and value-add features, or that these new products, services and features will achieve market acceptance, enhance the value of our brand or permit us to enter new, complementary markets successfully. Further, the development of new products and services in response to evolving customer demands and. 11. competitive pressures requires significant time and resources and there can be no assurance that our development efforts will be effective in permitting us to maintain or grow our market share or to enter new markets in a cost-effective manner, or at all.. Our business is dependent on keeping pace with advances in technology. If we are unable to keep pace with advances in technology, consumers may stop using our services and our revenues will decrease.. The Internet and electronic commerce markets are characterized by rapid technological change, changes in user and customer requirements, frequent new service and product introductions embodying new technologies, including mobile Internet applications, and the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render our existing sites, mobile applications and technology obsolete. These market characteristics are intensified by the emerging nature of the market and the fact that many companies are expected to introduce new Internet products and services in the near future. If we are unable to adapt to changing technologies, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected.. If we do not adapt to automated buying strategies quickly, our display advertising revenue could be adversely affected.. The majority of the display advertising purchased by our national, regional and near endemic advertisers (i.e. insurance advertisers, finance advertisers) is still done manually, via insertion orders. Recently however, advertisers of all kinds have been shifting from buying media directly with premium publishers like us to buying their target audiences via the ad exchanges across the broader Internet. While we have grown our programmatic revenue and are developing new, programmatic ad products and are redesigning our ad delivery technology stack, we may not adapt fast enough and may lose display advertising revenue as a result. Due to the concentrated number of national advertisers, our National Advertising business can be materially impacted by shifts in media strategy, marketing strategies, agency changes, and financial results of our clients. These changes may occur independent of the products and value we are providing to those advertisers. In addition, the increasing use of ad blockers may reduce the quantity or types of display ads and cookies collected to serve ads.. If our mobile applications do not continue to meet consumer demands or we are unable to successfully monetize our mobile advertising solutions, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected.. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to keep pace with consumer technology trends and to ensure we grow our share of the mobile application market so that total advertising impressions across our sites and mobile applications continue to increase. Among other things, we may not be able to successfully introduce new products and services on our mobile application platforms, consumers and dealers may believe that the mobile applications and product features of our competitors are superior, and our mobile applications could become incompatible with future operating systems for mobile devices or new mobile device technology. Additionally, in the event that consumer trends lead to market demand for separate digital advertising pricing models as between our sites and mobile applications, the monetization of mobile advertising could present challenges to our business due to, among other things, lower rates, decreased consumer attention and display advertising design constraints on mobile applications. If use of our mobile applications stagnates or declines, we are not able to successfully monetize mobile application advertising or we cannot adapt our products and services to another form of data viewing, whether on new mobile devices or otherwise, in a timely and cost-effective manner or at all, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, our growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected.. Dealer closures or consolidation among dealers or OEMs could reduce demand for, and the pricing of, our marketing solutions and advertising on our sites and mobile applications, thereby leading to decreased earnings.. When dealers consolidate, the services they previously purchased separately are often purchased by the combined entity in a lesser quantity than before, leading to volume compression and loss of revenue across the automotive marketplace sector. In the past, dealers have been more likely to close or consolidate when general economic conditions and/or conditions in the automotive industry are poor. Despite our market position, consolidation or closures of automobile dealers could reduce the aggregate demand for our services in the future and limit the amounts we earn for our solutions. In addition, advertising purchased by OEMs accounts for a meaningful portion of our revenues. There are a limited number of OEMs, and financial difficulties or consolidation among OEMs could similarly lead to volume compression and loss of revenue.. If growth in the online and mobile automotive advertising market stagnates or declines, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. We believe that future growth in the online and mobile automotive advertising market will be driven, in part, by dealers and brand advertisers increasingly shifting their advertising spending away from traditional media such as newspapers, radio and television, and toward online and mobile advertising. To the extent that overall automotive related advertising does not continue to shift online or to mobile applications, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. 12. Our ability to generate wholesale advertising revenues depends, in part, on the performance of third parties who sell our solutions pursuant to affiliation agreements.. In connection with TEGNA's October 2014 acquisition of the 73% of Classified Ventures, LLC that it did not already own, we entered into new affiliation agreements with a group of media organizations that formerly owned Classified Ventures, LLC. In addition, in connection with TEGNA's June 2015 spin-off of its publishing business as a standalone public company, now operating under the name Gannett Co., Inc., we entered into a new affiliation agreement with Gannett Co., Inc. and its newspaper subsidiaries. Pursuant to these affiliation agreements, all of which expire in either 2019 or 2020, we sell advertising packages and dealer solutions at wholesale rates to these counterparties, who have the exclusive right to market our products in their relevant territories. We do not have control over these counterparties, and any deterioration of the business prospects of or underperformance by these counterparties may reduce the revenues that we earn through wholesale channels. Though the affiliation agreements provide us with certain rights to terminate an exclusivity arrangement in a specific market upon a counterparty's failure to meet minimum performance standards, these rights are only available after prolonged cure periods. While we have terminated certain of these affiliate agreements ahead of schedule, underperforming counterparties may limit our ability to generate revenue in the covered territories for extended periods of time, or, if such underperformance is not sufficient to permit termination of the applicable affiliation agreement, until such agreement's expiration in 2019 or 2020.. Uncertainty exists in the application of various laws and regulations to our business, including tax laws such as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. New laws or regulations applicable to our business, or the expansion or interpretation of existing laws and regulations to apply to our business, could subject us to licensing requirements, claims, judgments and remedies, including sales and use taxes, other monetary liabilities and limitations on our business practices, and could increase administrative costs.. We operate in a regulatory climate in which there is uncertainty as to the applicability of various laws and regulations to our business. Our business could be significantly affected by different interpretations or applications of existing laws or regulations, future laws or regulations or actions or rulings by judicial or regulatory authorities. Our operations may be subjected to adoption, expansion or interpretation of various laws and regulations, and compliance with these laws and regulations may require us to obtain licenses at an undeterminable and possibly significant initial and annual expense. Similarly, state tax authorities could take aggressive positions as to whether certain of our products are subject to sales and use taxes, leading to increased tax expense. These additional expenditures may materially and adversely affect our future results of operations, whether directly through increasing future overhead or indirectly by forcing us to pass on these additional costs to our customers, making our solutions less competitive. There can be no assurances that future laws or regulations or interpretations or expansions of existing laws or regulations will not impose requirements on Internet commerce that could substantially impair the growth of e-commerce and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The adoption of additional laws or regulations may decrease the popularity or impede the expansion of e-commerce and Internet marketing, restrict our present business practices, require us to implement costly compliance procedures or expose us and/or our customers to potential liability.. We may be considered to \"operate\" or \"do business\" in states where our customers conduct their businesses, resulting in possible regulatory action. If any state licensing laws were determined to be applicable to us, and if we are required to be licensed and are unable to do so, or are otherwise unable to comply with laws or regulations, we could be subject to fines or other penalties or be compelled to discontinue operations in those states. If any state's regulatory requirements impose state-specific requirements on us or include us within an industry-specific regulatory scheme, we may be required to modify our marketing programs in that state in a manner that may undermine such program's attractiveness to consumers, customers or advertisers. Alternatively, if we determine that the licensing and related requirements are overly burdensome, we may elect to terminate operations in that state.. All states comprehensively regulate vehicle sales and lease transactions, including strict licensure requirements for dealers (and, in some states, brokers) and vehicle advertising. We believe that most of these laws and regulations specifically apply only to traditional vehicle purchase and lease transactions, not Internet-based lead referral programs like ours. If we determine that the licensing or other regulatory requirements in a given state are applicable to us or to a particular marketing services program, we may elect to obtain the required licenses and comply with applicable regulatory requirements. However, if licensing or other regulatory requirements are overly burdensome, we may elect to terminate operations or particular marketing services programs in that state or elect to not introduce particular marketing services programs in that state. As we introduce new services, we may need to incur additional costs associated with additional licensing regulations and regulatory requirements.. Strategic acquisitions, investments and partnerships could pose various risks, increase our leverage, dilute existing stockholders and significantly impact our ability to expand our overall profitability.. Acquisitions involve inherent risks, such as potentially increasing leverage and debt service requirements and combining company cultures and facilities, which could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and/or cash flow and could strain our human resources. We may be unable to successfully implement effective cost controls or achieve expected synergies as a result of an acquisition. Acquisitions may result in our assumption of unexpected liabilities and the diversion of management's attention from the operation of our core business. Acquisitions may also result in our having greater exposure to the industry risks of the businesses. 13. underlying the acquisition. Strategic investments and partnerships with other companies expose us to the risk that we may not be able to control the operations of our investee or partnership, which could decrease the amount of benefits we realize from a particular relationship. We are also exposed to the risk that our partners in strategic investments and infrastructure may encounter financial difficulties that could lead to disruption of investee or partnership activities, or impairment of assets acquired, which could adversely affect future reported results of operations and stockholders' equity. Acquisitions may subject us to new or different regulations or tax consequences which could have an adverse effect on our operations.. In addition, we may be unable to obtain the financing necessary to complete acquisitions on attractive terms or at all. If we raise additional funds through future issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Future equity financings would also decrease our earnings per share and the benefits derived from such new ventures or acquisitions might not outweigh or exceed their dilutive effect. Any additional debt financing we secure could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital or to pursue business opportunities.. The value of our existing intangible assets may become impaired, depending upon future operating results.. Our goodwill and other intangible assets were approximately $2.3 billion as of December 31, 2017, representing approximately 92% of our total assets. We periodically evaluate our goodwill and other intangible assets to determine whether all or a portion of their carrying values may no longer be recoverable, in which case a charge to earnings may be necessary. Any future evaluations requiring an asset impairment charge for goodwill or other intangible assets would adversely affect future reported results of operations and stockholders' equity, although such charges would not affect our cash flow.. Adverse results from litigation or governmental investigations could impact our business practices and operating results.. We face potential liability and expense for legal claims relating to the information that we publish on our sites and mobile applications, including claims for defamation, libel, negligence and copyright or trademark infringement, among others. We may be subject to claims based on our advertising of our business. Although we have not historically been the subject of any such claims that were material, any such claims that we face in the future could divert management time and attention away from our business and result in significant costs to investigate and defend, regardless of the merits of the claims. In some instances, we may elect or be compelled to remove content or may be forced to pay substantial damages if we are unsuccessful in our efforts to defend against these claims. If we elect or is compelled to remove valuable content from our sites or mobile applications, our platforms may become less useful to consumers and our traffic may decline.. Misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property and proprietary rights, enforcement actions to protect our intellectual property and claims from third parties relating to intellectual property could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Litigation regarding intellectual property rights is common in the Internet and technology industries. We expect that Internet technologies and software products and services may be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Our ability to compete depends upon our proprietary systems and technology. While we rely on intellectual property laws, confidentiality agreements and technical measures to protect our proprietary rights, we believe that the technical and creative skills of our personnel, continued development of our proprietary systems and technology, brand name recognition and reliable website maintenance are essential in establishing and maintaining a leadership position and strengthening our brands. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is difficult and may be expensive. We can provide no assurance that the steps we take will prevent misappropriation of technology or that the agreements entered into for that purpose will be enforceable. Effective trademark, service mark, patent, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available when our products and services are made available online. In addition, if litigation becomes necessary to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity, such litigation, even if successful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. We also cannot provide any assurance that our products and services do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties. Claims of infringement, even if unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. If unsuccessful, we may be subject to preliminary and permanent injunctive relief and monetary damages, which may be trebled in the case of willful infringements.. If we expand into new geographic markets, we may be prevented from using our brands in such markets.. If we expand our business into foreign geographic markets, we may not have the ability to adopt trademarks or domain names that are identical or similar to the trademarks and domain names that we use in the United States. Currently, our trademark property rights are limited to the United States. We may face opposition from third parties over the use of our trademarks and applications to register key trademarks in foreign jurisdictions in which we may expand our presence. Third parties may have already adopted identical or similar trademarks to the ones that we use for our services. If we are unsuccessful in defending against these oppositions, our trademark applications may be denied. We could be forced to pay significant settlement costs or cease the use of our trademarks and associated. 14. elements of our brands in those or other jurisdictions. Consequently, international expansion may require us to adopt and promote new trademarks, which may be expensive and place us at a competitive disadvantage.. Our ability to operate effectively could be impaired if we fail to attract and retain our key employees.. Our success depends, in part, upon the continuing contributions of key employees and our continuing ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain highly qualified and skilled personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key employees or the failure to attract or replace qualified personnel may have a material and adverse effect on our business.. Seasonality may cause fluctuations in our revenue and operating results.. Our revenue trends are a reflection of growth in our dealer base throughout the year as new customers purchase subscription advertising packages and existing customers purchase additional product enhancements. Rate increases for retail customers occur throughout the year, whereas in the wholesale channel, rates generally only change annually, on the first day of the calendar year. Our display advertising business, targeted to OEMs, experiences some seasonality as a result of consumers' car buying patterns and the introduction of new vehicle models from OEMs. Our revenues and operating results have historically been lowest in the first quarter of the calendar year, and we expect this trend to continue. In addition to these seasonal effects, our revenues and operations may be affected by macroeconomic conditions in the automotive sector.. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of actions of activist stockholders, and such activism could impact the trading value of our common stock.. Stockholders may from time to time attempt to effect changes, engage in proxy solicitations or advance stockholder proposals. Certain activist stockholders have made, or have indicated they may make, strategic proposals related to our business, strategy, management or operations, and have requested, or have indicated they may request, changes to the composition of our board of directors. We cannot predict, and no assurances can be given, as to the outcome or timing of any matters relating to the foregoing. In the event of a proxy contest, our business could be adversely affected because: responding to a proxy contest can be costly, time-consuming and disruptive, and can divert the attention of our management and employees; if individuals are elected to our board of directors with a specific agenda, it may adversely affect our ability to effectively implement our strategic plan and create additional value for our stockholders; perceived uncertainties as to our future direction, including uncertainties related to the composition of our board of directors, may lead to the perception of instability or a change in the direction of our business, which may be exploited by our competitors, cause concern to current or potential customers, result in the loss of potential business opportunities, make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and/or affect our relationships with vendors, customers and other third parties; and a proxy contest could cause significant fluctuations in the price of our common stock based on temporary or speculative market perceptions or other factors that do not necessarily reflect the underlying fundamentals and prospects of our business.. Risks Related to the Separation and Distribution. We have a limited history of operating as an independent company, and our historical and pro forma financial information is not necessarily representative of the results that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results.. Some of the historical information we have included in this report refers to our business as operated by and integrated with TEGNA. Accordingly, the historical financial information included in this report does not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company during the periods presented, or those that we will achieve in the future, primarily as a result of the factors described below:. •  Prior to the Separation (as defined herein), and since TEGNA's acquisition of Cars.com in October 2014, we have primarily operated as a stand-alone entity within TEGNA's broader corporate organization. Our historical financial statements include allocations of certain TEGNA corporate expenses that were historically provided to us by TEGNA. Such expenses primarily include insurance, severance costs and other general corporate overhead expenses, and allocations were based on either the actual costs incurred, or our headcount relative to TEGNA's consolidated headcount. The historical allocated corporate costs were approximately $2.5 million, $2.2 million and $1.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The presentation in the historical and pro forma financial statements may not be indicative of the actual level of expense that would have been incurred had we operated as an independent, publicly-traded company, and accordingly, the financial statements may not necessarily reflect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows had we operated as a publicly-traded company during the periods presented.. •  Generally, our working capital requirements and capital for our general corporate purposes, including acquisitions and capital expenditures, have in the past been satisfied as part of TEGNA's corporate-wide cash management policies.. •  After the completion of the distribution, the cost of capital for our business may be higher than TEGNA's cost of capital prior to the distribution.. 15. •  Our historical financial information does not reflect the debt that we incurred in connection with the Separation.. •  As a result of the distribution, we are a stand-alone public company that is required to prepare our financial statements according to the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC. We are also subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended (the \"Sarbanes-Oxley Act\"), the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 and the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the \"Exchange Act\"), in each case, as applied to an emerging growth company. Complying with these laws, rules and regulations could result in significant costs compared to our historical financial results and require us to divert substantial resources, including management time, from other activities.. There may be other significant differences in our cost structure, management, financing and business operations as a result of operating as a separate company from TEGNA.. There could be significant liability if the distribution is determined to be a taxable transaction.. In connection with the distribution, TEGNA and we received an opinion from outside tax counsel to the effect that the requirements for tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, will be satisfied. The opinion relies on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from TEGNA and us regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings were incorrect or not satisfied, we and our stockholders may not be able to rely on the opinion of tax counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities.. Notwithstanding the opinion of tax counsel, the IRS could determine on audit that the Separation is a taxable transaction if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion, or for other reasons, including as a result of certain significant changes in the share ownership of TEGNA or our company after the Separation. If the Separation is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, TEGNA and its stockholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities, and we could incur significant liabilities.. We may be unable to engage in certain corporate transactions after the separation because such transactions could jeopardize the intended tax-free status of the distribution.. Under the tax matters agreement that we entered into with TEGNA, we are restricted from taking any action that prevents the distribution and related transactions from being tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Under the tax matters agreement, for the two-year period following the distribution, we are prohibited, except in certain circumstances, from:. •  entering into any transaction resulting in the acquisition of all or a portion of our stock or assets, whether by merger or otherwise;. •  merging, consolidating or liquidating;. •  issuing equity securities beyond certain thresholds;. •  repurchasing our capital stock beyond certain thresholds; and. •  ceasing to actively conduct our business.. These restrictions may limit our ability to pursue certain strategic transactions or other transactions that we may believe to be in the best interests of our stockholders or that might increase the value of our business. In addition, under the tax matters agreement, we are required to indemnify TEGNA against any such tax liabilities as a result of the acquisition of our stock or assets, even if we did not participate in or otherwise facilitate the acquisition.. We may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of the Separation, and the Separation may materially and adversely affect our business.. We may be unable to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits expected to result from the Separation, or such benefits may be delayed or not occur at all. The Separation was expected to provide the following benefits, among others:. •  a distinct investment identity allowing investors to evaluate the merits, strategy, performance and future prospects of our business separately from TEGNA;. •  improved management \"fit and focus\";. •  ability to pursue value-enhancing acquisitions and other growth opportunities;. 16. •  more efficient allocation of capital; and. •  facilitating incentive compensation arrangements for employees that are more directly tied to the performance of our business, and enhancing employee hiring and retention by, among other things, improving the alignment of management and employee incentives with performance and growth objectives, while at the same time creating an independent equity structure that will facilitate our ability to affect future acquisitions utilizing our common stock.. We may not achieve these or other anticipated benefits for a variety of reasons, including, among others: (a) following the separation, we may be more susceptible to market fluctuations and other adverse events than if it were still a part of TEGNA; and (b) following the separation, our business will be less diversified than TEGNA's business prior to the separation.. Fulfilling our obligations incidental to being a public company, including with respect to the requirements of and related rules under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, will place significant demands on our management, administrative and operational resources, including accounting and information technology resources.. Our financial results previously were included in the consolidated results of TEGNA, and our reporting and control systems were appropriate for those of subsidiaries of a public company. Prior to the distribution, we were not directly subject to reporting and other requirements of the Exchange Act, and Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. As a result of the Separation, we are now subject to such reporting and other requirements. These and other obligations will place significant demands on our management, administrative and operational resources, including accounting and information technology resources.. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that, among other things, we establish and maintain effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting and disclosure purposes. Internal control over financial reporting is complex and may be revised over time to adapt to changes in our business or changes in applicable accounting rules. We cannot assure you that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in the future or that a material weakness will not be discovered with respect to a prior period for which we had previously believed that internal controls were effective. If we are not able to maintain or document effective internal control over financial reporting, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be able to certify as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.. Matters affecting our internal controls may cause us to be unable to report our financial information on a timely basis, or may cause us to restate previously issued financial information, and thereby subject us to adverse regulatory consequences, including sanctions or investigations by the SEC, or violations of applicable stock exchange listing rules. There could also be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements. Confidence in the reliability of our financial statements is also likely to suffer if we or our independent registered public accounting firm reports a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting.. For as long as we are an emerging growth company under the Jumpstart our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the \"JOBS Act\"), our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. An independent assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls could detect problems that management's assessment might not. Undetected material weaknesses in our internal controls could lead to restatements of our financial statements and require us to incur the expense of remediation. We expect to no longer qualify as an emerging growth company in 2018.. Risks Relating to our Debt Agreements. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that may limit our flexibility in operating our business.. Our debt agreements contain various covenants that limit our flexibility in operating our businesses, including our ability to engage in specified types of transactions and requires that a portion of our cash flow from operations be used to service this debt, which reduces cash flow available for other corporate purposes, including capital expenditures and acquisitions. Subject to certain exceptions, these covenants restrict our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things:. •  permit liens on current or future assets. •  enter into certain corporate transactions. •  incur additional indebtedness. •  make certain payments or distributions. •  dispose of certain property. •  prepay or amend the terms of other indebtedness. •  enter into transactions with affiliates. 17. Increases in interest rates could increase interest payable under our variable rate indebtedness.. A significant portion of our outstanding indebtedness includes variable rate indebtedness under our financing arrangements. As a result of this indebtedness, we are subject to interest rate risk. Our interest rates are based on a floating rate index, and changes in interest rates could increase the amount of our interest payments and thus negatively impact our future earnings and cash flows. If we do not have sufficient cash flow to make interest payments, we may be required to refinance all or part of our outstanding debt, sell assets, borrow additional money or sell securities, none of which we can guarantee we would be able to complete on acceptable terms or at all.. Risks Relating to our Common Stock. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future.. We intend to retain future earnings to finance and grow our business. As a result, we do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. All decisions regarding the payment of dividends will be made in the sole discretion of our board of directors from time to time in accordance with applicable law. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient surplus under Delaware law to be able to pay any dividends at any time in the future. This may result from extraordinary cash expenses, actual costs exceeding contemplated costs, funding of capital expenditures or increases in reserves.. Your percentage of ownership in Cars.com may be diluted in the future.. In the future, your percentage ownership in our Company may be diluted because of equity awards that we will be granting to our directors, officers and employees or otherwise as a result of equity issuances for acquisitions or capital market transactions. Such awards will have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. From time to time, we will issue additional stock-based awards to our employees under our employee benefits plans.. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock that have such designation, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors generally may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" and, as a result of the reduced disclosure and governance requirements applicable to emerging growth companies, our common stock may be less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the JOBS Act, and we take advantage of some of the exemptions from reporting requirements that are afforded to emerging growth companies including, but not limited to, exemption from the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may become more volatile. We may take advantage of these exemptions until we are no longer an emerging growth company.. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, tax matters agreement, separation and distribution agreement, employee matters agreement, transition services agreement, and Delaware law may discourage takeovers and limit our ability to use, acquire, or develop certain competing businesses.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws contain certain provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws, collectively:. •  authorize the issuance of preferred stock that could be used by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt;. •  provide vacancies on our board of directors, including vacancies resulting from an enlargement of our Board, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office;. •  place limits on which stockholders may call special meetings of stockholders, and limit the actions that may be taken at such a meeting;. •  prohibit stockholder action by written consent; and. •  Establish advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for elections as directors or to bring other business before an annual meeting of our stockholders.. 18. These provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control, even though a majority of stockholders may consider such proposal, if effected, desirable. Such provisions could also make it more difficult for third parties to remove and replace the members of our board of directors. Moreover, these provisions may inhibit increases in the trading price of our common stock that may result from takeover attempts or speculation.. Under the tax matters agreement entered into at the time of the Separation, we agreed to indemnify our former parent for certain tax related matters, and we may be unable to take certain actions as a result. We are unable to take certain actions because such actions could jeopardize the tax-free status of the distribution. Such restrictions could be significant, in addition, the separation and distribution agreement, the tax matters agreement, the employee matters agreement and the transition services agreement cover specified indemnification and other matters that may arise after the distribution. The separation and distribution agreement, the tax matters agreement, the employee matters agreement and the transition services agreement may have the effect of discouraging or preventing an acquisition of us or a disposition of our business.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates the state courts of the State of Delaware, or, if no state court located in the State of Delaware has jurisdiction, the federal court for the District of Delaware, as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could discourage lawsuits against us and our directors and officers.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, unless our board of directors otherwise determines, the state courts of the State of Delaware, or, if no state court located in the State of Delaware has jurisdiction, the federal court for the District of Delaware, will be the sole and exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, any action asserting a claim for or based on breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our current or former directors or officers to us or to our stockholders, including a claim alleging the aiding and abetting of such a breach of fiduciary duty; any action asserting a claim against us or any of our current or former directors or officers arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the \"DGCL\") or our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or bylaws; any action asserting a claim relating to or involving us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine; or any action asserting an \"internal corporate claim\" as such term is defined in the DGCL. This exclusive forum provision may limit the ability of our stockholders to bring a claim in a judicial forum that such stockholders find favorable for disputes with us or our current or former directors or officers, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our current or former directors and officers. Alternatively, if a court outside of Delaware were to find this exclusive forum provision inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings described above, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions."
