[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risks described in this report before making a decision to invest in our securities. If any of such risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our securities could decline and you might lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Industry. The convenience store industry is highly competitive.. The convenience store and retail fuel industries in which we operate are highly competitive and characterized by ease of entry and constant change in the number and type of retailers offering the products and services found in our stores. We compete with many other convenience store chains, gasoline stations, supermarkets, drugstores, discount stores, club stores, fast food outlets, and mass merchants, and a variety of other retail companies, including retail gasoline companies that have more extensive retail outlets, greater brand name recognition and established fuel supply arrangements. Several non-traditional retailers such as supermarkets, club stores, and mass merchants have affected the convenience store industry by entering the retail fuel business. These non-traditional fuel retailers have obtained a significant share of the motor fuels market, and their market share is expected to grow. Certain of these non-traditional retailers may use more extensive promotional pricing or discounts, both at the fuel pump and in the store, to encourage in-store merchandise sales and gasoline sales.  In some of our markets, our competitors have been in existence longer and have greater financial, marketing, and other resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may have a greater ability to bear the economic risks inherent in our industry, and may be able to respond better to changes in the economy and new opportunities within the industry.   This intense competition could adversely affect our revenues and profitability, and have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. To remain competitive, we must constantly analyze consumer preferences and competitors' offerings and prices to ensure we offer convenience products and services consumers demand at competitive prices. We must also maintain and upgrade our customer service levels, facilities, and locations to remain competitive and attract customer traffic. These competitive pressures. 7. could materially and adversely affect our fuel and merchandise sales and gross profit margins, and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business and our reputation could be adversely affected by a data security incident or the failure to protect sensitive customer, employee or vendor data, or the failure to comply with applicable regulations relating to data security and privacy.. In the normal course of our business as a retailer, we obtain and have access to large amounts of personal data, including but not limited to credit and debit card information and other personally identifiable information from our customers, employees, and vendors. While we invest significant resources and have engaged professional advisers in the protection of such data and information, our IT systems, and incident response programs, and maintain what we believe are adequate security controls, a compromise or a breach in our systems, or other data security incident that results in the loss, unauthorized release, disclosure or acquisition of such data or information, or other sensitive data or information, could nonetheless occur and have a material adverse effect on our reputation, operating results and financial condition.. A data security incident of any kind could expose us to risk in terms of the loss, unauthorized release, disclosure or acquisition of sensitive customer, employee or vendor data, and could result in litigation or other regulatory action being brought against us and damage, monetary and other claims made by or on behalf of the payment card brands, customers, employees, shareholders, financial institutions and governmental agencies.  Such claims could give rise to substantial monetary damages and losses which are not covered, or in some instances fully covered, by our insurance policies and which could adversely affect our reputation, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Moreover, a data security incident could require that we expend significant additional resources on mitigation efforts and to further upgrade the security and other measures that we employ to guard against, and respond to, such incidents.. The volatility of wholesale petroleum costs could adversely affect our operating results.. Our net income is significantly affected by changes in the margins we receive on our retail fuel sales.  Over the past three fiscal years, on average our fuel revenues accounted for approximately 60% of total revenue and our fuel revenue less cost of goods sold excluding depreciation and amortization accounted for approximately 23% of the total revenue less cost of goods sold excluding depreciation and amortization. Crude oil and domestic wholesale petroleum markets are marked by significant volatility. General political conditions, threatened or actual acts of war or terrorism, and instability or other changes in oil producing regions, particularly in the Middle East and South America, can significantly affect crude oil supplies and wholesale petroleum costs. In addition, the supply of fuel and wholesale purchase costs could be adversely affected in the event of a shortage, which could result from, among other things, lack of capacity at United States oil refineries or, in our case, the absence of fuel contracts that guarantee an uninterrupted, unlimited supply of fuel. Significant increases and volatility in wholesale petroleum costs have resulted and could in the future result in significant increases in the retail price of petroleum products and in lower average fuel margins per gallon. Increases in the retail price of petroleum products have resulted and could in the future adversely affect consumer demand for fuel. This volatility makes it difficult to predict the impact that future wholesale cost fluctuations will have on our operating results and financial condition in future periods. These factors could adversely affect our fuel gallon volume, fuel revenue less cost of goods sold excluding depreciation and amortization, and overall customer traffic, which in turn would affect our sales of grocery and general merchandise and prepared food products.. Any significant change in one or more of these factors could materially affect the number of fuel gallons sold, fuel revenue less cost of goods sold excluding depreciation and amortization and overall customer traffic, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Developments related to fuel efficiency, fuel conservation practices, climate change, and changing consumer preferences may decrease the demand for motor fuel.. Technological advances and consumer behavior in reducing fuel use and governmental mandates to improve fuel efficiency could lessen the demand for our largest revenue product, petroleum-based motor fuel, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operation.  Changes in our climate, including the effects of greenhouse gas emissions in the environment, may lessen demand or lead to additional government regulation.  In addition, a      shift toward electric, hydrogen, natural gas or other alternative fuel-powered vehicles, including driverless motor vehicles, could fundamentally change the shopping and driving habits of our customers or lead to new forms of fueling destinations or new competitive pressure.  Any of these outcomes could potentially result in fewer customer visits to our stores, decreases both in fuel and general merchandise sales revenue or lower profit margins, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 8. Increased credit card expenses could increase operating expenses.. A significant percentage of our sales are made with the use of credit cards. Since the interchange fees we pay when credit cards are used to make purchases are based on transaction amounts, higher fuel prices at the pump and higher gallon movement result in higher credit card expenses. These additional fees increase operating expenses. Higher operating expenses that result from higher credit card fees may decrease our overall profit and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Total credit card fees paid in fiscal 2018, 2017, and 2016, were approximately $123 million, $110 million, and $100 million, respectively.. Wholesale cost and tax increases relating to tobacco products could affect our operating results.. Sales of tobacco products have averaged approximately 12% of our total revenue over the past three fiscal years, and our tobacco revenue less cost of goods sold excluding depreciation and amortization accounted for approximately 10% of the total revenue less cost of goods sold excluding depreciation and amortization for the same period. Any significant increases in wholesale cigarette costs or tax increases on tobacco products may have a materially adverse effect on unit demand for cigarettes. Currently, major cigarette manufacturers offer significant rebates to retailers, although there can be no assurance that such rebate programs will continue. We include these rebates as a component of cost of goods sold, which affects our gross margin from sales of cigarettes. In the event these rebates are no longer offered or decreased, our wholesale cigarette costs will increase accordingly. In general, we attempt to pass price increases on to our customers. Due to competitive pressures in our markets, however, we may not always be able to do so. These factors could adversely affect our retail price of cigarettes, cigarette unit volume and revenues, merchandise revenue less cost of goods sold excluding depreciation and amortization, and overall customer traffic, and in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Governmental action and campaigns to discourage smoking and other tobacco products may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and gross profit.. Congress has given the Food and Drug Administration (\"FDA\") broad authority to regulate tobacco products, and the FDA has enacted numerous regulations restricting the sale of such products. These governmental actions, as well as national, state and local campaigns to discourage smoking and other factors, have resulted in reduced industry volume and consumption levels, and could materially affect the retail price of cigarettes, unit volume and revenues, gross profit, and overall customer traffic, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Also, increasing regulations for e-cigarettes and vapor products could offset some of the recent gains we have experienced from selling these types of products.. Future consumer or other litigation could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our retail operations are characterized by a high volume of customer traffic and by transactions involving a wide array of product selections, including prepared food. These operations carry a higher exposure to consumer litigation risk when compared to the operations of companies operating in many other industries. Consequently, we may become a party to individual personal injury, bad fuel, product liability and other legal actions in the ordinary course of our business. While these actions are generally routine in nature, incidental to the operation of our business and immaterial in scope, if our assessment of any action or actions should prove inaccurate, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Additionally, we are occasionally exposed to industry-wide or class-action claims arising from the products we carry, industry-specific business practices or other operational matters.  Our defense costs and any resulting damage awards or settlement amounts may not be covered, or in some instances fully covered, by our insurance policies. Thus, an unfavorable outcome or settlement of one or more of these lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and results of operations in a particular period or periods.. General economic conditions that are largely out of the Company's control may adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. Current economic conditions, higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, inflation, increases in commodity prices, higher levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws or other economic factors may affect consumer spending or buying habits, and could adversely affect the demand for products the Company sells in its stores. Unfavorable economic conditions, especially those affecting the agricultural industry, higher fuel prices, and unemployment levels can affect consumer confidence, spending patterns, and miles driven, and can cause customers to \"trade down\" to lower priced products in certain categories when these conditions exist. These factors can lead to sales declines in both fuel and general merchandise, and in turn have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 9. Risks Related to Our Business. Food-safety issues and food-borne illnesses, whether actual or reported, or the failure to comply with applicable regulations relating to the transportation, storage, preparation or service of food, could adversely affect our business and reputation.. Instances or reports, whether verified or not, of food-safety issues, such as food-borne illnesses, food tampering, food contamination or mislabeling, either during growing, manufacturing, packaging, transportation, storage or preparation, have in the past significantly damaged the reputations and impacted the sales of companies in the food processing, grocery, quick service and \"fast casual\" restaurant sectors, and could affect us as well.  Any instances of, or reports linking us to, food-borne illnesses or food tampering, contamination, mislabeling or other food-safety issues could damage the value of the Casey's brand and severely hurt sales of our prepared food products and possibly lead to product liability and personal injury claims, litigation (including class actions), government agency investigations and damages.. In addition, customer preferences and store traffic could be adversely impacted by food-safety issues, health concerns or negative publicity about the consumption of our products, which could cause a decline in demand for those products and adversely impact our sales.. Unfavorable weather conditions can adversely affect our business.. All of our stores are located in the central region of the United States, which is susceptible to tornadoes, thunderstorms, extended periods of rain or unseasonably cold temperatures, flooding, ice storms, and heavy snow. Inclement weather conditions could damage our facilities or could have a significant impact on consumer behavior, travel, and convenience store traffic patterns as well as our ability to operate our locations. In addition, we typically generate higher revenues and gross margins during warmer weather months, which fall within our first and second fiscal quarters. When weather conditions are not favorable during a particular period, our operating results and cash flow from operations could be adversely affected.. Any failure to anticipate and respond to changes in consumer preferences, or to introduce and promote innovative technology for customer interaction, could adversely affect our financial results.. Our continued success depends on our ability to remain relevant with respect to consumer needs and wants, attitudes toward our industry and our customers' preferences for ways of doing business with us, particularly with respect to digital engagement. We must continually work to develop, produce and market new products, maintain and enhance the recognition of our brands, offer a favorable mix of products, and refine our approach as to how and where we market and sell our products. This risk is compounded by the increasing use of social and digital media by consumers and the speed by which information and opinions are shared. If we are unable to anticipate and respond to sudden challenges that we may face in the marketplace, trends in the market for our products and changing consumer demands and sentiment, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The prices of certain commodities fluctuate widely.. The wholesale costs we pay for certain commodities such as cheese and coffee can fluctuate widely from period to period.  Any significant increase in the wholesale costs of such commodities could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations in a particular period or periods.. The prices of \"RINs\" fluctuate widely.. In certain states, we blend bulk fuel with ethanol and bio-diesel and sell the associated \"renewable identification numbers\" (\"RINs\") that are generated in the process.  The market prices paid to us for our RINs can fluctuate widely from period to period and can have a significant impact on our financial results for a particular period or periods. The market price for RINs fluctuates based on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, governmental and regulatory action, perceptions concerning the prospect for changes in the renewable fuels standards or the future availability of RINs, and other market dynamics.  During the past three fiscal years, the average sale price has been $0.69 per RIN.  Due to the inherent price volatility of RINs, there can be no assurance that we will be able to sell our RINs in the future at any particular price. Any significant decline in the market price of RINs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in a particular period or periods.. We may not be able to identify, acquire, and integrate new stores, which could adversely affect our ability to grow our business.. 10. An important part of our growth strategy has been to acquire other convenience stores that complement our existing stores or broaden our geographic presence. From May 1, 2017 through April 30, 2018 we acquired 26 convenience stores and opened 20 of those stores. We expect to continue pursuing acquisition opportunities.. Acquisitions involve risks that could cause our actual growth or operating results to differ materially from our expectations or the expectations of securities analysts. These risks include:. • The inability to identify and acquire suitable sites at advantageous prices;. • Competition in targeted market areas;. • Difficulties during the acquisition process in discovering some of the liabilities of the businesses that we acquire;. • Difficulties associated with our existing financial controls, information systems, management resources and human resources needed to support our future growth;. • Difficulties with hiring, training and retaining skilled personnel, including store managers;. • Difficulties in adapting distribution and other operational and management systems to an expanded network of stores;. • Difficulties in obtaining governmental and other third-party consents, permits and licenses needed to operate additional stores;. • Difficulties in obtaining the cost savings and financial improvements we anticipate from future acquired stores;. • The potential diversion of our senior management's attention from focusing on our core business due to an increased focus on acquisitions; and. • Challenges associated with the consummation and integration of any future acquisition.. We are subject to extensive governmental regulations.. Our business is subject to extensive governmental laws and regulations that include but are not limited to those relating to environmental protection; the preparation, sale and labeling of food; minimum wage, overtime and other employment laws and regulations; compliance with the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Americans with Disabilities Act; legal restrictions on the sale of alcohol, tobacco, money order and lottery products; compliance with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards and similar requirements; compliance with the Federal Motor Carriers Safety Administration regulations; securities laws and Nasdaq listing standards.  The costs of compliance with these laws and regulations is substantial, and a violation of or change in such laws and/or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Under various federal, state, and local laws, regulations, and ordinances, we may, as the owner/operator of our locations, be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of contamination at these or our former locations, whether or not we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of such contamination. Failure to remediate such contamination properly may make us liable to third parties and adversely affect our ability to sell or lease such property.. Compliance with existing and future environmental laws regulating underground storage tanks may require significant capital expenditures and increased operating and maintenance costs. The remediation costs and other costs required to clean up or treat contaminated sites could be substantial. We pay tank registration fees and other taxes to state trust funds established in our operating areas in support of future remediation obligations.. These state trust funds are expected to pay or reimburse us for remediation expenses less a deductible. To the extent third parties do not pay for remediation as we anticipate, we will be obligated to make these payments, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Reimbursements from state trust funds will be dependent on the maintenance and continued solvency of the various funds.. In the future, we may incur substantial expenditures for remediation of contamination that has yet to be discovered at existing locations or at locations we may acquire. We cannot assure you that we have identified all environmental liabilities at all of our current and former locations; that material environmental conditions not known to us do not exist; that future laws, ordinances, or regulations will not impose material environmental liability on us; or that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist at any one or more of our locations. In addition, failure to comply with any environmental laws, regulations, or ordinances or an increase in regulations could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. State laws regulate the sale of alcohol, tobacco, and lottery products. A violation or change of these laws could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations because state and local regulatory agencies have the power to. 11. approve, revoke, suspend, or deny applications for and renewals of permits and licenses relating to the sale of these products or to seek other remedies.. Any appreciable increase in income, overtime pay, or the statutory minimum salary requirements, minimum wage rate, mandatory scheduling laws (or scheduling notification laws), or the adoption of additional mandated healthcare benefits would result in an increase in our labor costs. Such cost increases or the penalties for failing to comply could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. State or federal lawmakers or regulators may also enact new laws or regulations applicable to us that may have a material adverse and potentially disparate impact on our business.. The dangers inherent in the storage and transport of motor fuel could cause disruptions and could expose to us potentially significant losses, costs or liabilities.. We store motor fuel in storage tanks at our retail locations. Additionally, a significant portion of motor fuel is transported in our own trucks, instead of by third-party carriers. Our operations are subject to significant hazards and risks inherent in transporting and storing motor fuel. These hazards and risks include, but are not limited to, fires, explosions, traffic accidents, spills, discharges and other releases, any of which could result in distribution difficulties and disruptions, environmental pollution, governmentally-imposed fines or clean-up obligations, personal injury or wrongful death claims and other damage to our properties and the properties of others. As a result, any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Because we depend on our management's and other employees' experience and knowledge of our industry, we could be adversely affected were we to lose, or experience difficulty in recruiting and retaining, any such members of our team.. We are dependent on the continued knowledge and efforts of our management team and other key employees. If, for any reason, our executives do not continue to be active in management, or we lose such persons, or other key employees, or we fail to identify and/or recruit for current or future positions of need, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. We also rely on our ability to recruit qualified drivers, store managers, supervisors, district managers, regional managers and other store personnel. Failure to continue to attract these individuals at reasonable compensation levels could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We rely on our information technology systems to manage numerous aspects of our business, and a disruption of these systems could adversely affect our business.. We depend on our information technology (IT) systems to manage numerous aspects of our business transactions and provide analytical information to management. Our IT systems are an essential component of our business and growth strategies, and a serious disruption to our IT systems could significantly limit our ability to manage and operate our business efficiently. These systems are vulnerable to, among other things, damage and interruption from power loss or natural disasters, computer system and network failures, loss of telecommunications services, physical and electronic loss of, or loss of access to, data and information, security breaches or other security incidents, and computer viruses or attacks. Any disruption could cause our business and competitive position to suffer and cause our operating results to be reduced. Also, our business continuity plan could fail.. Control deficiencies could prevent us from accurately and timely reporting our financial results.. Our internal control over financial reporting constitutes a process, including controls, designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (\"GAAP\"). We have in the past and may in the future identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, including significant deficiencies and material weaknesses. Failure to identify and remediate deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting in a timely manner could prevent us from accurately and timely reporting our financial results, which could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, lead to a loss of investor confidence and have a negative impact on the trading price of our common stock.. Our operations present hazards and risks which may not be fully covered by insurance, if insured.. The scope and nature of our operations present a variety of operational hazards and risks that must be managed through continual oversight and control.  As protection against hazards and risks, we maintain insurance against many, but not all, potential losses or liabilities arising from such risks.  Uninsured losses and liabilities from operating risks could reduce the funds available to us for capital and investment spending and could have a material adverse impact on the results of operations in a particular period or periods.. 12. Covenants in the agreements relating to our Senior Notes require us to meet financial maintenance tests.  Failure to comply with these requirements could have a material impact to us.. We are required to meet certain financial and non-financial covenants under our existing note agreements relating to our Senior Notes.  A breach of any covenant could result in a default under the note agreements, which could, if not timely cured, permit lenders to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable, and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operation.. Compliance with and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our performance.. We are subject to extensive tax liabilities imposed by multiple jurisdictions, including but not limited to income taxes, indirect taxes (excise, sales/use, and gross receipts taxes), payroll taxes, property taxes, and tobacco taxes.  Tax laws and regulations are dynamic and subject to change as new laws are passed and new interpretations of existing laws are issued and applied.  The activity could result in increased expenditures for tax liabilities in the future.  Many of these liabilities are subject to periodic audits by the respective taxing authorities.  Subsequent changes to our tax liabilities as a result of these audits may subject us to interest and penalties.. A significant disruption to our distribution network, to the capacity of the distribution centers, or timely receipt of inventory could adversely impact our sales or increase our transaction costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We rely on our distribution and transportation network to provide products to our stores in a timely and cost-effective manner.  Product is moved from vendor locations to the two distribution centers.  Deliveries to our stores occur from the distribution center or directly from our vendors.  Any disruption, unanticipated or unusual expense or operational failure related to this process could affect our store operations negatively.. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of products could affect our operating results.  We depend on regular deliveries of products that meet our specifications.  In addition, we have a single supplier or limited number of suppliers for certain products.  While we believe there are adequate reserve quantities and alternative suppliers, shortages or interruptions in the receipt of products caused by unanticipated demand, problems in production or distribution, financial or other difficulties of suppliers, inclement weather or other conditions could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of products, and our operating results.. We may experience difficulties implementing our new enterprise resource planning system.. We are engaged in a phased implementation of a new enterprise resource planning (ERP) system, which will replace or enhance certain internal financial, operating and other systems that are critical to our business operations.  The implementation of our ERP system has and will continue to require a significant investment of human and financial resources.  While we have invested, and continue to invest, significant resources in planning and project management, significant implementation issues may arise during the course of implementing the ERP system, and it is possible that we may experience significant delays, increased costs and other difficulties that are not presently contemplated.  Any significant disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design and implementation of the ERP system could adversely affect our operations and negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may experience difficulties implementing and realizing the results of our value creation plan.. We are engaged in a multi-year implementation of a recently announced \"value creation plan\" for our business centered around three key initiatives - our fleet card program, digital engagement, and price optimization. While we have invested, and will continue to invest, significant resources in planning, development, project management and implementation of the plan, it is possible that we may experience significant delays, increased costs and other difficulties that are not presently contemplated.  Further, the intended results of the plan may not be realized as anticipated. Any such issues could adversely affect our operations and negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Other Risks. Any issuance of shares of our common stock in the future could have a dilutive effect on your investment.. 13. We could issue additional shares for investment, acquisition, or other business purposes. Even if there is not an immediate need for capital, we may choose to issue securities to sell in public or private equity markets, if and when conditions are favorable. Raising funds by issuing securities would dilute the ownership interests of our existing shareholders. Additionally, certain types of equity securities we may issue in the future could have rights, preferences, or privileges senior to the rights of existing holders of our common stock.. Iowa law and provisions in our charter documents may have the effect of preventing or hindering a change in control and adversely affecting the market price of our common stock.. Our articles of incorporation give the Company's board of directors the authority to issue up to one million shares of preferred stock and to determine the rights and preferences of the preferred stock without obtaining shareholder approval. The existence of this preferred stock could make it more difficult or discourage an attempt to obtain control of the Company by means of a tender offer, merger, proxy contest, or otherwise. Furthermore, this preferred stock could be issued with other rights, including economic rights, senior to our common stock, thereby having a potentially adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. Although the Company will begin a phased declassification of its board of directors over a three-year period starting with the Company's 2019 annual shareholders' meeting, its board of directors is currently staggered. Our staggered board, along with other provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and Iowa corporate law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us or remove our directors by means of a proxy contest, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. For example, Section 409.1110 of the Iowa Business Corporation Act prohibits publicly held Iowa corporations to which it applies from engaging in a business combination with an interested shareholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested shareholder unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Further, Section 490.1108A of the Iowa Business Corporation Act permits a board of directors, in the context of a takeover proposal, to consider not only the effect of a proposed transaction on shareholders, but also on a corporation's employees, suppliers, customers, creditors, and on the communities in which the corporation operates. These provisions could discourage others from bidding for our shares and could, as a result, reduce the likelihood of an increase in our stock price that would otherwise occur if a bidder sought to buy our stock.. We may, in the future, adopt other measures (such as a shareholder rights plan or \"poison pill\") that could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing an unsolicited takeover, even if such a change in control were at a premium price or favored by a majority of unaffiliated shareholders. These measures may be adopted without any further vote or action by our shareholders.. The market price for our common stock has been and may in the future be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline.. Securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility could significantly affect the market price of our common stock without regard to our operating performance. In addition, the price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to these and other factors:. • A deviation in our results from the expectations of public market analysts and investors;. • Statements by research analysts about our common stock, company, or industry;. • Changes in market valuations of companies in our industry and market evaluations of our industry generally;. • Additions or departures of key personnel;. • Actions taken by our competitors;. • Sales of common stock by the Company, senior officers, or other affiliates; and. • Other general economic, political, or market conditions, many of which are beyond our control.. The market price of our common stock will also be affected by our quarterly operating results and same store sales results, which may be expected to fluctuate. Some of the factors that may affect our quarterly results and same store sales include general, regional, and national economic conditions; competition; unexpected costs; changes in retail pricing, consumer trends, and the number of stores we open and/or close during any given period; costs of compliance with corporate governance and Sarbanes-Oxley requirements. Other factors are discussed throughout Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You may not be able to resell your shares of our common stock at or above the price you pay.. 14. Table of Contents"
