[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. We are subject to a number of risks. Some of these risks are endemic to the high-technology and semiconductor industry and are the same or similar to those disclosed in our previous SEC filings. This section should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes thereto, and \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" included in this Annual Report. The risks and uncertainties set out below are not the only risks and uncertainties we face. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks and investors may lose all or part of their investment. The information included in this Annual Report is provided as of the filing date with the SEC and future events or circumstances could differ significantly from the forward-looking statements included herein.. Risks related to our Business. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate due to many factors and are difficult to forecast, which may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline substantially.. Our operating results have historically been and in the future may be adversely affected or otherwise fluctuate due to factors such as:. <U+0095>    fluctuations in customer demand for the electronic devices into which our products are incorporated;. <U+0095>    volatility in demand affecting semiconductor prices generally, such as an increase in the supply of competitive products and a significant decline in average selling prices;. 14. Table of Contents. <U+0095>    volatility in supply affecting our ability to meet customer demand;. <U+0095>    establishment of additional inventory reserves if sales of our inventory fall below our expected sales, or the anticipated selling prices of our products fall below the amounts paid to produce and sell certain parts;. <U+0095>    changes in our product mix including product category, density, package type, lead content or voltage;. <U+0095>    inadequate visibility of future demand for our products;. <U+0095>    timing of new product introductions and orders for our products;. <U+0095>    increases in expenses associated with new product introductions and promotions, process changes and/or expansion of our sales channels and audit fees to comply with new accounting regulations;. <U+0095>    increases in wafer prices due to increased market demand and other factors;. <U+0095>    increases in prices charged by our suppliers due to increased costs, decreased competition and other factors;. <U+0095>    fluctuations in manufacturing yields;. <U+0095>    gains or losses of significant OEM customers or indirect channel sellers, such as distributors or resellers;. <U+0095>    increases in costs associated with evaluating strategic alternatives or merger or acquisitions;. <U+0095>    changes in our accounting principles as a consequence of our adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (\"SFAS\") No. 123 (revised 2004), \"Share-Based Payment,\" (\"SFAS No. 123(R)\") and Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") Interpretation No. 48, \"Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes - an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109\" (\"FIN 48\"); and. <U+0095>    general economic conditions.. Our net revenues and operating results are difficult to forecast. We base our expense levels, in significant part, on our expectations of future net revenues and our expenses are therefore relatively fixed in the short term. If our net revenues fall below our forecasts, our operating results are likely to be disproportionately adversely affected because our costs are difficult to reduce significantly in the short term.. We may never realize a material portion of our net revenues from our analog/mixed-signal products, despite our expenditure of a disproportionate amount of our research and development and marketing resources on these products.. Analog/mixed-signal products accounted for 15.0%, 8.9% and 7.6% of net revenues for fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006 respectively. We believe that the growth in our analog/mixed-signal product revenues has been limited due to the extended product design cycles and production lead times and a sales force that is still gaining experience selling these products. We continue to invest in and devote research and development and marketing resources to analog/mixed-signal products with the expectation that our analog/mixed-signal products will be accepted by many of our current customers and additional new customers. Competition is intense and our ability to compete is impacted by our relatively limited range of products while our more established competitors are offering a much broader array of analog/mixed-signal products. Many customers favor a vendor that offers a broad range of products. If we are unable to realize more revenues from these products, our net revenues may not grow. In addition, if we devote a disproportionate amount of our research and development resources to analog/mixed-signal products, our development of new non-volatile memory products may suffer and operating results may be harmed.. 15. Table of Contents. We have in the past been unable and in the future we may be unable to obtain sufficient quantities of wafers from our current foundry suppliers to fulfill customer demand.. We currently purchase a majority of our production wafers from two foundries, OKI Semiconductor and X-FAB. In June 2008, we signed a wafer supply agreement with OKI Semiconductor for a five year period. However, OKI Semiconductor recently announced the spin-off of its semiconductor unit and transfer of 95% of the new company's shares to Rohm Co. Ltd. Although we do not expect this to materially affect our relationship with OKI Semiconductor, our business could be adversely affected by this development. In addition, we do not presently have a wafer supply agreement with X-FAB and instead purchase wafers on a purchase order and acceptance basis. To address our wafer supply concerns, we plan to continue expanding our foundry capability by qualifying our products in multiple fabrication plants owned by our current and other suppliers. As the need arises, from time to time, we may pursue additional wafer sources. However, we cannot be certain that these efforts will provide us with access to adequate capacity in the future at costs which will enable us to remain profitable. Even if such capacity is available from another manufacturer, the qualification process and time required to make the foundry fully operational for us could take many months or longer and be subject to other factors described below and the prices could be materially higher. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by:. <U+0095>    inadequate wafer supplies to meet our production needs;. <U+0095>    the loss of any of our current foundries as a supplier;. <U+0095>    increased prices charged by these independent foundries;. <U+0095>    reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields and costs;. <U+0095>    our inability to qualify our current foundry suppliers for additional products; and. <U+0095>    any other problems foundries may have that cause a significant interruption in our supply of semiconductor wafers.. We may forecast incorrectly and produce excess or insufficient inventories of particular products, which may adversely affect our results of operations.. Since we must order products and build inventory substantially in advance of product shipments, we may forecast incorrectly and produce excess or insufficient inventories of particular products. The ability of our customers to reschedule or cancel orders without significant penalty could adversely affect our liquidity, as we may be unable to adjust our purchases from our wafer suppliers to match any customer changes and cancellations. As part of our business strategy, we maintain a substantial inventory of sorted wafers in a die bank but limit our investment in finished goods. We may have adequate wafer inventory to meet customer needs but may be unable to finish the manufacturing process prior to the delivery date specified by the customer. Demand for our products is volatile and customers often place orders with short lead times. Our inventory may not be reduced by the fulfillment of customer orders and in the future we may produce excess quantities of our products.. It is our policy to fully write down all inventories that we do not expect to sell in a reasonable period of time. During recent fiscal years, as a result of reductions in estimated demand for our various products, we have taken charges for write down of inventories for certain products, primarily our EEPROM products. For example, we recorded inventory write down charges of $1.2 million, $2.2 million and $1.0 million for fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, which were partially offset by benefits of $631,000, $575,000 and $794,000, respectively, relating to products that were written off in prior periods and sold during these periods. We may suffer reductions in values of our inventories in the future and we may be unable to liquidate our inventory at acceptable prices. To the extent we have excess inventories of particular products, our operating results could be adversely affected by charges to cost of revenues that we would be required to recognize due to significant reductions in demand for our products or rapid declines in the market value of inventory, resulting in inventory write downs or other related factors.. 16. Table of Contents. We may be unable to fulfill all our customers' orders according to the schedule originally requested due to the constraints in our wafer supply and processing time from die bank to finished goods, which could result in reduced revenues or higher expenses.. Due to the lead time constraints in our wafer supply, foundry activities and other manufacturing processes, from time to time we have been unable to fulfill all our customers' orders on the schedule originally requested. Although we attempt to anticipate pending orders and maintain an adequate supply of wafers and communicate to our customers delivery dates that we believe we can reasonably expect to meet, our customers may not accept the alternative delivery date or may cancel their outstanding orders. Reductions in orders received or cancellation of outstanding orders would result in lower net revenues and reduced operating results, excess inventories and increased inventory reserves. We may also be required to pay substantially higher per wafer prices to replenish our die bank, which could harm our gross margins. If we were requested to pay rush charges to our manufacturing or foundry suppliers to meet a customer's requested delivery date, our expenses would increase and possibly harm our operating results.. We rely on distributors and resellers for a substantial portion of our net revenues and if our relationships with one or more of those distributors or resellers were to terminate, our operating results may be harmed.. We market and distribute our products primarily through independent distributors and resellers, which typically offer competing products. These distribution channels have been characterized by rapid change, including consolidations and financial difficulties. During fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, distributors and resellers accounted for approximately 60.2%, 56.8% and 60.2% of our net revenues, respectively. In fiscal 2008, Yosun, a Taiwan-based distributor with offices throughout Asia, represented 11.6% of our net revenues. For fiscal 2007 and 2006, Avnet, another distributor, represented 10.3% and 11.8%, respectively, of our net revenues.. Our business depends on these third parties to sell our products. As a result, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by the loss of one or more of our current distributors or resellers, additional volume pricing arrangements, order cancellations, delay in shipment by one of our distributors or resellers, or the failure of our distributors or sellers to successfully sell our products.. In addition, we have experienced and may continue to experience lower margins on sales to certain customers as a result of volume pricing arrangements. We also do not typically enter into long-term arrangements with our customers and we cannot be certain as to future order levels from our customers. When we do enter into long-term arrangements, the contracts are generally terminable at the convenience of either party and it may be difficult to replace that source of revenues in the short-term upon cancellation.. We face risks from failures in our manufacturing processes and the processes of our foundries and vendors.. The fabrication of semiconductors, particularly EEPROM products, is a highly complex and precise process. Most of our products are currently manufactured by two outside foundries and a number of other vendors participate in assembling, testing and other processing of our products. During manufacturing, each wafer is processed to provide numerous EEPROM, flash or analog/mixed-signal devices. We may reject or be unable to sell a substantial percentage of wafers or the components on a given wafer because of:. <U+0095>    minute impurities;. <U+0095>    difficulties in the fabrication process, such as failure of special equipment, operator error or power outages;. <U+0095>    defects in the masks used to imprint circuits on a wafer;. <U+0095>    nonconforming electrical and/or optical performance;. <U+0095>    breakage of wafers; or. <U+0095>    other factors.. 17. Table of Contents. We refer to the proportion of final components that have been processed, assembled and tested relative to the gross number of components that could be constructed from the raw materials as our manufacturing yield. Occasionally in the past we have experienced lower than expected manufacturing yields, which have delayed product shipments and negatively impacted our results of operations. We may experience difficulty achieving or maintaining acceptable manufacturing yields in the future. In addition, the maintenance of our outsourced fabrication, manufacturing and assembly model is subject to risks, including:. <U+0095>    the demands of managing and coordinating workflow between geographically separate production facilities;. <U+0095>    disruption of production in one facility as a result of a slowdown or shutdown in another facility; and. <U+0095>    higher operating costs from managing geographically separate manufacturing facilities.. We depend on certain vendors for foundry services, materials and test and assembly services. We maintain stringent policies regarding qualification of these vendors. However, if these vendors' processes vary in reliability or quality, they could negatively affect our products and our results of operations.. We rely on third party subcontractors to assemble, test and ship our products to customers, which reduces our control over quality, delivery schedules and capacity.. We outsource assembly and approximately 50% of our final test operations to subcontractors who are primarily located in Thailand and the Philippines. We do not have long-term contractual arrangements with these subcontractors. Our reliance on third parties subjects us to risks such as reduced control over delivery schedules and quality, a potential lack of adequate capacity during periods when demand is high and potential increases in product costs due to factors outside our control such as capacity shortages and pricing changes. Our outsourcing model could lead to delays in product deliveries, lost sales and increased costs which could harm our relationships with OEM customers and indirect sales channels and result in lower operating results. Because we utilize the services of a group of assembly and test providers, this makes our operation highly complex, requiring a high degree of diligence in managing the costs of production and overall logistics of our manufacturing operations.. We could experience disruption of our business as we decrease our dependence on third party subcontractors to conduct our final test operations.. As we transition from third party subcontractors to utilizing our own subsidiary, Catalyst Semiconductor Thailand Company Limited near Bangkok, Thailand, to support our on-going cost management efforts and to provide approximately 50% of our final test operations, we may encounter an interruption in our supply chain or an unanticipated increase in costs, which could delay or decrease our revenue or harm our business.. International sales comprise a significant portion of our product sales, which exposes us to foreign political and economic risks.. For fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, sales outside the United States accounted for approximately 92.1%, 92.1% and 88.2% of our net revenues, respectively. We expect that sales outside of the United States will continue to represent a significant portion of our net revenues in the future. However, our international operations may be adversely affected by the following factors:. <U+0095>    greater fluctuations in demand for our products due to the increased sensitivity to pricing changes in certain markets, particularly Asia;. <U+0095>    longer payment cycles;. <U+0095>    fluctuations in exchange rates, particularly any strengthening of the U.S. dollar versus other currencies;. <U+0095>    general economic conditions;. 18. Table of Contents. <U+0095>    imposition of government controls;. <U+0095>    difficulties in staffing international operations;. <U+0095>    political, socioeconomic and financial instability, such as the military actions in Afghanistan and Iraq;. <U+0095>    trade restrictions;. <U+0095>    the effects of natural catastrophes, such as earthquakes and weather-related occurrences;. <U+0095>    the impact of communicable diseases, such as severe acute respiratory syndrome and avian bird flu; and. <U+0095>    changes in regulatory requirements.. Our business is also subject to other risks because of our engineering design center in Romania, our operations in Thailand, and our relationships with foreign manufacturing, assembly and test subcontractors in Thailand and the Philippines. These risks include, but are not limited to, foreign government regulations and political and financial unrest which may cause disruptions or delays in shipments to our customers or access to our inventories. In fiscal 2007, we incorporated a new subsidiary, Catalyst Semiconductor Thailand Company Limited near Bangkok, Thailand, to support our on-going cost management efforts and to provide approximately 50% of our final test operations.. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our financial results and cash flows.. Because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in the value of the U.S. dollar. When we incur a cost denominated in a foreign currency we may pay more dollars than initially anticipated if that local currency strengthens against the dollar before we pay costs. Consequently, in addition to reducing our revenues or increasing our costs, this risk can negatively affect our operating results. We do not currently hedge against any foreign currency exchange rate risks.. Our corporate tax rate may increase, which could adversely impact our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations.. We have significant operations in various tax jurisdictions throughout the world and a substantial portion of our taxable income historically has been generated in these jurisdictions. Currently, some of our operations are taxed at rates substantially lower than U.S. tax rates. If our income in these lower tax jurisdictions were no longer to qualify for these lower tax rates, if the applicable tax laws were rescinded or changed, or if the mix of our earnings shifts from lower rate jurisdictions to higher rate jurisdictions, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. While we are looking at opportunities to reduce our tax rate, there is no assurance that our tax planning strategies will be successful. In addition, many of these strategies will require a period of time to implement. Moreover, if U.S. or other foreign tax authorities were to change applicable foreign tax laws or successfully challenge the manner in which our profits are currently recognized, our overall taxes could increase, and our business, cash flow, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We adopted the provisions of FIN 48 effective April 30, 2007. FIN 48 requires that we recognize in our financial statements the impact of a tax position if that position is more likely than not of being sustained on audit, based on the technical merits of the position. The cumulative effect of the change in accounting principle, which was immaterial, was recorded as an adjustment to beginning retained earnings.. Environmental regulations such as WEEE, RoHS and REACH directives may require us to redesign our products and to develop compliance administration systems.. Various countries have begun to require companies selling a broad range of electrical equipment to conform to regulations such as the WEEE, RoHS and REACH directives and we expect additional countries and locations to adopt similar regulations in the future. New environmental standards such as these could require us to redesign. 19. Table of Contents. our products in order to comply with the standards, and require the development of compliance administration systems. We have already invested significant resources into developing compliance tracking systems, and further investments may be required. Additionally, we may incur significant costs to redesign our products and to develop compliance administration systems; however, alternative designs may have an adverse effect on our gross profit margin. If we cannot develop compliant products timely or properly administer our compliance programs, our revenues may decline due to lower sales, which would adversely affect our operating results. Compliance in these regulations may also impose impact cash flow through the need for additional capital equipment or other requirements.. While we believe that we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are exposed to risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate internal control over financial reporting and cannot be certain that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective or sufficient in the future.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements.. As a result, we expect to continue to incur related expenses and to devote additional resources to Section 404 compliance. In addition, it is difficult for us to predict how long it will take to complete the assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting each year and we may not be able to complete the process on a timely basis. For example, in fiscal 2006 we experienced unanticipated delays in closing our books and completing our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act under Section 404. As such, we were not able to file our Annual Report by the original due date without unreasonable expense or effort. Our ability to manage our operations and growth will require us to improve our operations, financial and management controls, as well as our internal control over financial reporting. In the event that our principal executive officer, principal financial officer or independent registered public accounting firm determine that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under Section 404, we cannot predict how regulators will react or how the market prices of our shares will be affected.. Our ability to operate successfully depends upon the continued service of certain key employees and the continued ability to attract and retain additional highly qualified personnel.. Our ability to operate successfully will depend, to a large extent, upon the continued service of certain key employees and the continued ability to attract and retain additional highly qualified personnel. In February 2008, our Vice President of Worldwide Sales resigned; we are currently searching for a replacement. Competition for personnel, particularly for highly skilled design, process and test engineers, is intense and we may not be able to retain or attract other highly qualified personnel. In addition, there has been increased competition in Romania, making it more difficult to hire and retain qualified engineers at our design center. We have historically used stock options and other forms of stock-based compensation as a means to hire, motivate and retain our employees, and to align employees' interests with those of our stockholders. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the loss of or failure to attract and retain highly qualified personnel.. Our low-density flash memory products may become obsolete.. A portion of our net revenues have been and continue to be derived from sales of low density flash memory products. Flash memory products represented 3.9%, 6.5% and 8.3% of our net revenues for fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In general, the market for flash memory products has been characterized by competing technologies, migration of demand to larger memory sizes and intense overall competition. Other flash memory vendors continue to design, develop and sell flash memory devices with larger memory in reaction to changes in. 20. Table of Contents. market demand. This transition to larger flash memory sizes is resulting in a limited and shrinking market for the low density flash memory products that we currently offer. We have decided not to develop any of the higher density flash memory devices due to the extreme competition in the medium and high density flash memory market and the considerable costs of development associated with it. Due to these and other factors, we may experience declining net revenues from our low-density flash memory products, which could harm our operating results.. We are not protected by long-term contracts with our customers.. We do not typically enter into long-term contracts with our distributors and resellers, and we cannot be certain as to future order levels from them. In the event one of our major distributors fails to place their usual orders in a quarter, it is unlikely that we will be able to rapidly replace that revenue source, which would be harmful to our financial results.. Risks Related to Our Industry and Competition. Competition in our markets may lead to reduced average selling prices of our products, reduced sales of our products or gross margins.. The non-volatile memory market is competitive and has been characterized by rapid price erosion, manufacturing capacity constraints and limited product availability. Average selling prices in the non-volatile memory market generally, and for our products in particular, have fluctuated significantly over the life of each product and, over the long term, the average selling price of each product has tended to decline. Declines in average selling prices for our products, if not offset by reductions in the cost of producing those products or by sales of new products with higher gross margins, would decrease our overall gross margins, could cause a negative adjustment to the value of our inventories and could materially and adversely affect our operating results.. We compete with major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future. Our more mature products, such as serial and parallel EEPROM devices, compete on the basis of price, product availability and customer service. Principal competitors for our EEPROM products currently include Atmel Corporation, STMicroelectronics N.V. and Microchip Technology Incorporated. Principal competitors for our analog/mixed-signal products include Fairchild Semiconductor International, Inc., Intersil Corporation, Linear Technology Corporation, Maxim Integrated Products, National Semiconductor and Texas Instruments Incorporated.. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical in nature, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate.. We operate in a highly cyclical industry that has been subject to significant economic downturns often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles and declines in general economic conditions. During such downturns, we experience reduced product demand and production overcapacity, which result in competitive pricing pressures leading to accelerated erosion of average selling prices and reduced gross margins. These downturns may occur for extended periods. Accordingly, we may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in operating results.. Our continued success depends in large part on the continued growth of various electronics industries that use semiconductors. We attempt to identify changes in market conditions as soon as possible; however, market dynamics make our prediction of and timely reaction to such events difficult. Our business could be harmed in the future by additional cyclical downturns in the semiconductor industry or by slower growth by any of the markets served by our end customers' products.. 21. Table of Contents. If our products fail to keep pace with the rapid changes in the semiconductor industry, we could lose customers and revenues.. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing customer demand, over or under utilization of manufacturing capacity and price fluctuations. To compete successfully, we must introduce new products in a timely manner at competitive price, quality and performance levels. In particular, our future success will depend on our ability to develop and implement new design and process technologies which enable us to reduce product costs. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by delays in developing new products, achievement of volume production and market acceptance of new products, successful completion of technology transitions of our existing products to new process geometries or foundries with acceptable yields and reliability.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. Our business may be harmed if we fail to protect our proprietary technology.. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. As of April 27, 2008, we had 29 patents granted, 17 applications pending in the United States and 18 patent applications pending in other countries. Subsequent to April 27, 2008, one of our patents expired. The expiration dates of our patents range from August 2008 to December 2026. We intend to seek further United States and international patents on our technology. However, we cannot be certain that patents will be issued from any of our pending applications, that patents will be issued in all countries where our products can be sold or that any issued patents will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage. Our competitors may also be able to design around our patents. The laws of some countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States, increasing the possibility of piracy of our technology and products. Although we intend to vigorously defend our intellectual property rights, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our technology. Our competitors may also independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology.. Our ability to produce our products may suffer if someone claims we infringe on their intellectual property.. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions, which have resulted in significant and often protracted and expensive litigation. In addition, it is typical for companies in the industry to receive notices from time to time that allege infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights. We may receive other notices or become a party to other proceedings alleging our infringement of patents or intellectual property rights in the future. If it is necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses under such patents or other intellectual property rights. However, we cannot be certain that licenses will be offered or that we would find the terms of licenses that are offered acceptable or commercially reasonable. Our failure to obtain a license from a third party for technology used by us could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend the manufacture of the affected products. Furthermore, we may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Litigation by or against us could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our technical personnel and management, whether or not the litigation results in a favorable resolution. In the event of an adverse result in any litigation, we could be required to:. <U+0095>    pay substantial damages as well as legal fees;. <U+0095>    pay amounts to indemnify our customers;. <U+0095>    stop the manufacture and sale of the infringing products;. <U+0095>    expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology;. <U+0095>    discontinue the use of certain processes; or. <U+0095>    obtain licenses to the technology.. 22. Table of Contents. We may be unsuccessful in developing non-infringing products or negotiating licenses with reasonable terms, or at all. These problems might not be resolved in time to avoid harming our results of operations. If any third party makes a successful claim against our customers or us and a license is not made available to us on commercially reasonable terms, our business could be harmed.. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we have wrongfully used the alleged trade secrets of our employees' former employers.. Many of our employees were previously employed at other companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although we have no current or pending claims against us, we may be subject to claims that we have relied on information that these employees have inadvertently, or otherwise, disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages and incurring legal fees, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to develop new products, which could severely harm our business. Even if we are successful, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management.. We may not be able to expand our proprietary technology if we do not acquire rights to use key technologies, consummate potential acquisitions or investments or successfully integrate them with our business.. To expand our proprietary technologies, we may acquire or make investments in complementary businesses, technologies or products if appropriate opportunities arise. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition or investment candidates at reasonable prices or on reasonable terms or consummate transactions with such candidates, the failure of which could slow our growth. We may also have difficulty in acquiring licenses to use proprietary technologies of third parties to expand our product lines. We may have difficulty integrating the acquired products, personnel or technologies of any acquisition we might make. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, limit our future growth, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses.. Risks Related to Our Stock. Our stock is subject to substantial price and volume fluctuations due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, and those fluctuations may prevent our stockholders from reselling our common stock at a profit.. The trading price of our common stock has in the past been and could in the future be subject to significant fluctuations in response to:. <U+0095>    variations in our results of operations;. <U+0095>    announcements of technological innovations or new products by us, our customers or competitors;. <U+0095>    our failure to achieve the operating results anticipated by analysts or investors;. <U+0095>    sales or the perception in the market of possible sales of a large number of shares of our common stock by our directors, officers, employees or principal stockholders;. <U+0095>    general economic conditions;. <U+0095>    international political, socioeconomic and financial instability, including instability associated with military action in Afghanistan, Iraq or other conflicts;. <U+0095>    releases or reports by or changes in security analysts' recommendations; and. <U+0095>    developments or disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights or other events.. 23. Table of Contents. If our net revenues and results of operations are below the expectations of investors, significant fluctuations in the market price of our common stock could occur. Furthermore, because our stock generally trades at relatively low volumes, any sudden increases in trading volumes can cause significant volatility in the stock price. In addition, the securities markets have, from time to time, experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market prices for high technology companies and often are unrelated and disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, may negatively affect the market price of our common stock.. Our charter documents, Delaware law and our stockholder rights plan contain provisions that may inhibit potential acquisition bids, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, discourage merger offers or prevent changes in our management.. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of the shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. If we issue any of these shares of preferred stock in the future, the rights of shareholders of our common stock may be negatively affected. If we issue preferred stock, a change of control of our company could be delayed, deferred or prevented. We have no current plans to issue shares of preferred stock. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law restricts certain business combinations with any \"interested stockholder\" as defined by that statute. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain certain other provisions that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control. These provisions include:. <U+0095>    the classification of our board so that only a portion of our directors are elected each year and each director serves a three year term;. <U+0095>    the elimination of actions by written consent of stockholders;. <U+0095>    the condition that our directors may only be removed for cause; and. <U+0095>    the establishment of an advance notice procedure and a minimum holding requirement for stockholder proposals and director nominations to be acted upon at annual meetings of the stockholders.. In December 2006, our board of directors adopted a stockholder rights plan with a term of ten years which will expire in December 2016. Under this plan, we issued a dividend of one right for each share of our common stock. Each right initially entitles stockholders to purchase one one-thousandth of a share of our preferred stock for $18.00. However, the rights are not immediately exercisable. If a person or group acquires, or announces a tender or exchange offer that would result in the acquisition of 15% of our common stock, unless the rights are redeemed by us for $0.01 per right, the rights will become exercisable by all rights holders, except the acquiring person or group, for shares of our common stock or the stock of the third party acquirer having a value of twice the right's then-current exercise price.. These provisions are designed to encourage potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and give our board of directors an opportunity to consider various alternatives to increase stockholder value. These provisions are also intended to discourage certain tactics that may be used in proxy contests. However, the potential issuance of preferred stock, our charter and bylaw provisions, the restrictions in Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law and our stockholder rights plan could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control, which may adversely affect the market price of our stock. These provisions and plans may also have the effect of preventing changes in our management or board of directors.. We may be the subject of securities class action litigation due to future stock price volatility.. In the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have often initiated securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. The company maintains directors and. 24. Table of Contents. officers insurance to mitigate the impact of potential claims. However, if any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. The lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management."
