[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business involves a number of risks and uncertainties. You should carefully consider the following risks, together with the information provided elsewhere in this Annual Report. The items described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks that are currently unknown to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial may also impair our business or adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.. We operate in an industry that is currently experiencing a prolonged and significant downturn. Beginning in mid-1999, the manufactured housing industry experienced a prolonged and significant downturn. This downturn resulted in part from the fact that, beginning in 1999, consumer lenders in the sector began to tighten underwriting standards and curtailed credit availability in response to higher than anticipated rates of loan defaults and significant losses upon the repossession and resale of the manufactured homes securing defaulted loans. From 2004 to 2007, the industry's downturn was exacerbated by the aggressive financing methods available to customers of developers and marketers of standard site-built homes, which had the effect of diverting potential manufactured housing buyers to more expensive site-built homes. Beginning in 2008, the global credit crisis and general deterioration of economic conditions have extended the depressed market conditions in which our industry operates. These factors have resulted in low wholesale shipment levels and underutilized manufacturing and retail locations. However, while the industry continues to operate at generally low levels, industry shipment numbers have been increasing over the past eight years.. While there has been modest growth in our industry, the availability of consumer financing for the retail purchase of manufactured homes continues to be constrained. Restrictive underwriting guidelines, irregular appraisal processes, higher interest rates compared to site-built homes, regulatory burdens, a limited number of institutional lending to manufactured home buyers and limited secondary market availability for manufactured home loans are significant constraints to industry growth. We are working directly with other industry participants to broaden the market for manufactured home loans. However, if our attempts are ineffective, we may be required to take steps to mitigate the unfavorable industry conditions, such as the closure of facilities or consolidation of existing operations. These steps could impair our ability to conduct our business in a manner consistent with past practice and could make it more difficult for us to expand our operations if and when industry conditions improve. Furthermore, some of these steps could lead to fixed asset, goodwill or other impairment charges.. We may not be able to successfully integrate past acquisitions, including the recent acquisition of Lexington Homes, or any future acquisition to attain the anticipated benefits. Past acquisitions may adversely impact the Company's liquidity. On April 3, 2017, the Company purchased Lexington Homes, which operates a manufacturing facility in Lexington, Mississippi. This transaction provides additional home production capabilities and increased distribution into new Southern markets.. We may consider other strategic acquisitions if such opportunities arise. Prior acquisitions and any other acquisitions that we may consider in the future involve a number of risks, including the diversion of our management's attention from our existing business for those transactions that we complete, or possible adverse effects on our operating results during the integration process and on our liquidity. In addition, we may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage the operations or employees of past acquisitions, Lexington Homes or potential future acquisitions. We also may not be able to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, which may lead to financial losses.. 15. Table of Contents. Our involvement in vertically integrated lines of business, including manufactured housing consumer finance, commercial finance and insurance, exposes the Company to certain risks. CountryPlace offers conforming mortgages, non-conforming mortgages and home-only loans to purchasers of factory-built homes sold by Company-owned retail sales centers and independent retailers, builders, communities and developers. CountryPlace is an approved seller/servicer with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, is approved by HUD to originate FHA-insured mortgages under its Direct Endorsement program and is approved to issue Ginnie Mae mortgage-backed securities. Most loans originated through CountryPlace are sold to investors. CountryPlace also provides various loan servicing functions for non-affiliated entities under contract. CountryPlace has expanded its home-only lending programs, partially with the support of independent third party financiers. Home-only loans originated will either be sold outright or grouped and sold as a pool of loans or held for investment.. If CountryPlace's customers are unable to repay their loans, CountryPlace may be adversely affected. CountryPlace makes loans to borrowers that it believes are creditworthy based on its underwriting guidelines. However, the ability of these customers to repay their loans may be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to: national, regional and local economic conditions; changes or weakness in specific industry segments; natural hazard risks affecting the region in which the borrower resides; and employment, financial or unexpected life circumstances.. If customers do not repay their loans, CountryPlace may repossess or foreclose on the secured property in order to liquidate its loan collateral and minimize losses. The homes and land securing the loans are subject to fluctuating market values, and proceeds realized from liquidating repossessed or foreclosed property are highly susceptible to adverse movements in collateral values. Home price depreciation and elevated levels of unemployment may result in additional defaults and exacerbate actual loss severities upon collateral liquidation beyond those normally experienced by CountryPlace.. Some of the loans CountryPlace has originated or may originate in the future may not have a liquid market, or the market may contract rapidly and the loans may become illiquid. Although CountryPlace offers loan products and prices its loans at levels that it believes are marketable at the time of credit application approval, market conditions for its loans may deteriorate rapidly and significantly. CountryPlace's ability to respond to changing market conditions is bound by credit approval and funding commitments it makes in advance of loan completion. In this environment, it is difficult to predict the types of loan products and characteristics that may be susceptible to future market curtailments and tailor our loan offerings accordingly. As a result, no assurances can be given that the market value of our loans will not decline in the future, or that a market will continue to exist for loan products.. CountryPlace sells loans through GSE-related programs and whole-loan purchasers and finances certain loans with long-term credit facilities secured by the respective loans. In connection with these activities, CountryPlace provides to the GSEs, whole-loan purchasers and lenders representations and warranties related to the loans sold or financed. These representations and warranties generally relate to the ownership of the loans, the validity of the liens securing the loans, the loans' compliance with the criteria for inclusion in the sale transactions, including compliance with underwriting standards or loan criteria established by buyers and CountryPlace's ability to deliver documentation in compliance with applicable laws. Generally, representations and warranties may be enforced at any time over the life of the loan. Upon a breach of a representation, CountryPlace may be required to repurchase the loan or to indemnify a party for incurred losses. Repurchase demands and claims for indemnification payments are reviewed on a loan-by-loan basis to validate if there has been a breach requiring repurchase or indemnification. CountryPlace manages the risk of repurchase through underwriting and quality assurance practices and by servicing the mortgage loans to investor standards. CountryPlace maintains a reserve for these contingent repurchase and indemnification obligations.. Standard Casualty and Standard Insurance Agency specialize in the manufactured housing industry, primarily serving the Texas, Arizona, New Mexico and Georgia markets. In Texas, the policies are written through one affiliated managing general agent, which produces all premiums through local agents, most of which are manufactured home retailers. All insurance policies outside the state of Texas are written on a direct basis through local agents. Property and casualty insurance companies are subject to certain risk-based capital requirements as specified by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. Under those requirements, the amount of capital and surplus maintained by a property and casualty insurance company is determined based on its various risk factors.. 16. Table of Contents. Certain of Standard Casualty's premiums and benefits are assumed from and ceded to other insurance companies under various reinsurance agreements. The ceded reinsurance agreements provide Standard Casualty with increased capacity to write larger risks. Standard Casualty remains obligated for amounts ceded in the event that the reinsurers do not meet their obligations. Substantially all of Standard Casualty's assumed reinsurance is with one entity. Further, Standard Casualty's policies in force may be subject to numerous risks, including geographic concentration, adverse selection, home deterioration, unusual weather events, and regulation. Although claim amounts are recoverable by Standard Casualty through reinsurance for catastrophic losses up to policy maximums, significant losses may be realized and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Tightened credit standards, curtailed lending activity by home-only lenders and increased government lending regulations have contributed to a constrained consumer financing market. Consumers who buy our manufactured homes have historically secured retail financing from third-party lenders. Home-only financing is at times more difficult to obtain than financing for site-built homes. The availability, terms and costs of retail financing depend on the lending practices of financial institutions, governmental policies and economic and other conditions, all of which are beyond our control.. Since 1999, home-only lenders have tightened the credit underwriting standards for loans to purchase manufactured homes, which has reduced lending volumes and negatively impacted our revenue. Most of the national lenders who have historically provided home-only loans have exited the manufactured housing sector of the home loan industry. Retail sales of manufactured housing could be adversely affected if remaining retail lenders curtail industry lending activities or exit the industry altogether.. Changes in laws or other events that adversely affect liquidity in the secondary mortgage market could hurt our business. The GSEs and the FHA play significant roles in insuring or purchasing home mortgages and creating or insuring investment securities that are either sold to investors or held in their portfolios. These organizations provide significant liquidity to the secondary market. Any new federal laws or regulations that restrict or curtail their activities, or any other events or conditions that alter the roles of these organizations in the housing finance market could affect the ability of our customers to obtain mortgage loans or could increase mortgage interest rates, fees, and credit standards, which could reduce demand for our homes and/or the loans that we originate and adversely affect our results of operations.. Overall, the rules established under Dodd-Frank have caused some lenders to curtail underwriting such loans, and some investors are reluctant to own or participate in owning such loans because of the uncertainty of potential litigation and other costs. As a result, some prospective buyers of manufactured homes may be unable to secure the financing necessary to complete purchases. In addition, compliance with the law and ongoing rule implementation has caused lenders to incur additional costs to implement new processes, procedures, controls and infrastructure required to comply with the regulations. Compliance may constrain lenders' ability to profitably price certain loans. Failure to comply with these regulations, changes in these or other regulations, or the imposition of additional regulations, could affect our earnings, limit our access to capital and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. For further information, see Government Regulation in Part 1 of this Annual Report.. 17. Table of Contents. The availability of wholesale financing for industry retailers is limited due to a reduced number of floor plan lenders and reduced lending limits. Manufactured housing retailers generally finance their inventory purchases with wholesale floor plan financing provided by lending institutions. The availability of wholesale financing is significantly affected by the number of floor plan lenders and their lending limits. Since 1999, a substantial number of wholesale lenders have exited the industry or curtailed their floor plan operations. As a result, the Company's independent retailers have relied primarily on 21st Mortgage Corporation and smaller national and regional lending institutions that have specialized in providing wholesale floor plan financing to manufactured housing retailers. Floor plan financing providers could further reduce their levels of floor plan lending. Reduced availability of floor plan lending negatively affects the inventory levels of our independent retailers, the number of retail sales center locations and related wholesale demand, and adversely affects the availability of and access to capital on an ongoing basis.. Our participation in certain financing programs for the purchase of our products by industry distributors and consumers may expose us to additional risk of credit loss, which could adversely impact the Company's liquidity and results of operations. We are exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness of certain independent retailers, builders, developers, community owners, inventory financing partners and home buyers, many of whom may be adversely affected by the volatile conditions in the economy and financial markets. These conditions could result in financial instability or other adverse effects. The consequences of such adverse effects could include delinquencies by customers who purchase our product under special financing initiatives, and deterioration of collateral values. In addition, we may incur losses if our collateral cannot be recovered or liquidated at prices sufficient to recover recorded commercial loan notes receivable balances. The realization of any of these factors may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability and financial condition.. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by significant warranty and construction defect claims on factory-built housing. In the ordinary course of our business, we are subject to home warranty and construction defect claims. We record a reserve for estimated future warranty costs relating to homes sold, based upon our assessment of historical experience factors. Construction defect claims may arise during a significant period of time after product completion. Although we maintain general liability insurance and reserves for such claims, based on our assessments, which to date have been adequate, there can be no assurance that warranty and construction defect claims will remain at current levels or that such reserves will continue to be adequate. A large number of warranty and construction defect claims exceeding our current levels could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We have contingent repurchase obligations related to wholesale financing provided to industry retailers. In accordance with customary business practice in the manufactured housing industry, we have entered into repurchase agreements with various financial institutions and other credit sources who provide floor plan financing to industry retailers, which provide that we will be obligated, under certain circumstances, to repurchase homes sold to retailers in the event of a default by a retailer in its obligation to such credit sources. Under these agreements, we have agreed to repurchase homes at declining prices over the term of the agreement (which in most cases is 18 to 36 months). Our obligation under these repurchase agreements ceases upon the purchase of the home by the retail customer. The maximum amount of our contingent obligations under such repurchase agreements was approximately $55.6 million as of March 31, 2018, before reduction for the resale value of the homes. We may be required to honor contingent repurchase obligations in the future and may incur additional expense as a consequence of these repurchase agreements.. 18. Table of Contents. Our operating results could be affected by market forces and declining housing demand. As a participant in the homebuilding industry, we are subject to market forces beyond our control. These market forces include employment levels, employment growth, interest rates, consumer confidence, inflation, land availability and development costs, apartment and rental housing vacancy levels, inflation, deflation and the health of the general economy. Unfavorable changes in any of the above factors or other issues could have an adverse effect on our revenue and earnings.. We have incurred net losses in certain prior periods and there can be no assurance that we will generate income in the future. Since becoming a stand-alone public company, we have generated net income each complete fiscal year, except for fiscal year 2010, in which we incurred net losses attributable in substantial part to the downturn affecting the manufactured housing industry, which is discussed in detail above. The likelihood that we will generate net income in the future must be considered in light of the difficulties facing the manufactured housing industry as a whole, economic conditions, the competitive environment in which we operate and the other risks and uncertainties discussed in this section of the Annual Report. There can be no assurance that we will generate net income in the future.. A write-off of all or part of our goodwill could adversely affect our operating results and net worth. As of March 31, 2018, 11% of our total assets consisted of goodwill, all of which is attributable to our factory-built housing operations. In accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") Accounting Standards Codification (\"ASC\") 350, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (\"ASC 350\"), we test goodwill annually for impairment. If goodwill has become impaired, we charge the impairment as an expense in the period in which the impairment occurred. See Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies\" and Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our goodwill could be impaired if developments affecting our manufacturing operations or the markets in which we produce manufactured homes lead us to conclude that the cash flows we expect to derive from our manufacturing operations will be substantially reduced. A write off of all or part of our goodwill could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. The cyclical and seasonal nature of the manufactured housing industry causes our revenues and operating results to fluctuate, and we expect this cyclicality and seasonality to continue in the future. The manufactured housing industry is highly cyclical and seasonal and is influenced by many national and regional economic and demographic factors, including the availability of consumer financing for home buyers, the availability of wholesale financing for retailers, seasonality of demand, consumer confidence, interest rates, demographic and employment trends, income levels, housing demand, general economic conditions, including inflation and recessions, and the availability of suitable home sites.. As a result of the foregoing economic, demographic and other factors, our revenues and operating results fluctuate, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. Moreover, we have experienced and could again experience operating losses during cyclical downturns in the manufactured housing market.. Our liquidity and ability to raise capital may be limited. We may need to obtain debt or additional equity financing in the future. The Company has securitized bond debt outstanding with call dates in January and July 2019. It is anticipated that we will purchase or refinance these facilities prior to their call dates. The type, timing and terms of the financing selected by us will depend on, among other things, our cash needs, the availability of other financing sources and prevailing conditions in the financial markets. There can be no assurance that any of these sources will be available to us at any time or that they will be available on satisfactory terms.. 19. Table of Contents. The manufactured housing industry is highly competitive, and increased competition may result in lower revenue. The manufactured housing industry is highly competitive. Competition at both the manufacturing and retail levels is based upon several factors, including price, product features, reputation for service and quality, merchandising, terms of retailer promotional programs and the terms of retail customer financing. Numerous companies produce manufactured homes in our markets. In addition, our homes compete with repossessed homes that are offered for sale in our markets. Certain of our manufacturing competitors also have their own retail distribution systems and consumer finance and insurance operations. In addition, there are many independent manufactured housing retail locations in most areas where we have retail operations. We believe that where wholesale floor plan financing is available, it is relatively easy for new retailers to enter into our markets as competitors. In addition, our products compete with other forms of low- to moderate-cost housing, including new and existing site-built homes, apartments, townhouses and condominiums. If we are unable to compete effectively in this environment, our factory-built housing revenue could be reduced.. If we are unable to establish or maintain relationships with independent distributors who sell our homes, our revenue could decline. During fiscal year 2018, approximately 83% of our wholesale sales of manufactured homes were to independent distributors. As is common in the industry, independent distributors may also sell homes produced by competing manufacturers. We may not be able to establish relationships with new independent distributors or maintain good relationships with independent distributors that sell our homes. Even if we do establish and maintain relationships with independent distributors, these distributors are not obligated to sell our homes exclusively and may choose to sell our competitors' homes instead. The independent distributors with whom we have relationships can cancel these relationships on short notice. In addition, these distributors may not remain financially solvent, as they are subject to industry, economic, demographic and seasonal trends similar to those faced by us. If we do not establish and maintain relationships with solvent independent distributors in one or more of our markets, revenue in those markets could decline.. Our business and operations are concentrated in certain geographic regions, which could be impacted by market declines. Our operations are concentrated in certain states, most notably Texas, California, Florida, Arizona and Oregon. Due to the concentrated nature of our operations, there could be instances where these regions are negatively impacted by economic, natural or population changes that could, in turn, negatively impact the results of the business, more than other companies that are more geographically dispersed.. The Company operates 20 homebuilding facilities located in the Northwest, Southwest, South, Southeast, Midwest and Mid-Atlantic regions. We have a significant presence in Texas with factories in the cities of Austin, Ft. Worth, Seguin and Waco. Further, of our 39 Company-owned sales centers, 31 are located in Texas.. Loan contracts secured by collateral that is geographically concentrated could experience higher rates of delinquencies, default and foreclosure losses than loan contracts secured by collateral that is more geographically dispersed. CountryPlace has loan contracts secured by factory-built homes located in 29 states, including Texas, Florida, New Mexico and Arizona.. Standard Casualty and Standard Insurance Agency specialize in the manufactured housing industry, primarily serving the Texas, Arizona, New Mexico and Georgia markets.. A decline in the economic conditions in the United States and especially the economies of Texas, California, Florida, Arizona and/or Oregon could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. 20. Table of Contents. Our results of operations can be adversely affected by labor shortages and the pricing and availability of raw materials. The homebuilding industry has from time to time experienced labor shortages and other labor related issues. A number of factors may adversely affect the labor force available to us and our subcontractors in one or more of our markets, including high employment levels, construction market conditions and government regulation, which include laws and regulations related to workers' health and safety, wage and hour practices and immigration. An overall labor shortage or a lack of skilled or unskilled labor could cause significant increases in costs or delays in construction of homes, which could have a material adverse effect upon our revenue and results of operations.. Our results of operations can be affected by the pricing and availability of raw materials. Although we attempt to increase the sales prices of our homes in response to higher materials costs, such increases may lag behind the escalation of materials costs. Sudden increases in price and lack of availability of raw materials can be caused by natural disaster, regulation or other market forces, as has occurred in recent years. Although we have not experienced any production halts, severe or prolonged shortages of some of our most important building materials, which include wood and wood products, gypsum wallboard, steel, insulation, and other petroleum-based products, have occurred. There can be no assurance that sufficient supplies of these and other raw materials will continue to be available to us.. If the manufactured housing industry is not able to secure favorable local zoning ordinances, our revenue could decline and our business could be adversely affected. Manufactured housing communities and individual home placements are subject to local zoning ordinances and other local regulations relating to utility service and construction of roadways. In the past, property owners often have resisted the adoption of zoning ordinances permitting the location of manufactured homes in residential areas, which we believe has restricted the growth of the industry. Manufactured homes may not achieve widespread acceptance and localities may not adopt zoning ordinances permitting the development of manufactured home communities. If the manufactured housing industry is unable to secure favorable local zoning ordinances, our revenue could decline and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. The loss of any of our executive officers could reduce our ability to execute our business strategy and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are dependent to a significant extent upon the efforts of our executive officers. The loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers could impair our ability to execute our business strategy and have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently have no key person life or other insurance for our executive officers.. Certain provisions of our organizational documents could delay or make more difficult a change in control of our Company. Certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws could delay or make more difficult transactions involving a change of control of our Company, and may have the effect of entrenching our current management or possibly depressing the market price of our common stock. For example, our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws authorize blank series preferred stock, establish a staggered board of directors and impose certain procedural and other requirements for stockholder proposals. Furthermore, the fact that income taxes could be imposed as a result of ownership changes occurring in conjunction with a distribution may have the effect of delaying or making more difficult certain transactions involving a change of control of our Company.. 21. Table of Contents. Volatility of stock price. The price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: the perceived prospects of our business and the manufactured housing industry as a whole; differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors and analysts; changes in analysts' recommendations or projections; changes affecting the availability of financing in the wholesale and consumer lending markets; actions or announcements by competitors; changes in the regulatory environment in which we operate; significant sales of shares by a principal stockholder; actions taken by stockholders that may be contrary to Board of Director recommendations; and changes in general economic or market conditions. In addition, stock markets generally experience significant price and volume volatility from time to time which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to our performance.. Deterioration in economic conditions and turmoil in financial markets could reduce our earnings and financial condition. Deterioration in global, national, regional or local economic conditions and turmoil in financial markets could have a negative impact on our business. Among other things, unfavorable changes in employment levels, job growth, consumer confidence and income, inflation, deflation, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates may further reduce demand for our products, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Unprecedented contraction in the credit markets and the financial services industry have occurred in recent years, characterized by the bankruptcy, failure or consolidation of various financial institutions and extraordinary intervention from the federal government. These factors could have an adverse effect on the availability of financing to our customers, causing our revenues to decline.. The cost of operations could be adversely impacted by increased costs of healthcare benefits provided to employees. Enacted in 2010, the Health Reform Law reforms, among other things, certain aspects of health insurance. The Health Reform Law could continue to increase our healthcare costs, adversely impacting the Company's earnings.. A prolonged delay by Congress and the President to approve budgets or continuing appropriation resolutions to facilitate the operations of the federal government could delay the completion of home sales and/or cause cancellations, and thereby negatively impact our deliveries and revenues. Congress and the President may not timely approve budgets or appropriation legislation to facilitate the operations of the federal government. As a result, many federal agencies have historically and may again cease or curtail some activities. The affected activities include Internal Revenue Service verification of loan applicants' tax return information and approvals by the FHA and other government agencies to fund or insure mortgage loans under programs that these agencies operate. As a number of our home buyers use these programs to obtain financing to purchase our homes, and many lenders, including CountryPlace, require ongoing coordination with these and other governmental entities to originate home loans, a prolonged delay in the performance of their activities could prevent prospective qualified buyers of our homes from obtaining the loans they need to complete such purchases, which could lead to delays or cancellations of home sales. These and other affected governmental bodies could cause interruptions in various aspects of our business and investments. Depending on the length of disruption, such factors could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements.. 22. Table of Contents. Information technology failures or data security breaches could harm our business. We use enterprise-grade information technology and computer resources to carry out important operational activities and to maintain our business records. Although secured in commercial data centers, our computer systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches (through cyber-attacks from computer hackers and sophisticated organizations), catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes and human error. Given the unpredictability of the timing, nature and scope of information technology disruptions, if our computer systems and our backup systems are damaged, breached, or cease to function properly, we could potentially be subject to production downtimes, operational delays, the compromising of confidential or otherwise protected information (including information about our home buyers and business partners), destruction or corruption of data, security breaches, other manipulation or improper use of our systems and networks or financial losses from remedial actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition or results of operations.. We are subject to extensive regulation affecting the production and sale of manufactured housing, which could adversely affect our profitability. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting the production and sale of manufactured housing. Please refer to the section above under the heading \"Government Regulation\" for a description of many of these laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with such laws and regulations could expose us to a wide variety of sanctions, including closing one or more manufacturing facilities. Regulatory matters affecting our operations are under regular review by governmental bodies and we cannot predict what effect, if any, new laws and regulations would have on us or the manufactured housing industry. Failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations or the passage in the future of new and more stringent laws, may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations."
