[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.. The following factors may affect our actual operating and financial results and could cause results to differ materially from those in any forward-looking statements. You should carefully consider the following information.. We may be more sensitive to revenue fluctuations than other companies, which could result in fluctuations in the market price of our common stock.. A substantial majority of our operating expenses, such as personnel and related costs and occupancy costs, are relatively fixed in the short term. As a result, we may not be able to quickly reduce costs in response to any decrease in revenue. This factor could cause our quarterly results to be lower than expectations of securities analysts and stockholders, which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock.. Payments on accounts receivable may be slower than expected, or amounts due on receivables or notes may not be fully collectible.. Professional services firms often experience higher average accounts receivable days outstanding compared to many other industries, which may be magnified if the general economy worsens. If our collections become slower, our liquidity may be adversely impacted. We monitor the aging of receivables regularly and make assessments of the ability of customers to pay amounts due. We provide for potential bad debts each month and recognize additional reserves against bad debts as we deem it appropriate. Notwithstanding these measures, our customers may face unexpected circumstances that adversely impact their ability to pay their trade receivables or note obligations to us and we may face unexpected losses as a result.. We are dependent on the services of our executive officers and other key employees, the loss of any of whom may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our success depends in large part upon the abilities and continued services of our executive officers and other key employees, such as our business unit presidents. In the course of business operations, employees may resign and seek employment elsewhere. Certain principal employees, however, are bound in writing to agreements containing non-compete and other restrictive covenants barring competitive employment, client acceptance, and solicitation of employees for a period of between two and ten years following their resignation. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain the services of our key personnel. If we cannot retain the services of key personnel, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we generally have contractual arrangements with key personnel that contain restrictive covenants, courts are at times reluctant to enforce such covenants. In addition, many of our executive officers and other key personnel are either participants in our stock option plan or holders of a significant amount of our common stock. We believe that these interests provide additional incentives for these key employees to remain with us. In order to support our growth, we intend to continue to effectively recruit, hire, train and retain additional qualified management personnel. Our inability to attract and retain necessary personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Restrictions imposed by independence requirements and conflict of interest rules may limit our ability to provide services to clients of the attest firms with which we have contractual relationships and the ability of such attest firms to provide attestation services to our clients.. Restrictions imposed by independence requirements and state accountancy laws and regulations preclude us from rendering audit and other attest services (other than internal audit services). As such, we and our subsidiaries maintain joint-referral relationships and ASAs with independent licensed CPA firms under which audit and other attest services may be provided to our clients by such CPA firms. The CPA firms are owned by licensed CPAs, a vast majority of whom are employed by us.. Under these ASAs, we provide a range of services to the CPA firms, including: administrative functions such as office management, bookkeeping, and accounting; preparing marketing and promotion materials; providing office space, computer equipment, systems support and administrative and professional staff. Services are performed in exchange for a fee. Fees earned by us under the ASAs are recorded as revenue in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. In the event that accounts receivable and unbilled work in process become uncollectible by the CPA firms, the service fee due to us is typically reduced on a proportional basis.. 9. With respect to CPA firm clients that are required to file audited financial statements with the SEC, the SEC staff views us and the CPA firms with which we have contractual relationships as a single entity in applying independence rules established by the accountancy regulators and the SEC. Accordingly, we do not hold any financial interest in, nor do we enter into any business relationship with, an SEC-reporting attest client that the CPA firm performing an audit could not maintain; further, we do not sell any non-audit services to an SEC-reporting attest client that the CPA firm performing an audit could not sell under the auditor independence limitations set out in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other professional accountancy independence standards. SEC staff informed us that independence rules that apply to clients that receive attest services under SEC and Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (\"PCAOB\") standards from such CPA firms would prohibit such clients from holding any common stock of CBIZ. However, applicable professional standards generally permit us to provide additional services to privately-held companies, in addition to those services which may be provided to SEC-reporting attest clients of a CPA firm. We and the CPA firms have implemented policies and procedures designed to enable us to maintain independence and freedom from conflicts of interest in accordance with applicable standards. Given the pre-existing limits set by us on our relationships with SEC-reporting attest clients of associated CPA firms, and the limited number and size of such clients, the imposition of independence limitations under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, SEC rule or interpretation, or PCAOB standards do not and are not expected to materially affect our revenues.. There can be no assurance that following the policies and procedures implemented by us and the CPA firms will enable us and the CPA firms to avoid circumstances that would cause us and them to lack independence from an SEC-reporting attest client; nor can there be any assurance that state, U.S. Government Accountability Office or U.S. Department Of Labor accountancy authorities will not impose additional restrictions on the profession. To the extent that the CPA firms for whom we provide administrative and other services are affected, we may experience a decline in fee revenue from these businesses as well as expenses related to addressing independence concerns. To date, revenues derived from providing services in connection with attestation engagements of the attest firms performed for SEC-reporting clients have not been material.. Our goodwill and other intangible assets could become impaired, which could lead to material non-cash charges against earnings.. At December 31, 2017, the net carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets totaled $528.4 million and $84.8 million, respectively. In accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") Accounting Standards Codification (\"ASC\") Topic 350, \"Intangibles  -  Goodwill and Other\", we assess these assets, including client lists, to determine if there is any indication of impairment. Significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, adverse changes resulting from new governmental regulations, divestitures and sustained market capitalization declines may result in recognition of impairments. Any impairment of goodwill or intangible assets would result in a non-cash charge against current earnings, which could lead to a material impact on our results of operations and statements of financial position.. Certain liabilities resulting from acquisitions are estimated and could lead to a material impact on earnings.. Through our acquisition activities, we record liabilities for estimated future contingent earnout payments. The fair value of these liabilities is assessed on a quarterly basis and changes in assumptions used to determine the amount of the liability could lead to an adjustment that may have a material impact, favorable or unfavorable, on our results of operations.. Governmental regulations and interpretations are subject to changes, which could have a material adverse effect on revenue.. Laws and regulations could result in changes in the amount or the type of business services required by businesses and individuals. We cannot be sure that future laws and regulations will provide the same or similar opportunities for us to provide business consulting and management services to businesses and individuals. State insurance regulators have conducted inquiries to clarify the nature of compensation arrangements within the insurance brokerage industry. Future regulatory actions or laws, including the Affordable Care Act, may limit or eliminate our ability to enhance revenue through all current compensation arrangements and may result in a diminution of future insurance brokerage revenue from these sources. Accordingly, our ability to continue to operate in some states may depend on our flexibility to modify our operational structure in response to these changes in regulations.. Changes in the United States healthcare environment, including new healthcare legislation, may adversely affect the revenue and margins in our healthcare benefit businesses.. Our employee benefits business, specifically our group health consulting and brokerage businesses, receives commissions for brokering employer-sponsored healthcare policies with insurance carriers on behalf of the client. In many cases, these commissions consist of a ratable portion of the insurance premiums on those policies, based upon a sliding scale pertaining to the dollar volume of premiums and/or the number of participants in the plan.. 10. Changes in the healthcare environment, including, but not limited to, any legislated changes in the United States' national healthcare system, that affect the methods by which insurance carriers remunerate brokers, could adversely impact our revenues and margins in this business. Specifically, legislation or other changes could afford our clients and their employees the ability to seek insurance coverage through other means, including, but not limited to, direct access with insurance carriers or other similar avenues, which could eliminate or adversely alter the remuneration brokers receive from insurance carriers for their services.. Higher rates of unemployment in the United States could result in a general reduction in the number of individuals with employer-sponsored healthcare coverage. This decline in employee participation in healthcare insurance plans at our clients could result in a reduction in the commissions we receive from insurance carriers for our brokerage services, which could have an adverse impact on revenues and margins in this business.. We are subject to risks relating to processing customer transactions for our payroll and other transaction processing businesses.. The high volume of client funds and data processed by us, or by our out-sourced resources abroad, in our transaction related businesses entails risks for which we may be held liable if the accuracy or timeliness of the transactions processed is not correct. In addition, related to our payroll and employee benefits businesses, we store personal information about some of our clients and their employees for which we may be liable under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act or other governmental regulations if the security of this information is breached. We could incur significant legal expense to defend any claims against us, even those claims without merit. While we carry insurance against these potential liabilities, we cannot be certain that circumstances surrounding such an error or breach of security would be entirely reimbursed through insurance coverage. We believe we have controls and procedures in place to address our fiduciary responsibility and mitigate these risks. However, if we are not successful in managing these risks, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed.. Cyber attacks or other security breaches involving our computer systems or the systems of one or more of our vendors could materially and adversely affect our business.. Our systems, like others in the payroll, retirement and financial services industries, are vulnerable to cyber security risks, and we are subject to potential disruption caused by such activities. Corporations such as ours are subject to frequent attacks on their systems. Such attacks may have various goals, from seeking confidential information to causing operational disruption. Although to date such activities have not resulted in material disruptions to our operations or, to our knowledge, a material breach of any security or confidential information, no assurance can be provided that such disruptions or breach will not occur in the future. Any significant violations of data privacy could result in the loss of business, litigation, regulatory investigations, penalties, ongoing expenses related to client credit monitoring and support, and other expenses, any of which could damage our reputation and adversely affect the growth of our business.. We are subject to risk as it relates to software that we license from third parties.. We license software from third parties, much of which is integral to our systems and our business. The licenses are generally terminable if we breach our obligations under the license agreements. If any of these relationships were terminated or if any of these parties were to cease doing business or cease to support the applications we currently utilize, we may be forced to spend significant time and money to replace the licensed software. However, we cannot assure you that the necessary replacements will be available on reasonable terms, if at all.. We could be held liable for errors and omissions.. All of our business services entail an inherent risk of malpractice and other similar claims resulting from errors and omissions. Therefore, we maintain errors and omissions insurance coverage. Although we believe that our insurance coverage is adequate, we cannot be certain that actual future claims or related legal expenses would not exceed the coverage amounts. In addition, we cannot be certain that the different insurance carriers which provide errors and omissions coverage for different lines of our business will not dispute their obligation to cover a particular claim. If we have a large claim, or a large number of claims, on our insurance, the rates for such insurance may increase, and amounts expended in defense or settlement of these claims prior to exhaustion of deductible or self-retention levels may become significant, but contractual arrangements with clients may constrain our ability to incorporate such increases into service fees. Insurance rate increases, disputes by carriers over coverage questions, payments by us within deductible or self-retention limits, as well as any underlying claims or settlement of such claims, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are not a CPA firm and we do not perform any attest services for clients. We do not maintain any ownership interest in or control over any CPA firm with which one of our subsidiaries may maintain an ASA. All of our administrative and professional staff who are provided to such CPA firms work under the sole direction, supervision and control of the particular CPA firm, and we do not control. 11. how attest work is conducted. For these reasons we do not believe we have liability to any party related to their receipt of attest services from such CPA firms. Nevertheless, from time to time we have been sued for attest work that we do not perform but which is performed by such CPA firms. While we have been successful to date in defending against such suits, it is possible that similar claims may be brought in the future. We will be required to defend against such claims, and may incur expenses related to such lawsuits and may not be successful in defending against such lawsuits. In the event that the CPA firms with which we maintain ASAs incur judgments and costs related to such suits that threaten the solvency of the CPA firms, we may incur expenditures related to such proceedings.. The future issuance of additional shares could adversely affect the price of our common stock.. Future sales or issuances of common stock, including those related to the uses described below, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and dilute the percentage ownership held by our stockholders. We have authorized 250 million shares of common stock, and have approximately 55 million shares of common stock outstanding at February 28, 2018. A substantial number of these shares have been issued in connection with acquisitions. As part of many acquisition transactions, shares are contractually restricted from sale for a one-year period, and as of February 28, 2018, approximately 0.4 million shares of our common stock were under lock-up contractual restrictions that expire by December 31, 2018. We cannot be sure when sales by holders of our stock will occur, how many shares will be sold or the effect that sales may have on the market price of our common stock.. Our principal stockholders may have substantial control over our operations.. Our stockholders that beneficially own (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the Exchange Act) significant percentages of our common stock relative to other individual stockholders may exert substantial influence over actions that require the consent of a majority of our outstanding shares, including the election of directors. Our share repurchase activities may result in increased ownership percentages of these individuals and therefore increase the influence they may exert, if they do not participate in these share repurchase transactions or otherwise dispose of their common stock.. We require a significant amount of cash for interest payments on our debt and to expand our business as planned.. At December 31, 2017, our debt consisted primarily of $178.5 million in principal amount outstanding under our $400 million unsecured credit facility (as amended the \"credit facility\"). Our debt requires us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to use for acquisitions, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes. Our ability to make interest payments on our debt, and to fund acquisitions, will depend upon our ability to generate cash in the future. Insufficient cash flow could place us at risk of default under our debt agreements or could prevent us from expanding our business as planned. Our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us under our credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to fund our other liquidity needs. Volatility in interest rates from monetary policy or economic conditions could increase expenses, cause uncertainty and impact our ability to pay interest on our indebtedness. Refer to Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk, for further information regarding interest rate risk.. Terms of our credit facility may adversely affect our ability to run our business and/or reduce stockholder returns.. The terms of our credit facility, as well as the guarantees of our subsidiaries, could impair our ability to operate our business effectively and may limit our ability to take advantage of business opportunities. For example, our credit facility may (i) restrict our ability to repurchase or redeem our capital stock or debt, or merge or consolidate with another entity; (ii) limit our ability to borrow additional funds or to obtain other financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and general corporate purposes; (iii) limit our ability to dispose of our assets, to create liens on our assets, to extend credit or to issue dividends to our stockholders; and (iv) make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions.. Our failure to satisfy covenants in our debt instruments could cause a default under those instruments.. Our debt instruments include a number of covenants relating to financial ratios and tests. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. The breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under these instruments. An event of default would permit our lenders and other debt holders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. If the lenders accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay our debt.. 12. We are reliant on information processing systems and any failure of these systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our ability to provide business services depends on our capacity to store, retrieve, process and manage significant databases, and expand and upgrade periodically our information processing capabilities. Interruption or loss of our information processing capabilities through loss of stored data, breakdown or malfunctioning of computer equipment and software systems, telecommunications failure, or damage caused by fire, tornadoes, lightning, electrical power outage, or other disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we have disaster recovery procedures in place and insurance to protect against such contingencies, we cannot be sure that insurance or these services will continue to be available, cover all our losses or compensate us for the possible loss of clients occurring during any period that we are unable to provide business services.. We may not be able to acquire and finance additional businesses which may limit our ability to pursue our business strategy.. We acquired four businesses and two client lists during 2017, and maintain a healthy pipeline of potential businesses for acquisition. Targeted acquisitions are part of our growth strategy, and it is our intention to selectively acquire businesses or client lists that are complementary to existing service offerings in our target markets. However, we cannot be certain that we will be able to continue identifying appropriate acquisition candidates and acquire them on satisfactory terms, and we cannot be assured that such acquisitions, even if completed, will perform as expected or will contribute significant synergies, revenues or profits. In addition, we may also face increased competition for acquisition opportunities, which may inhibit our ability to complete transactions on terms that are favorable to us. As discussed above, there are certain provisions under our credit facility that may limit our ability to acquire additional businesses. In the event that we are not in compliance with certain covenants as specified in our credit facility, we could be restricted from making acquisitions, restricted from borrowing funds from our credit facility for other uses, or required to pay down the outstanding balance on the line of credit. However, management believes that funds available under the credit facility, along with cash generated from operations, will be sufficient to meet our liquidity needs, including planned acquisition activity in the foreseeable future. To the extent we are unable to find suitable acquisition candidates, an important component of our growth strategy may not be realized.. The business services industry is competitive and fragmented. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted.. We face competition from a number of sources in the business services industry. Many of our competitors are large companies that may have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources. Our principal competitors include financial and management consulting firms, the consulting practices of major accounting firms, local and regional business services companies, independent contractors, the in-house or former in-house resources of our clients, as well as new entrants into our markets. We cannot assure you that, as our industry continues to evolve, additional competitors will not enter the industry or that our clients will not choose to conduct more of their business services internally or through alternative business services providers. Although we intend to monitor industry trends and respond accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to anticipate and successfully respond to such trends in a timely manner. We cannot be certain that we will be able to effectively compete against current and future competitors, or that competitive pressure will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. There is volatility in our stock price.. The market for our common stock has, from time to time, experienced price and volume fluctuations. Factors such as announcements of variations in our quarterly financial results and fluctuations in revenue, as well as the expectations of stockholders and securities analysts regarding the ability of our business to grow and achieve certain revenue or profitability targets, could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of companies such as ours. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance.. Given our levels of share-based compensation, our tax rate may vary significantly depending on our stock price.. Effective January 1, 2017, we adopted FASB Accounting Standard Update (\"ASU\") No. 2016-09, \"Compensation  -  Stock Compensation (Topic 718)  -  Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting.\" The tax effects of the accounting for share-based compensation may significantly impact our effective tax rate from period to period. In periods in which our stock price is higher than the grant date fair value of the share-based compensation vesting or exercises in that period, we will recognize excess tax benefits that will decrease our effective tax rate. For example, in 2017, the excess tax benefit recognized from share-based compensation decreased our provision for income taxes by $3.8 million and our effective tax rate by 5.2% as compared to the tax rate without such benefits. In future periods in which our stock price is lower than the grant price of the share-based compensation vesting. 13. in that period, our effective tax rate may increase. The amount and value of share-based compensation issued relative to our earnings in a particular period will also affect the magnitude of the impact of share-based compensation on our effective tax rate. These tax effects are dependent on our stock price and exercise activity, which we do not control, and a decline in our stock price could significantly increase our effective tax rate and adversely affect our financial results.. We may be subject to the actions of activist shareholders.. Our Board of Directors and management team are committed to acting in the best interest of all of our shareholders. We value constructive input from investors and regularly engage in dialogue with our shareholders regarding strategy and performance. Activist shareholders who disagree with the composition of the Board of Directors, our strategy or the way the Company is managed may seek to effect change through various strategies and channels. Responding to shareholder activism can be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our operations, and divert the attention of management and our employees from our strategic initiatives. Activist campaigns can create perceived uncertainties as to our future direction, strategy, or leadership and may result in the loss of potential business opportunities, harm our ability to attract new employees, investors, and customers, and cause our stock price to experience periods of volatility or stagnation.. Changes in accounting policies, standards, and interpretations could materially affect how we report our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. The FASB, regulatory agencies, and other bodies that establish accounting standards periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards governing the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Additionally, those bodies that establish and interpret the accounting standards (such as the FASB and the SEC) may change prior interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially affect how we record and report our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In unusual circumstances, we could be required to retroactively apply a new or revised standard, resulting in changes to previously reported financial results."
