[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. CAUTIONARY STATEMENT CONCERNING FORWARD - LOOKING STATEMENTS. This document, including \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition,\" and the documents incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, contain both historical and forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are not based on historical facts, but rather reflect the Company's current expectations concerning future results and events. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by the use of statements that include phrases such as \"believe,\" \"expect,\" \"anticipate,\" \"intend,\" \"plan,\" \"foresee,\" \"likely,\" \"will,\" \"may,\" \"could,\" \"estimate\" or other similar words or phrases. Similarly, statements that describe the Company's objectives, plans or goals are or may be forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are difficult to predict and which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be different from any future results, performance and achievements expressed or implied by these statements. More information about these risks, uncertainties and other factors is set forth below. Additional risks, uncertainties and other factors may be described in the Company's filings made under the securities laws. There may be additional risks, uncertainties and factors that the Company does not currently view as material or that are not necessarily known. The forward-looking statements included in this document are only made as of the date of this document and the Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.. I-16. RISK FACTORS. For an enterprise as large and complex as the Company, a wide range of factors could affect its business and financial results. The factors described below are considered to be the most significant. There may be other currently unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that could have material adverse effects on the Company's future results. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. The following discussion of risk factors should be read in conjunction with \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition\" and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in \"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\" of this Form 10-K.. The Company's Success and Profitability Are Dependent Upon Audience Acceptance of Its Content, Including Its Television Programs and Motion Pictures, Which Is Difficult to Predict. Television, motion picture and other content production and distribution are inherently risky businesses because the revenues derived from the production and distribution of such content, and the licensing of rights to the associated intellectual property, depend primarily upon their acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. The commercial success of a program or motion picture also depends upon the quality and acceptance of other competing programs and motion pictures released into the marketplace at or near the same time, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, all of which are difficult to predict. Rating points are also factors that are weighed when determining the advertising rates that the Company receives. The use of evolving ratings technologies and measurements, and viewership on platforms or devices, such as tablets, smart phones and other mobile devices, that is not being measured, could have an impact on the Company's program ratings and advertising revenues. For example, while C-7, a current television industry ratings system, measures live commercial viewing plus seven days of digital video recorder (\"DVR\") and video-on-demand playback, the viewership occurring on subsequent days of DVR and video - on - demand playback and online and mobile viewership are excluded from C-7 and other subsequent ratings. Also, consumer viewership of OTT services continues to grow and is under measured. Low ratings can lead to lower pricing and advertising spending. For example, there can be no assurance that any replacement programming on the Company's television stations will generate the same level of revenues or profitability as previous programming. In addition, the success of the Company's cable networks and Simon & Schuster is similarly dependent on audience acceptance of its programming and publications, respectively. The theatrical success of a motion picture, based in large part upon audience acceptance, is a significant factor in determining the revenues it is likely to generate in home entertainment sales, licensing fees and other exploitation during the various other distribution windows. Consequently, low public acceptance of the Company's content, including its television and OTT programs, motion pictures and publications, will have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. In addition, any decreased popularity of programming for which the Company has incurred significant commitments could have an adverse effect on its profitability. Programming and talent commitments of the Company, estimated to aggregate approximately $10.41 billion as of December 31, 2017, primarily included $7.30 billion for sports programming rights, $2.44 billion relating to the production and licensing of television and film programming, and $672 million for talent contracts with $794 million of these amounts payable in and after 2023. A shortfall, now or in the future, in the expected popularity of the sports events for which the Company has acquired rights, or in the programming the Company expects to distribute, could lead to decreased profitability or losses for a significant period of time.. A Decline in Advertising Expenditures Could Cause the Company's Revenues and Operating Results to Decline Significantly in Any Given Period or in Specific Markets. The Company derives substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on its broadcast and basic cable networks, television stations, syndicated programming, and digital properties. A decline in the economic prospects of advertisers, the economy in general or the economy of any individual geographic market, particularly a major market, such as Los Angeles, New York or Chicago, in which the Company owns and operates sizeable businesses, could alter current or prospective advertisers' spending priorities. Natural and other disasters, acts of terrorism, political uncertainty or. I-17. hostilities could lead to a reduction in advertising expenditures as a result of disrupted programming and services, uninterrupted news coverage and economic uncertainty. Advertising expenditures may also be affected by increasing competition for the leisure time of audiences. In addition, advertising expenditures by companies in certain sectors of the economy, including the automotive, financial and pharmaceutical segments, represent a significant portion of the Company's advertising revenues. Any political, economic, social or technological change resulting in a reduction in these sectors' advertising expenditures may adversely affect the Company's revenue. Advertisers' willingness to purchase advertising from the Company may also be affected by a decline in audience ratings for the Company's programming, the inability of the Company to retain the rights to popular programming, increasing audience fragmentation caused by new program channels and the proliferation of media formats, including the internet and video - on - demand and the deployment of portable digital video devices and new technologies, which allow consumers to live stream and time shift programming, make and store digital copies and skip or fast - forward through advertisements.  In addition, the pricing and volume of advertising may be affected by shifts in spending toward digital and mobile offerings , which can deliver targeted advertising promptly, from more traditional media, or toward newer ways of purchasing advertising, such as through automated purchasing, dynamic advertising insertion, third parties selling local advertising spots and advertising exchanges, some or all of which may not be as beneficial to the Company as traditional advertising methods.  Any reduction in advertising expenditures could have an adverse effect on the Company's revenues and results of operations.. Failure by the Company to Obtain, Create and Retain the Rights Related to Popular Programming Could Adversely Affect the Company's Revenues. The Company's revenue from its television, cable networks, digital services and motion picture business is partially dependent on the Company's continued ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in consumer tastes and behavior on a timely basis. Moreover, the Company derives a portion of its revenues from the exploitation of its extensive library of television programming. Generally, a television series must have a network run of at least three or four years to be successfully sold in domestic syndication, however, increasingly, these time frames are being shortened. If the content of its television programming library ceases to be widely accepted by audiences or is not continuously replenished with popular content, the Company's revenues could be adversely affected. The Company obtains a significant portion of its popular programming from third parties. For example, some of CBS Television Network's most widely viewed broadcasts, including golf's Masters Tournament, the PGA Championship, NFL games, NCAA Division I Men's Basketball Tournament games, and series such as The Big Bang Theory, are made available based upon programming rights of varying duration that the Company has negotiated with third parties.  In addition, Showtime Networks enters into commitments to acquire rights to certain programming for Showtime, The Movie Channel and Flix from motion picture producers and other suppliers for varying durations. CBS Films competes for compelling source material for and the talent necessary to produce motion pictures, as well as with other buyers for the acquisition of third - party produced motion pictures. Competition for popular programming that is licensed from third parties is intense, and the Company may be outbid by its competitors for the rights to new, popular programming or in connection with the renewal of popular programming currently licensed by the Company. The Company's failure to obtain or retain rights to popular content could adversely affect the Company's revenues.. The Company Must Respond to Rapid Changes in Technology, Content Creation, Services, Standards and Changes in Consumer Behavior in Order to Remain Competitive. Video, telecommunications and data services technologies used in the entertainment industry are changing rapidly as are the digital publishing and distribution models for books. Advances in technologies or alternative methods of product delivery or storage, including \"cloud-based\" DVR storage, or certain changes in consumer behavior driven by these or other technologies and methods of delivery and storage, could have a negative effect on the Company's businesses. Examples of the foregoing include the convergence of television broadcasts and online delivery of programming to televisions and other devices, video-on-demand platforms, tablets, new video and electronic book formats, user-generated content sites, internet and mobile distribution of video content via streaming and downloading, simultaneous live streaming of broadcast content, and place-shifting of content from the home to portable devices on which content is viewable outside the home. For example, devices that allow users to view television programs on a. I-18. time-delayed basis; technologies, such as DVRs, that enable users to fast-forward or skip advertisements or increase the sharing of subscription content; systems that allow users to access copyrighted product of the Company over the internet or other media; and portable digital devices and systems that enable users to view programming or store or make portable copies of programming, may cause changes in consumer behavior that could affect the attractiveness of the Company's offerings to advertisers and adversely affect its revenues. Also, the growing uses of antennas (and their integration with set-top boxes or other consumer devices) to access broadcast signals to avoid subscriptions, user-generated content sites and live and stored video streaming sites, which deliver unauthorized copies of copyrighted content, including those emanating from other countries in various languages, may adversely impact the Company's businesses. In addition, further increases in the use of internet-connected television or other digital devices, which allow users to consume content on-demand and in remote locations while avoiding traditional commercial advertisements or subscription payments, could adversely affect the Company's television broadcasting advertising and subscription revenues. Users who reduce, cancel or never had cable television subscription services are also known as \"cord-shavers,\" \"cord-cutters\" or \"cord-nevers,\" respectively. Cable providers and DBS operators are developing new techniques that allow them to transmit more channels on their existing equipment to highly targeted audiences, reducing the cost of creating channels and potentially leading to the division of the television marketplace into more specialized niche audiences. More television and video programming options increase competition for viewers and competitors targeting programming to narrowly defined audiences may gain an advantage over the Company for television advertising and subscription revenues. Television manufacturers, cable providers and others are developing and offering technology to enable viewers to locate digital copies of programming from the internet to view on television monitors or other devices, which could diminish viewership of the Company's programming. Generally, changing consumer behavior may impact the Company's traditional distribution methods, for example, by reducing viewership of its programming (including motion pictures), the demand for DVD and Blu-ray Disc product and/or the desire to see motion pictures in theaters, which could have an adverse impact on the Company's revenues and profitability. Also, the impact of technological changes on traditional distributors of video programming may adversely affect the Company's cable networks' ability to grow revenue. Anticipating and adapting to changes in technology and the consumption of content on a timely basis and exploiting new sources of revenue from these changes will affect the Company's ability to continue to increase its revenue.. Piracy of the Company's Programming and Other Content, Including Digital Piracy, May Decrease Revenue Received from the Exploitation of the Company's Programming and Other Content and Adversely Affect Its Businesses and Profitability. Piracy of programming (including motion pictures), books and other copyrighted material is prevalent in many parts of the world and is made easier by the availability of digital copies of content, which facilitates the creation, transmission and sharing of high quality unauthorized copies of the Company's content. Technological advances, which facilitate the streaming of programming via the internet to television screens and other devices, may increase piracy. The proliferation of unauthorized access to content, including through unauthorized live streaming, streaming boxes programmed to seek pirated copies of content, the unauthorized premature release of content and unauthorized account sharing of subscription program services, has an adverse effect on the Company's businesses and profitability because these unauthorized actions reduce the revenue that the Company potentially could receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of its products and services. In addition, if piracy were to increase, it would have an adverse effect on the Company's businesses and profitability. Also, while legal protections exist, piracy and technological tools with which to carry it out continue to escalate, evolve and present challenges for enforcement.  The Company enforces its rights against entities that illegally secure and exhibit its content, including streaming the Company's content without obtaining the consent of or paying compensation to the Company.  Failure of legal protections to evolve and enable enhanced enforcement efforts to combat piracy could make it more difficult for the Company to adequately protect its intellectual property, which could negatively impact its value and further increase the Company's enforcement costs.. I-19. The Company's Businesses Operate in Highly Competitive and Consolidating Industries. The Company competes with other media companies for high quality content to achieve large audiences and to generate advertising revenue. The Company also competes for distribution on various MVPD and other third-party digital platforms. The Company's ability to attract audiences and advertisers and obtain favorable distribution depends in part on its ability to provide popular programming, motion pictures and books and adapt to new technologies and distribution platforms. The consolidation of advertising agencies, distributors and television service providers also has increased their negotiating leverage and made competition for audiences, advertising revenue, and distribution more intense. In addition, consolidation among book retailers and the growth of online sales and electronic books sales have resulted in increased competition for limited physical shelf space for the Company's publications and for the attention of consumers online. Competition for audiences and advertising comes from: broadcast television stations and networks; cable television systems and networks; motion picture studios; the internet; non-traditional programming services; technological innovations in content distribution; terrestrial and satellite radio and portable devices; local, regional and national newspapers; direct mail; and other communications and advertising media that operate in these markets. Other television stations or cable networks may change their formats or programming, a new station or new network may adopt a format to compete directly with the Company's stations or networks, or stations or networks might engage in aggressive promotional campaigns. In book publishing, competition among electronic and print book retailers could decrease the prices for new releases and the outlets available for book sales. Moreover, the growing use of self-publishing technologies by authors increases competition and could result in decreased use of traditional publishing services. This competition could result in lower ratings and advertising and subscription and other revenues or increased content costs and promotional and other expenses and, consequently, lower earnings and cash flow for the Company. The Company cannot be assured that it will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing, new or potential competitors, or that competition and consolidation in the marketplace will not have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations.. The Loss of Affiliation Agreements or Retransmission Agreements or Renewals on Less Favorable Terms Could Materially Adversely Affect the Company's Results of Operations. The CBS Television Network provides its affiliates with up to approximately 98 hours of regularly scheduled programming per week. In return, the CBS Television Network's affiliated stations broadcast network-inserted commercials during that programming and pay the Company station affiliation fees. Loss of station affiliation agreements of the CBS Television Network could adversely affect the Company's results of operations by reducing the reach of the Company's programming and therefore its attractiveness to advertisers, and renewal of these affiliation agreements on less favorable terms may also adversely affect the Company's results of operations. Also, consolidation among television station group owners could increase their negotiating leverage. The non-renewal or termination of retransmission agreements with MVPDs or continued distribution on less favorable terms, could also adversely affect the Company's revenues and its ability to distribute its network programming to a nationwide audience and affect the Company's ability to sell advertising, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. Showtime Networks, CBS Sports Network and Smithsonian Networks are also dependent upon the maintenance of distribution agreements with MVPDs and other third-party digital platforms and there can be no assurance that these agreements will be renewed in the future on terms acceptable to such programmers. The loss of one or more of these arrangements could reduce the distribution of Showtime Networks', CBS Sports Network's and Smithsonian Networks' program services and reduce revenues from subscriber fees and advertising, as applicable. Further, the loss of favorable packaging, positioning, pricing or other marketing opportunities with any distributor could reduce revenues from subscriber fees. Also, consolidation among MVPDs and increased vertical integration of such distributors into the cable or broadcast network business have provided more leverage to these distributors and could adversely affect the Company's ability to maintain or obtain distribution for its network programming or distribution and/or marketing of its subscription program services on favorable or commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, MVPDs and digital streaming services continue to develop alternative offerings for consumers, including \"skinny bundles,\" which are generally smaller than the traditional program package or may allow the consumer to customize its package of program services.  To the extent these packages do not include the Company's. I-20. programming and become widely accepted in lieu of traditional program packages, the Company could experience a decline in affiliate and subscription revenues.. The Company's Operating Results Are Subject to Seasonal Variations and Other Factors. The Company's business has experienced and is expected to continue to experience seasonality due to, among other things, seasonal advertising patterns and seasonal influences, on people's viewing, reading, attendance and listening habits. Typically, the Company's revenue from advertising increases in the fourth quarter, Simon & Schuster generates a substantial portion of its revenues in the second half of the year, and license fees for television programming and CBS Films' revenue from motion pictures are dependent on the commencement of a license period, mix, number and availability of the Company's television programming and motion pictures, as applicable, which may cause operating results to increase or decrease during a period and create non-comparable results relative to the corresponding period in the prior year. In addition, advertising revenues in even-numbered years benefit from advertising placed by candidates for political offices. The effects of such seasonality make it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the previous results of any specific quarter and may adversely affect operating results.. Breach of Security Measures Regarding Information Systems Could Disrupt Operations and Damage the Company's Reputation and Could Materially Adversely Affect the Company's Businesses and Results of Operations. Network and information systems and other technologies are important to the Company's business activities. Despite the Company's security measures and disaster recovery planning, network and information systems - related events, such as computer compromises, cyber threats, security breaches, viruses, or other destructive or disruptive software, process breakdowns, employee or partner error or malicious or other activities, and power outages, terrorism, natural or other disasters could result in a disruption or degradation of the Company's services and operations, damage to equipment and data, loss of viewers and customer or advertiser dissatisfaction.  These events could also result in the improper disclosure or loss of personal data, confidential information, intellectual property or other proprietary information, including through third parties which receive any of such information on a confidential basis for business purposes and could be subject to any of these events, and damage the Company's reputation and require the Company to expend resources to remedy any such breaches.  The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations.. Economic Conditions May Adversely Affect the Company's Businesses and Customers. The U.S. and other countries where the Company operates experience slowdowns and volatilities in their economies from time to time. A downturn could lead to lower consumer and business spending for the Company's products and services, particularly if customers, including advertisers, subscribers, licensees, retailers, theater operators and other consumers of the Company's content offerings and services, reduce demands for the Company's products and services. In addition, in unfavorable economic environments, the Company's customers may have difficulties obtaining capital at adequate or historical levels to finance their ongoing business and operations and may face insolvency, all of which could impair their ability to make timely payments and continue operations, including distribution of the Company's content. The Company is unable to predict the duration and severity of weakened economic conditions and such conditions and resultant effects could adversely impact the Company's businesses, operating results, and financial condition.. Increased Programming and Content Costs May Adversely Affect the Company's Profits. The Company produces and acquires programming (including motion pictures) and other content and incurs costs with respect to its content, including for all types of creative talent, including actors, authors, writers and producers, composers and publishers of music, as well as for marketing and distribution. An increase in any of these costs and. I-21. increased competition from consolidated entities and new entrants with substantial resources into the market for the production and acquisition of new content may lead to decreased profitability.. Volatility and Weakness in Capital Markets May Adversely Affect Credit Availability and Related Financing Costs for the Company. Bank and capital markets can experience periods of volatility and disruption. If the disruption in these markets is prolonged, the Company's ability to refinance, and the related cost of refinancing, some or all of its debt could be adversely affected. Although the Company can currently access the bank and capital markets, there is no assurance that such markets will continue to be a reliable source of financing for the Company. In addition, the Company's access to and cost of borrowing can be affected by the Company's short- and long-term debt ratings assigned by ratings agencies. These factors, including the tightening of credit markets, or a decrease in the Company's debt ratings, could adversely affect the Company's ability to obtain cost - effective financing.. Changes in Communications Laws or Other Regulations May Have an Adverse Effect on the Company's Business. The television broadcasting and distribution industries in the U.S. are highly regulated by U.S. federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the FCC. The television broadcasting industry is subject to extensive regulation by the FCC under the Communications Act. For example, the Company is required to obtain licenses from the FCC to operate its television stations. The Company cannot be assured that the FCC will approve its future renewal applications or that the renewals will be for full terms or will not include conditions or qualifications. The non-renewal, or renewal with substantial conditions or modifications, of one or more of the Company's licenses could have a material adverse effect on the Company's revenues. The Company must also comply with extensive FCC regulations and policies in the ownership and operation of its television stations and its television networks. FCC regulations prohibit the common ownership of more than one of the top four networks, ABC, CBS, FOX and NBC, and limit the number of television stations that a licensee can own in a market and the number of television stations that can be owned nationwide, which could restrict the Company's ability to consummate future transactions and in certain circumstances could require it to divest some television stations. The U.S. Congress and the FCC currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations, and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect the operation and ownership of the Company's television properties.  For example, from time to time, proposals have been advanced in the U.S. Congress and at the FCC to require television stations to provide advertising time to political candidates for free or at a reduced charge. Any restrictions on political or other advertising may adversely affect the Company's advertising revenues.  Changes to the media ownership and other FCC rules may affect the competitive landscape in ways that could increase the competition faced by the Company. Proposals have also been advanced from time to time before the U.S. Congress and the FCC to extend the program access rules (currently applicable only to those cable program services which also own or are owned in whole or in part by cable distribution or telephone company systems) to all cable program services. The Company's ability to obtain the most favorable terms available for its content could be adversely affected should such an extension be enacted into law.  Congress authorized the FCC to conduct voluntary auctions to reclaim spectrum utilized by broadcast television stations to provide additional spectrum for wireless broadband services. The television stations that will continue their operations after the auctions, which commenced in 2016 and concluded in March 2017, may have to change channels as the FCC \"repacks\" the remaining spectrum dedicated to broadcast television use.  Congress allocated funds that will at least partially reimburse the costs related to stations repacking.  It is difficult to predict the outcome of the FCC's actions or their effect, if any, on the Company's broadcasting properties.  In addition, changes in or new interpretations of international laws and regulations governing the broadcast and distribution of content, competition and the internet, including those affecting data privacy, as well as proposed amendments to the law governing territorial exclusivity of the distribution of content in Europe, may have an adverse impact on the Company's international businesses and internet properties. The Company is unable to predict the effect that any such laws, regulations or policies may have on its operations.. I-22. Vigorous Enforcement or Enhancement of FCC Indecency and Other Program Content Rules Against the Broadcast and Cable Industries Could Have an Adverse Effect on the Company's Businesses and Results of Operations. The FCC's rules prohibit the broadcast of obscene material at any time and indecent or profane material on television stations between the hours of 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. Broadcasters risk violating the prohibition against broadcasting indecent material because of the vagueness of the FCC's indecency/profanity definition, coupled with the spontaneity of live programming. The FCC enforces its indecency rules against the broadcasting industry. The FCC has found on a number of occasions that the content of television broadcasts has contained indecent material. In such instances, the FCC issued fines or advisory warnings to the offending licensees. Moreover, the FCC has in some instances imposed separate fines for each allegedly indecent \"utterance,\" in contrast with its previous policy, which generally considered all indecent words or phrases within a given program as constituting a single violation. The fines for broadcasting indecent material per station are a maximum of approximately $397,000 per utterance. If the FCC denied a license renewal or revoked the license for one of the Company's television stations, the Company would lose its authority to operate the station. The determination of whether content is indecent is inherently subjective and, as such, it can be difficult to predict whether particular content could violate indecency standards. The difficulty in predicting whether individual programs, words or phrases may violate the FCC's indecency rules adds significant uncertainty to the Company's ability to comply with the rules. Violation of indecency rules could lead to sanctions which may adversely affect the Company's businesses and results of operations. Some policymakers support the extension of the indecency rules that are applicable to over-the-air broadcasters to cover cable and satellite programming and/or attempts to increase enforcement of or otherwise expand existing laws and rules. If such an extension, attempt to increase enforcement or other expansion took place and were found to be constitutional, some of the Company's cable content could be subject to additional regulation and might not be able to attract the same subscription and viewership levels.. The Failure or Destruction of Satellites and Transmitter Facilities that the Company Depends Upon to Distribute Its Programming Could Materially Adversely Affect the Company's Businesses and Results of Operations. The Company uses satellite systems to transmit its broadcast and cable networks to affiliates. The distribution facilities include uplinks, communications satellites and downlinks. Transmissions may be disrupted as a result of local disasters including extreme weather that impair on-ground uplinks or downlinks, or as a result of an impairment of a satellite. Currently, there are a limited number of communications satellites available for the transmission of programming. If a disruption occurs, failure to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the Company's businesses and results of operations. Each of the Company's television stations and cable networks uses studio and transmitter facilities that are subject to damage or destruction. Failure to restore such facilities in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the Company's businesses and results of operations.. The Company Could Suffer Losses Due to Asset Impairment Charges for Goodwill, Intangible Assets, FCC Licenses and Programming. The Company will test goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, including FCC licenses, for impairment during the fourth quarter of each year and between annual tests if events or circumstances require an interim impairment assessment. A downward revision in the estimated fair value of a reporting unit or intangible assets, including FCC licenses, could result in a non-cash impairment charge. Also, any significant shortfall, now or in the future, in the expected popularity of the programming for which the Company has acquired rights could lead to a downward revision in the fair value of such assets. Any such impairment charge for goodwill, intangible assets and/or programming could have a material adverse effect on the Company's reported net earnings.. I-23. Dividends and Dividend Rates Cannot Be Guaranteed. The Company's Board of Directors assesses relevant factors when considering the declaration of a dividend on the Company's common stock. The Company cannot guarantee that it will continue to declare dividends, including at the same or similar rates.. The Loss of Key Personnel, Including Talent, Could Disrupt the Management or Operations of the Company's Business and Adversely Affect Its Revenues. The Company's business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of its chief executive officer and other key employees and entertainment personalities. The Company believes that the unique combination of skills and experience possessed by its executive officers would be difficult to replace, and that the loss of its executive officers could have a material adverse effect on the Company, including the impairment of the Company's ability to execute its business strategy. While the Company does not maintain a written succession plan with respect to Chairman of the Board, in accordance with the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines, designated independent committees of the CBS Board together periodically review succession planning for the position of Chairman and report to the non-management directors of the CBS Board. Because approximately 79.5% of the voting shares are controlled by Sumner Redstone there can be no assurance now or in the future that he or the successors to the voting control may not seek to effect succession of the Chairman; however, and in all cases, the Board will elect the next Chairman by a majority vote of the Board. Additionally, the Company employs or independently contracts with several entertainment personalities and authors with significant loyal audiences or readership. Entertainment personalities are sometimes significantly responsible for the ranking of a television station and, therefore, the ability of the station to sell advertising, and an author's popularity can be significantly responsible for the success of a particular book. The Company's cable networks, CBS Television Studios and CBS Television Distribution produce programming and CBS Films produces motion pictures with highly regarded directors, actors and other talent who are important to attracting and retaining audiences for their content. There can be no assurance that these entertainment personalities, authors and talent will remain with or be drawn to the Company or will retain their current audiences or readership. If the Company fails to retain or attract these entertainment personalities, authors and talent or they lose their current audiences or readership, the Company's revenues could be adversely affected.. The Company's Liabilities Related to Discontinued Operations and Former Businesses Could Adversely Impact Its Financial Condition. The Company has recognized and potential liabilities and costs related to discontinued operations and former businesses, certain of which are unrelated to the media business, including leases, guarantees, environmental liabilities, liabilities related to the pensions and medical expenses of retirees, asbestos liabilities, contractual disputes and other pending and threatened litigation. The Company cannot be assured that its reserves are sufficient to cover these liabilities in their entirety or any one of these liabilities when it becomes due or at what point any of these liabilities may come due. Therefore, there can be no assurances that these liabilities will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position, operating performance or cash flow.. The Company Could Be Adversely Affected by Strikes and Other Union Activity. The Company and its suppliers engage the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent, trade employees and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements. If the Company or its suppliers are unable to renew expiring collective bargaining agreements, it is possible that the affected unions or others could take action in the form of strikes or work stoppages. Such actions, higher costs in connection with these agreements or a significant labor dispute could adversely affect the Company's television, cable networks, interactive and motion picture businesses by disrupting the Company's ability to provide scheduled services and programming or by causing delays in the production of the Company's programming or motion pictures. Depending on its duration, any lockout, strike. I-24. or work stoppage could have an adverse effect on the Company's revenues, cash flows and/or operating income and/or the timing thereof.. Fluctuations in Foreign Exchange Rates and Political and Economic Risks Associated with the Company's International Businesses Could Harm the Company's Financial Condition or Results of Operations. The Company's businesses operate and have customers worldwide. Certain of the Company's revenues are earned and expenses are incurred in foreign currencies.  The value of these currencies fluctuates relative to the U.S. dollar.  As a result, the Company is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations, which could have an adverse effect on its results of operations.  Other inherent risks of doing business in international markets include changes in the economic environment, potentially adverse tax developments, export restrictions, exchange controls, tariffs and other trade and sanctions barriers, longer payment cycles, and changes in privacy and data protection laws.  The Company may incur substantial expense as a result of the imposition of new restrictions or changes in the existing economic environment in the regions where it does business.  For example, the ongoing \"Brexit\" processes to withdraw the U.K. from the European Union, which is expected to occur in March 2019, may adversely affect economic and market conditions in the U.K. and other regions where the Company conducts business and could contribute to volatility in foreign exchange markets. In addition, acts of terrorism or other hostilities, or other future financial, political, economic or other uncertainties, could lead to a reduction in advertising expenditures, which could materially adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations.. NAI, Through Its Voting Control of the Company, Is in a Position to Control Actions that Require Stockholder Approval. NAI, through its direct and indirect ownership of the Company's Class A Common Stock, has voting control of the Company.  At December 31, 2017, NAI directly or indirectly owned approximately 79.5% of the Company's voting Class A Common Stock, and approximately 10.2% of the Company's Class A Common Stock and non-voting Class B Common Stock on a combined basis.  Mr. Sumner M. Redstone is the beneficial owner of the controlling interest in NAI and, accordingly, beneficially owns all such shares.  Mr. Redstone, the controlling stockholder, chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of NAI, serves as Chairman Emeritus of the Company's Board of Directors, and Ms. Shari Redstone, the president and a director of NAI, serves as Vice Chair of the Company's Board of Directors. In addition, Mr. David R. Andelman is a director of NAI and serves as a director of the Company.  NAI is controlled by Mr. Redstone through the Sumner M. Redstone National Amusements Trust (the \"SMR Trust\"), which owns 80% of the voting interest of NAI, and such voting interest of NAI held by the SMR Trust is voted solely by Mr. Redstone until his incapacity or death. The SMR Trust provides that in the event of Mr. Redstone's death or incapacity, voting control of the NAI voting interest held by the SMR Trust will pass to seven trustees, who will include CBS Corporation directors Ms. Shari Redstone and Mr. David R. Andelman. No member of the Company's management is a trustee of the SMR Trust.  NAI is in a position to control the outcome of corporate actions that require stockholder approval, including the election of directors and transactions involving a change of control. Other stockholders who may have different interests are unable to affect the outcome of the corporate actions of the Company for so long as NAI retains voting control.. Sales of NAI's Shares of Common Stock Could Adversely Affect the Stock Price. At December 31, 2017, NAI directly or indirectly owned approximately 79.5% of the Company's voting Class A Common Stock, and approximately 10.2% of the Company's Class A Common Stock and non-voting Class B Common Stock on a combined basis.  Based on information received from NAI, NAI has pledged to its lenders shares of the Company's voting Class A common Stock and non-voting Class B Common Stock owned directly or indirectly by NAI.  The aggregate number of shares pledged by NAI represents approximately 4.4% of the total outstanding shares of voting Class A Common Stock and non-voting Class B Common Stock, on a combined basis.  The amount of the Company's voting Class A Common Stock which NAI directly or indirectly owns and which has not been pledged by NAI to its lenders represents approximately 59.6% of the Company's total voting Class A Common stock outstanding.  If there is a default on NAI's debt obligations and the lenders foreclose on the collateral, the lenders. I-25. cannot sell or transfer any pledged shares of the Company's voting Class A Common Stock, unless such shares are converted into shares of the Company's non-voting Class B Common Stock, and then such Class B Common Stock could be sold, which sale could adversely affect the Company's share price.  Additionally, if the lenders foreclose on the pledged shares of voting Class A Common Stock, NAI will no longer directly or indirectly own those shares and such lenders would have voting rights in the Company. In addition, there can be no assurance that NAI or its subsidiaries at some future time will not sell or pledge additional shares of the Company's stock, which could adversely affect the Company's share price.. Many Factors May Cause the Stock Price of the Company's Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock to Fluctuate. The stock price of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock may fluctuate significantly as a result of many factors. These factors, some or all of which are beyond the Company's control, include: actual or anticipated fluctuations in the Company's operating results; changes in expectations as to the Company's future financial performance or changes in financial estimates of securities analysts; success of the Company's operating and growth strategies; investor anticipation of strategic, technological or regulatory threats, whether or not warranted by actual events; operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; and realization of any of the risks described in these risk factors.  In addition, the stock market has experienced volatility that often has been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading prices of the Company's common stock, regardless of the Company's actual operating performance.. The Businesses of the Company and Viacom Inc. Will Be Attributable to the Other Company for Certain Regulatory Purposes, Which May Limit Business Opportunities. So long as the Company and Viacom Inc. are under common control, each company's businesses, as well as the businesses of any other commonly controlled company, will be attributable to the other company for purposes of certain rules and regulations of the FCC, U.S. and non-U.S. antitrust rules and regulations and certain rules regarding political campaign contributions in the U.S., among others potentially. The businesses of one company will continue to be attributable to the other company for certain FCC and other purposes even after the two companies cease to be commonly controlled, if the two companies share common officers, directors, or attributable stockholders. As a result, the businesses and conduct of Viacom Inc. may have the effect of limiting and affecting the activities, strategic business alternatives and business terms available to the Company, including limitations to which the Company contractually agreed in connection with the Company's separation of former Viacom Inc. (\"Former Viacom\") into two publicly traded entities, CBS Corporation and new Viacom Inc., which was completed on December 31, 2005 (the \"Separation\").. In Connection with the Separation, Each Company Will Rely on the Other Company's Performance Under Various Agreements Between the Companies. In connection with the Separation, the Company and Viacom Inc. entered into various agreements, including a Separation Agreement dated December 19, 2005, a Tax Matters Agreement dated December 30, 2005, which are filed as exhibits to this report, and certain related party arrangements pursuant to which the Company and Viacom Inc. will provide services and products to each other from and after the Separation. The Separation Agreement sets forth the allocation of assets, liabilities, rights and obligations of the Company and Viacom Inc. following the Separation, and includes indemnification obligations for such liabilities and obligations. In addition, pursuant to the Tax Matters Agreement, certain income tax liabilities and related responsibilities are allocated between, and indemnification obligations are assumed by, each of the Company and Viacom Inc. Each company will rely on the other to satisfy its performance and payment obligations under these agreements. Certain of the liabilities to be assumed or indemnified by the Company or Viacom Inc. under these agreements are legal or contractual liabilities of the other company. If Viacom Inc. were to breach or be unable to satisfy its material obligations under these agreements, including a failure to satisfy its indemnification obligations, the Company could suffer operational difficulties or significant losses.. I-26. NAI, Certain Directors and Members of Management May Face Actual or Potential Conflicts of Interest. NAI has voting control of each of the Company and Viacom Inc. Mr. Redstone, the controlling stockholder through the SMR Trust, chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of NAI, serves as Chairman Emeritus of the Company and Chairman Emeritus of Viacom Inc.  Ms. Redstone, the president and a director of NAI, serves as Vice Chair of the Board of Directors of each of the Company and Viacom Inc. Mr. David R. Andelman is a director of NAI and serves as a director of the Company. This ownership overlap and these common directors could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when the Company's and Viacom Inc.'s directors and controlling stockholder face decisions that could have different implications for the Company and Viacom Inc. For example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between the Company and Viacom Inc. regarding the terms of the agreements governing the Separation and the relationship between the Company and Viacom Inc. thereafter.  These agreements include the Separation Agreement, the Tax Matters Agreement and any commercial agreements between the parties or their affiliates. On occasion, the Company and Viacom Inc. may compete with each other in various commercial enterprises. Potential conflicts of interest could also arise if the Company and Viacom Inc. enter into any commercial arrangements with each other in the future.  CBS Corp.'s certificate of incorporation contains provisions related to corporate opportunities that may be of interest to both the Company and Viacom Inc. CBS Corp.'s certificate of incorporation provides that in the event that a director, officer or controlling stockholder of the Company who is also a director, officer or controlling stockholder of Viacom Inc. acquires knowledge of a potential corporate opportunity for both the Company and Viacom Inc., such director, officer or controlling stockholder may present such opportunity to the Company or Viacom Inc. or both, as such director, officer or controlling stockholder deems appropriate in his or her sole discretion, and that by doing so such person will have satisfied his or her fiduciary duties to the Company and its stockholders. In addition, CBS Corp.'s certificate of incorporation provides that the Company renounces any interest in any such opportunity presented to Viacom Inc. These provisions create the possibility that a corporate opportunity of one of such companies may be used for the benefit of the other company."
