[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Set forth below are the risk factors that we believe are material to our investors. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business operating results and/or financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of our common stock and other securities. In addition to the following disclosures, please refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K including the accompanying consolidated financial statements and the related notes. This section contains forward-looking statements. You should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitation on forward-looking statements appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. These risk factors are not exhaustive.  We operate in a competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all risk factors, nor can we assess the impact of all risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may affect our business. Investors should also refer to our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K for future periods for material updates to these risk factors.. Risks Related to Our Properties and Our Business. Our properties consist primarily of grocery-anchored shopping centers. Our performance therefore is linked to economic conditions in the market for retail space generally.. Our properties consist primarily of grocery-anchored shopping centers, and our performance therefore is linked to economic conditions in the market for retail space generally.  This also means that we are subject to the risks that affect the retail environment generally, including the levels of consumer spending, the willingness of retailers to lease space in our shopping centers, tenant bankruptcies, the impact of internet sales on the demand for retail space, ongoing consolidation in the retail sector, and changes in economic conditions and consumer confidence.  A downturn in the U.S. economy and reduced consumer spending could impact our tenants' ability to meet their lease obligations due to poor operating results, lack of liquidity or other reasons, and therefore decrease the revenue generated by our properties and/or the value of our properties.  Our ability to lease space and negotiate and maintain favorable rents could also be negatively impacted by the state of the U.S. economy.  Moreover, the demand for leasing space in our shopping centers could also significantly decline during a significant downturn in the U.S. economy that could result in a decline in our occupancy percentage and reduction in rental revenues. Any sustained levels of high unemployment can be expected to have a serious negative impact on consumer spending and sales by tenants at our shopping centers.. In addition, increases in energy costs in this country may cause shoppers to restrict their trips by automobile to shopping centers, reduce their purchases of gasoline and other products from the fuel service stations at several of our properties, as well as reduce their levels of discretionary spending, all of which, in turn, could adversely affect sales at our properties.. The geographic concentration of our properties in the Washington, D.C. to Boston corridor exposes us to greater economic risks than if the distribution of our properties encompassed a broader region.. Our properties are located largely in the region that straddles the Washington, D.C. to Boston corridor, which exposes us to greater economic risks than if our properties were more diversely located (in particular, 26 of our properties are located in Pennsylvania). Any adverse economic or real estate developments resulting from the regulatory environment, business climate, fiscal problems or weather in such regions could have an adverse impact on our prospects. In addition, the economic condition of each of our markets may be dependent on one or more industries. An economic downturn in one of these industry sectors may result in an increase in tenant vacancies, which may harm our performance in the affected markets.. Our performance and value are subject to risks associated with real estate assets and with the real estate industry.. Our performance and value are subject to risks associated with real estate assets and with the real estate industry, including, among other things, risks related to adverse changes in national, regional and local economic and market conditions. Our continued ability to make expected distributions to our shareholders depends on our ability to generate sufficient revenues to meet operating expenses, future debt service and capital expenditure requirements. Events and conditions generally applicable to owners and operators of real property that are beyond our control may decrease cash available for distribution and the value of our properties. These events and conditions include, but may not be limited to, the following:. 10. •  local oversupply, increased competition or declining demand for real estate;. •  local economic conditions, which may be adversely impacted by plant closings, business layoffs, industry slow - downs, weather conditions, natural disasters and other factors;. •  non-payment or deferred payment of rent or other charges by tenants, either as a result of tenant-specific financial ills, or general economic events or circumstances adversely affecting consumer disposable income or credit;. •  vacancies or an inability to rent space on acceptable terms;. •  increased operating costs, including real estate taxes, insurance premiums, utilities, costs associated with the need to periodically renovate and re-lease space, and repairs and maintenance;. •  volatility and/or increases in interest rates, or the non-availability of funds in the credit markets in general;. •  increased costs of complying with current, new or expanded governmental regulations;. •  the relative illiquidity of real estate investments;. •  changing market demographics;. •  changing traffic patterns; and. •  an inability to refinance maturing debt in acceptable amounts and/or on acceptable terms.. In addition, costs associated with our operations, such as real estate and personal property taxes, insurance, and mortgage payments, generally are not reduced even as occupancy or rental rates decrease, tenants fail to pay base and additional rent or other circumstances cause a reduction in income. As a result, our financial performance, cash flow from operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders may be adversely affected.. Our success depends on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed.. Our success depends on the efforts of key personnel, whose continued service is not guaranteed. Key personnel could be lost because we could not offer, among other things, competitive compensation programs. Our President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Bruce Schanzer, and Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, Mr. Philip Mays, each have an employment contract with the Company that expires in June 2018.  If one or more of our senior executives or key employees, including Mr. Schanzer and/or Mr. Mays, are unable to continue in their present positions or if their employment contracts are not renewed, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all. Competition for key personnel is intense, and such experienced individuals in our industry are in short supply. The loss of services of key personnel could materially and adversely affect our operations because of diminished relationships with lenders, sources of equity capital, construction companies, and existing and prospective tenants, and the ability to conduct our business and operations without material disruption.. The level of our indebtedness and any constraints on credit may impede our operating performance, and put us at a competitive disadvantage.. The level of our indebtedness may harm our business and operating results by (1) requiring us to use a substantial portion of our available liquidity to pay required debt service and/or repayments or establish additional reserves, which would reduce amounts available for distributions, (2) placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt or debt at more favorable terms, (3) making us more vulnerable to economic and industry downturns and reducing our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions, and (4) limiting our ability to borrow more money for operations or capital expenditures.  In addition, increases in interest rates may impede our operating performance and put us at a competitive disadvantage. Further, payments of required debt service or amounts due at maturity, or creation of additional reserves under loan agreements, could adversely affect our liquidity. Our organizational documents do not limit the level or amount of debt that we may incur, no do we have a policy limiting our debt to any particular level.. As a relatively small public REIT, our general and administrative expenses constitute a larger percentage of our total revenues than many of our peers.. Our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017 were $146.0 million. Because our company is smaller than many other publicly-traded REITs, our general and administrative expenses are, and will continue to be, a larger percentage of our total revenues than many of our peer REITs. If we are unable to successfully execute on our strategy and grow our business, our general and administrative expenses will continue to have a greater effect on our financial performance and will reduce the amount of cash flow available to distribute to our shareholders.. 11. Economic conditions in the U.S. economy in general, and any uncertainty in the credit markets and retail environment, could adversely affect our ability to continue to pay dividends or cause us to reduce further the amount of our dividends.. We paid dividends totaling $0.20 per share during each of 2017, 2016 and 2015. However, any downturn in the state of the U.S. economy, weakness in capital markets and/or difficult retail environment may cause us to reduce or suspend the payment of dividends.. Any volatility or instability in the credit markets could adversely affect our ability to obtain new financing or to refinance existing indebtedness.. Any instability in the credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access debt financing, to arrange property - specific financing or to refinance our existing debt as it matures on favorable terms or at all.  As a result, we may be forced to seek potentially less attractive financings, including equity investments, on terms that may not be favorable to us.  In doing so, we may be compelled to dilute the interests of existing shareholders that could also adversely reduce the trading price of our common stock.. We may be exposed to additional risks through our hedging activities, including the risks that a counterparty will not perform and that the hedge will not yield the economic benefits we anticipate.. To manage our exposure to variable interest rate risk, we use derivative instruments that involve risk, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, or that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes. There can be no assurance that our hedging arrangements will qualify for hedge accounting or that our hedging activities will have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations. If we decide to terminate a hedging agreement, there could be significant costs and cash requirements involved to fulfill our obligations under the hedging agreement. Failure to effectively hedge against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations.. In addition, under the REIT qualification provisions of the Code, income we could receive from certain hedging transactions may be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. As a result of these rules, we may need to limit or entirely avoid otherwise advantageous hedging techniques.. As substantially all of our revenues are derived from rental income, failure of tenants to pay rent or delays in arranging leases and occupancy at our properties could seriously harm our operating results and financial condition.. Substantially all of our revenues are derived from rental income from our properties. Our tenants may experience a downturn in their respective businesses and/or in the economy generally at any time that may weaken their financial condition. As a result, any such tenants may delay lease commencement, fail to make rental payments when due, decline to extend a lease upon its expiration, become insolvent, or declare bankruptcy. Any leasing delays, failure to make rental or other payments when due, or tenant bankruptcies, could result in the termination of tenants' leases, which would have a negative impact on our operating results. In addition, adverse market and economic conditions and competition may impede our ability to renew leases or re-let space as leases expire, which could harm our business and operating results.. Our business may be seriously harmed if a major tenant fails to renew its lease(s) or vacates one or more properties and prevents us from re-leasing such premises by continuing to pay base rent for the balance of the lease terms. In addition, the loss of such a major tenant could result in lease terminations or reductions in rent by other tenants at the affected properties, as provided in their respective leases. Excluding properties held for sale or sold, no tenant leased more than 10% of GLA at December 31, 2017 or contributed more than 10% of total revenues during 2017, except for Giant Food Stores, LLC, Stop & Shop, Inc. and Food Lion, LLC, each of which is owned by Ahold N.V., a Netherlands corporation, which leased an aggregate of approximately 11% of our GLA at December 31, 2017, and accounted for an aggregate of approximately 12% of our total revenues, during 2017.. We may be restricted from re-leasing space based on existing exclusivity lease provisions with some of our tenants. In these cases, the leases contain provisions giving the tenant the exclusive right to sell particular types of merchandise or provide specific types of services within the particular retail center, which limits the ability of other tenants within that center to sell such merchandise or provide such services. When re-leasing space after a vacancy by one of such other tenants, such lease provisions may limit the number and types of prospective tenants for the vacant space. The failure to re-lease space or to re-lease space on satisfactory terms could harm operating results.. We face potential material adverse effects from tenant bankruptcies.. Any bankruptcy filings by, or relating to, one of our tenants or a lease guarantor would generally bar efforts by us to collect pre-bankruptcy debts from that tenant, or lease guarantor, unless we receive an order permitting us to do so from the bankruptcy court. A. 12. bankruptcy by a tenant or lease guarantor could delay efforts to collect past due balances, and could ultimately preclude full or, in fact, any collection of such sums. If a lease is affirmed by the tenant in bankruptcy, all pre-bankruptcy balances due under the lease must generally be paid in full. However, if a lease is disaffirmed by a tenant in bankruptcy, we would have only an unsecured claim for damages, which would be paid normally only to the extent that funds are available, and only in the same percentage as is paid to all other members of the same class of unsecured creditors. In addition, we may be unable to replace the tenant at current rental rates. It is possible, and indeed likely, that we would recover substantially less than, or in fact no portion of, the full value of any unsecured claims we hold, and would be required to write off any straight-line rent receivable recorded for such tenant, which may in turn harm our financial condition.. Our development and redevelopment activities may not yield anticipated returns, which would harm our operating results and reduce funds available for distributions to shareholders.. We have limited experience in substantially developing and redeveloping properties in our markets. Development and redevelopment projects entail considerable risks, including:. •  time lag between commencement and completion, leaving us exposed to higher-than-estimated construction costs, including labor and material costs, as well as changes in the overall rental markets;. •  failure or inability to obtain construction or permanent financing on favorable terms;. •  expenditure of money and time on projects that may never be completed;. •  inability to secure key anchor or other tenants;. •  inability to achieve projected rental rates or anticipated pace of lease-up;. •  inability to obtain various government and other approvals;. •  delays in completion relating to weather, labor disruptions, construction or zoning delays; and. •  higher costs incurred than originally estimated.. In addition, the entitlement and development of real estate entails extensive approval processes, sometimes involving multiple regulatory jurisdictions. It is common for a project to require multiple approvals, permits and consents from U.S. federal, state and local governing and regulatory bodies. Compliance with these and other regulations and standards is time intensive and costly and may require additional long range infrastructure review and approvals which can add to project cost. In addition, development of properties containing delineated wetlands may require one or more permits from the U.S. federal government and/or state and local governmental agencies. Any of these issues can materially affect the cost, timing and economic viability of our development and redevelopment projects.. Moreover, properties we redevelop or acquire may fail to achieve the occupancy or rental rates we project, within the time frames we project, at the time we make the decision to invest, which may result in the properties' failure to achieve the returns we projected.  Our pre-acquisition evaluation of the physical condition of each new investment may not detect certain defects or identify necessary repairs until after the property is acquired, which could significantly increase our total acquisition costs or decrease cash flow from the property.  In addition, our investigation of a property or building prior to our acquisition, and any representations we may receive from the seller of such building or property, may fail to reveal various liabilities, which could reduce the cash flow from the property or increase our acquisition cost.. At times, we may also be required to use unionized construction workers or to pay the prevailing wage in a jurisdiction to unionized workers. Due to the highly labor intensive and price competitive nature of the construction business, the cost of unionization and/or prevailing wage requirements for new developments or redevelopments could be substantial. Unionization and prevailing wage requirements could adversely affect a project's profitability. In addition, union activity or a union workforce could increase the risk of a strike, which would adversely affect our ability to meet our construction timetables, which could adversely affect our reputation and our results of operations.. Additionally, new real estate under development activities typically require substantial time and attention from management, and the time frame required for development, construction and lease-up of these properties could require several years to realize any significant cash return. The foregoing risks could cause the development of properties to hinder the Company's growth and have an adverse effect on its results of operations and cash flows.. \"New Technology\" developments may negatively impact our tenants and our business.. We may be adversely affected by developments in new technology which may cause the business of certain of our tenants to become substantially diminished or functionally obsolete, with the result that such tenants may be unable to pay rent, become. 13. insolvent, file for bankruptcy protection, close their stores, or terminate their leases. Examples of the potentially adverse effects of new technology on retail businesses include, among other things, the effect of \"e-books\" and small screen readers on book stores, and increased sales of many products on-line.. Recent annual increases in online sales have also caused many retailers to sell products online on their websites with pick-ups at a store or warehouse or through deliveries, which may have the effect of decreasing the reported amount of their in-store sales and the amount of rent we are able to collect from them. With respect to grocer tenants, on-line grocery orders have become increasingly available, particularly in urban areas, but have not yet become a major factor affecting grocers in our portfolio.  We cannot predict with certainty how growth in internet sales will impact the demand for space at our properties or how much revenue will be generated at \"bricks and mortar\" store locations in the future. If we are unable to anticipate and respond promptly to trends in retailer and consumer behavior, our occupancy levels and financial results could suffer.. Competition may impede our ability to renew leases or re - let spaces as leases expire, which could harm our business and operating results.. We also face competition from similar retail centers within our respective trade areas that may affect our ability to renew leases or re-let space as leases expire. Certain national retail chain bankruptcies and resulting store closings/lease disaffirmations have generally resulted in increased available retail space which, in turn, has resulted in increased competitive pressure to renew tenant leases upon expiration and to find new tenants for vacant space at such properties.  In addition, any new competitive properties that are developed within the trade areas of our existing properties may result in increased competition for customer traffic and creditworthy tenants. Increased competition for tenants may require us to make tenant and/or capital improvements to properties beyond those that we would otherwise have planned to make. Any unbudgeted tenant and/or capital improvements we undertake may reduce cash that would otherwise be available for distributions to shareholders. Ultimately, to the extent we are unable to renew leases or re-let space as leases expire, our business and operations could be negatively impacted.. The financial covenants in our loan agreements may restrict our operating or acquisition activities, which may harm our financial condition and operating results.. The financial covenants in our loan agreements may restrict our operating or acquisition activities, which may harm our financial condition and operating results. Our unsecured credit facilities and the mortgages on our properties contain customary negative covenants, such as those that limit our ability, without the prior consent of the lender, to sell or otherwise transfer any ownership interest, to further mortgage the applicable property, to enter into leases, or to discontinue insurance coverage. Our ability to borrow under our unsecured revolving credit facility is subject to compliance with these financial and other covenants, including restrictions on the maximum availability, which is based on the adjusted net operating income of designated unencumbered properties, the payment of dividends, and overall restrictions on the amount of indebtedness we can incur. If we breach covenants in our debt agreements, the lenders could declare a default and require us to repay the debt immediately and, if the debt is secured, take possession of the property or properties securing the loan.. Mortgage debt obligations expose us to the possibility of foreclosure, which could result in the loss of our investment in a property or group of properties subject to mortgage debt.. If a property or group of properties is mortgaged to secure payment of debt and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, the holder of the mortgage or lender could foreclose on the property, resulting in a loss of our investment. Alternatively, if we decide to sell assets in the current market to raise funds to repay matured debt, it is possible that these properties will be disposed of at a loss.. Our properties may be subject to impairment charges.. On a periodic basis, we assess whether there are any indicators that the value of its held-for-use real estate assets and other investments may be impaired.  Held-for-use real estate assets are impaired only if the estimate of the aggregate future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) to be generated by the property are less than the carrying value of the property.  The estimate of cash flows considers factors such as expected future operating income, capital expenditures, trends and prospects, the effects of demand, tenant-operator performance, competition and other factors.  If we are evaluating the potential sale of an asset or development alternatives, the future cash flow considerations include the most likely course of action at the balance sheet date based on current plans, intended holding periods and available market information including a market discount rate applied to the estimated future proceeds.  We are required to make subjective assessments as to whether there are impairments in the value of our real estate assets and other investments.  These assessments have a direct impact on our earnings because recording an impairment charge results in an immediate negative adjustment to earnings.  There can be no assurance that we will not take additional charges in the future. 14. related to the impairment of our assets.  Any future impairment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the charge is taken.. Our capital migration strategy entails various risks.. We intend to sell properties and reinvest those proceeds in the acquisition of higher quality properties in our target markets, the development and redevelopment of our properties, or use the proceeds to pay down debt. While we hope to minimize the dilutive effect of these sales on our earnings, in the near term the returns on the disposed assets are likely to exceed the returns we are able to achieve through the reinvestment of those proceeds. Also, in the event we are unable to sell these assets for amounts equal to or in excess of their current carrying values, we would be required to recognize an impairment charge. Any such impairment charges or earnings dilution could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows and the market price of our publicly traded securities.. Competition and saturation in our existing markets may limit our ability for further growth in these geographic regions.. Numerous commercial developers and real estate companies compete with us seeking properties for acquisition in our existing target markets. This competition may operate to reduce the properties available for acquisition in these markets, increase the cost of the properties we acquire, reduce the rate of return on these properties, and interfere with our ability to attract and retain tenants.. High barriers to entry in the Washington, D.C. to Boston corridor due to mature economies, road patterns, density of population, restrictions on development, and high land costs, coupled with large numbers of often overlapping government jurisdictions, may make it difficult for us to continue to grow in these areas.. Future acquisitions may result in disruptions to our business, may strain management resources and may result in earnings per share and shareholder dilution.. If we acquire a business involving multiple properties, we will be required to integrate the operations, personnel and accounting and information systems of the acquired business and train, retain and motivate any key personnel from the acquired business. In addition, acquisitions of or investments in companies may cause disruptions in our operations and divert management's attention away from day-to-day operations, which could impair our relationships with our current tenants and employees. The issuance of equity or debt securities in connection with any acquisition or investment could be substantially dilutive to our shareholders.. Commercial real estate investments are relatively illiquid.. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid. Our ability to promptly sell one or more properties in our portfolio in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions is limited.  The real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, supply and demand, availability of financing, interest rates and other factors that are beyond our control.  We cannot be certain that we will be able to sell any property for the price and other terms we seek, or that any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us.  We also cannot estimate with certainty the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to complete the sale of a property.  We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold.  Factors that impede our ability to dispose of properties could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. Our business could be negatively affected by shareholder activism, which could impact the trading price and volatility of our common stock.. In recent years, proxy contests and other forms of shareholder activism have been directed against numerous public companies, including us. If a proxy contest or an unsolicited takeover proposal was made with respect to us, we could incur significant costs in defending the Company, which would have an adverse effect on our financial results. Shareholder activists may also seek to involve themselves in the governance, strategic direction and operations of the Company. If individuals are elected to our board of directors with a specific agenda, even though less than a majority, our ability to effectively and timely implement our current initiatives and execute on our long-term strategy may be adversely affected. While we continually and actively engage with shareholders and consider their views on business and strategy, shareholder activism consumes a significant amount of management's attention and other company resources and diverts the attention of management and our employees from our business.. Any perceived uncertainties as to our future direction resulting from such shareholder activism or proxy contest could result in the loss of potential business opportunities, be exploited by our competitors, cause concern to our current or potential customers, and make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners, all of which could adversely affect our business.. 15. Furthermore, actions of activist shareholders may cause significant fluctuations in our stock price based on temporary or speculative market perceptions or other factors that do not necessarily reflect the underlying fundamentals and prospects of our business.. Natural disasters and severe weather conditions could have an adverse impact on our cash flow and operating results.. Some of our properties could be subject to potential natural or other disasters. In addition, we may acquire properties that are located in areas which are subject to natural disasters. Properties could also be affected by increases in the frequency or severity of hurricanes or other storms, whether such increases are caused by global climate changes or other factors. The occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can increase investment costs to repair or replace damaged properties, increase operating costs, increase future property insurance costs, and/or negatively impact the tenant demand for lease space. If insurance is unavailable to us, or is unavailable on acceptable terms, or if our insurance is not adequate to cover business interruption or losses from such events, our earnings, liquidity and/or capital resources could be adversely affected.. Property ownership through joint ventures could limit our control of those investments and reduce their expected return.. As of December 31, 2017, we owned two of our operating properties through consolidated joint ventures. Our joint ventures, and joint ventures we may enter into in the future, may involve risks not present with respect to our wholly owned properties, including the following:. •  we may share decision-making authority with our joint venture partners regarding certain major decisions affecting the ownership or operation of the joint venture and the joint venture property, such as, but not limited to, (1) additional capital contribution requirements, (2) signing of major leases, (3) obtaining debt financing, and (4) obtaining consent prior to the sale or transfer of our interest in the joint venture to a third party, which may prevent us from taking actions that are opposed by our joint venture partners;. •  our joint venture partners might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions, which may increase our financial commitment to the joint venture;. •  our joint venture partners may have business interests or goals with respect to the property that conflict with our business interests and goals, which could increase the likelihood of disputes regarding the ownership, management or disposition of the property;. •  disputes may develop with our joint venture partners over decisions affecting the property or the joint venture, which may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and distract our officers and/or trustees from focusing their time and effort on our business, and possibly disrupt the day-to-day operations of the property such as by delaying the implementation of important decisions until the conflict is resolved; and. •  the activities of a joint venture could adversely affect our ability to qualify as a REIT.. Potential losses may not be covered by insurance.. Potential losses may not be covered by insurance. We carry comprehensive liability, fire, flood, extended coverage and rental loss insurance under a blanket policy covering all of our properties. We believe the policy specifications and insured limits are appropriate and adequate given the relative risk of loss, the cost of the coverage and industry practice. We do not carry insurance for losses related to war, nuclear accidents, and nuclear, biological and chemical occurrences from terrorist's acts. Some of the insurance, such as those covering losses due to wind, floods and earthquakes, is subject to limitations involving large deductibles or co-payments and policy limits that may not be sufficient to cover losses. The availability of insurance coverage may decrease and the prices for insurance may increase as a consequence of significant losses incurred by the insurance industry and other factors outside our control. As a result, we may be unable to renew or duplicate our current insurance coverage in adequate amounts or at reasonable prices. In addition, insurance companies may no longer offer coverage against certain types of losses, such as losses due to terrorist acts and toxic mold, or, if offered, the expense of obtaining these types of insurance may not be justified. Additionally, certain tenants have termination rights in respect of certain casualties. If we receive casualty proceeds, we may not be able to reinvest such proceeds profitably or at all, and we may be forced to recognize taxable gain on the affected property. If we experience losses that are uninsured or that exceed policy limits, we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties as well as the anticipated future cash flows from those properties. Tenants may not properly maintain their insurance policies or have the ability to pay the deductibles associated with such policies.  In addition, if the damaged properties are subject to recourse indebtedness, we would continue to be liable for the indebtedness, even if these properties were irreparably damaged.. 16. We could incur significant costs related to government regulation and litigation over environmental matters and various other federal, state and local regulatory requirements.. All real property and the operations conducted on real property are subject to federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations relating to hazardous materials, environmental protection and human health and safety.  Accordingly, we or our tenants may be required to investigate and clean up certain hazardous or toxic substances released on properties we own or operate, and also may be required to pay other related costs.  Our leases typically impose obligations on our tenants to indemnify us for any compliance costs we may incur as a result of environmental conditions on the property caused by the tenant.  If a tenant fails to or is unable to comply, we could be forced to pay these costs.  If not addressed, environmental conditions could impair our ability to sell or re-lease the affected properties in the future, result in lower sales prices or rent payments, and restrict our ability to borrow funds using the affected properties as collateral.. We could incur significant costs related to government regulations and litigation over environmental matters. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or other contaminants at property owned, leased, managed or otherwise operated by such person, and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, and for investigation, remediation and cleanup costs in connection with such contamination. The cost of investigation, remediation or removal of such substances may be substantial, and the presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate such conditions, may adversely affect the owner's, lessor's or operator's ability to sell or rent such property or to arrange financing using such property as collateral. We may be liable without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the environmental contamination and with respect to properties we have acquired, whether the contamination occurred before or after the acquisition.. We believe environmental studies conducted at the time of acquisition with respect to all of our properties did not reveal any material environmental liabilities for which the Company is responsible, and we are unaware of any subsequent environmental matters that would have created a material liability. If one or more of our properties were not in compliance with federal, state and local laws, including environmental laws, we could be required to incur additional costs to bring the property into compliance. If we incur substantial costs to comply with such requirements, our business and operations could be adversely affected. If we fail to comply with such requirements, we might additionally incur governmental fines or private damage awards. There can be no assurance that existing requirements will not change or that future requirements will not require us to make significant unanticipated expenditures that will adversely impact our business and operations.. The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (the \"ADA\") could require us to take remedial steps with respect to our properties.. Our existing properties, as well as properties we may acquire, may be required to comply with Title III of the ADA. We may incur significant costs to comply with the ADA, as amended, and similar laws, which require that all public accommodations meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons, and with various other federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements.. We face risks relating to cybersecurity attacks, loss of confidential information and other business disruptions.. We rely extensively on computer systems to manage our business and process transactions. Our business is at risk from and may be impacted by cybersecurity attacks, including attempts to gain unauthorized access to our confidential data and other electronic security breaches. Such cyber-attacks can range from individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems to more sophisticated security threats. While we employ a number of measures to prevent, detect and mitigate these threats including password protection, backup servers and annual penetration testing, there is no guarantee such efforts will be successful in preventing a cyber-attack. Cybersecurity incidents, depending on their nature and scope, could potentially lead to the compromise of confidential information, improper use of our systems and networks, manipulation and destruction of data, system downtimes and operational disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our reputation, competitiveness and results of operations. In the event a security breach or failure results in the disclosure of sensitive tenant or other third-party data, or the transmission of harmful/malicious code to third parties, we could be subject to liability or claims.. Furthermore, it is possible that our computer systems, including our back-up systems, could be subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, catastrophic events such as fires, hurricanes, earthquakes and tornadoes, and intentional and inadvertent acts and errors by our employees. If our computer systems cease to function properly or are damaged, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. Any material interruption in our computer systems or issues with the ongoing implementation of newly adopted IT solutions may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations or on our ability to timely and accurately report the results of our operations.. 17. Future terrorist attacks and shooting incidents could harm the demand for, and the value of, our properties.. Future terrorist attacks, such as the number of highly publicized terrorists acts and shootings that have occurred at domestic and international retail properties, could harm the demand for, and the value of, our properties. Terrorist attacks could directly impact the value of our properties through damage, destruction, loss or increased security costs, and the availability of insurance for such acts may be limited or may be subject to substantial cost increases. If such an incident were to occur at one of our properties, we may be subject to significant liability claims. While we attempt to mitigate this risk through insurance coverage and the employment of third party security services where we feel conditions warrant, we cannot guarantee that losses would not exceed applicable insurance coverages, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations and our ability to meet our obligations, including distributions to our shareholders. To the extent that our tenants are impacted by future attacks, their ability to continue to honor obligations under their existing leases could be adversely affected.. We could be subject to litigation that may negatively impact our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.. From time to time, we may be a defendant in lawsuits and regulatory proceedings relating to our business. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such litigation or proceedings. We could experience a negative impact to our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations due to an unfavorable outcome.. Changes in accounting standards may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\"), in conjunction with the SEC, has several key projects on its agenda, some of which have already been adopted, that could impact how we currently account for our material transactions, including, but not limited to, lease accounting, revenue recognition, and other accounting pronouncements disclosed in Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 below. New accounting standards or pronouncements that will become applicable to us, or changes in the interpretation of existing standards and pronouncements, could have a significant adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Qualification as a REIT and other Tax Matters. If we fail to continue as a REIT, our distributions will not be deductible, and our income will be subject to taxation, thereby reducing earnings available for distribution.. If we do not continue to qualify as a REIT, our distributions will not be deductible, and our income will be subject to taxation, reducing earnings available for distribution. We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Code. A REIT will generally not be subject to federal and substantially all state and local income taxation on that portion of its income that qualifies as REIT taxable income, to the extent that it distributes at least 90% of its taxable income to its shareholders and complies with certain other requirements. In addition, we would be subject to a 4% excise tax if we fail to distribute sufficient income to meet a minimum distribution test based on our ordinary income, capital gain and aggregate undistributed income from prior years. If we did not continue to qualify as a REIT, we would also be subject to state and local income taxes in certain of the jurisdictions in which our properties are located. In addition, tax laws would no longer require us to pay any distributions to our shareholders.  Unless we are entitled to relief under specific statutory provisions, we could not elect to be taxed as a REIT again for the four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified. Even if we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we may be subject to certain state and local income and franchise taxes and to federal income and excise taxes on our undistributed taxable income.. We intend to make distributions to shareholders to comply with the requirements of the Code. However, differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash could require us to sell assets, borrow funds or pay a portion of the dividend in common stock to meet the 90% distribution requirement of the Code. Certain assets generate substantial differences between taxable income and income recognized in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (\"GAAP\"). Such assets include, without limitation, operating real estate that was acquired through structures that may limit or completely eliminate the depreciation deduction that would otherwise be available for income tax purposes. As a result, the Code requirement to distribute a substantial portion of our otherwise net taxable income in order to maintain REIT status could cause us to (1) distribute amounts that could otherwise be used for future acquisitions, capital expenditures or repayment of debt, (2) borrow on unfavorable terms, (3) sell assets on unfavorable terms, or (4) if necessary, pay a portion of our common dividend in common stock.  If we fail to obtain debt or equity capital in the future, it could limit our operations and our ability to grow, which could have a material adverse effect on the value of our common stock.. 18. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities and limit our growth opportunities.. In order to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, our sources of income, the nature of our investments in commercial real estate and related assets, the amounts we distribute to shareholders and the ownership of our stock. We may also be required to make distributions to shareholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Thus, compliance with REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits.. Frequent asset sales could trigger adverse tax consequences.. Tax laws applicable to REITs require that we hold our properties for investment, rather than primarily for sale in the ordinary course of business, which may cause us to forego or defer sales of properties that otherwise would be in our best interest. Therefore, we may be unable to adjust our portfolio mix promptly in response to market conditions, which may adversely affect our financial position.. To qualify as a REIT, we must comply with requirements regarding our assets and our sources of income. We may be unable to comply with these requirements, ultimately jeopardizing our qualification as a REIT, or we may be subject to a 100% tax on any resultant gain if we sell assets that are treated as dealer property or inventory.. In addition, the sale of our properties may generate gains for tax purposes which, if not adequately deferred through \"like kind exchanges\" under Section 1031 of the Code or other tax deference strategies, could require us to pay income taxes or make additional distributions to our shareholders, thus reducing our capital available for investment in other properties, or if the proceeds of such sales are already invested in other properties, require us to obtain additional funds to pay such taxes or make such distributions, in either such case to permit us to maintain our status as a REIT.. Failure to qualify as a domestically-controlled REIT could subject our non-U.S. shareholders to adverse federal income tax consequences.. We will be a domestically-controlled REIT if, at all times during a specified testing period, less than 50% in value of its shares are held directly or indirectly by non-U.S. shareholders. Because our shares are publicly traded, we cannot guarantee that we will, in fact, be a domestically-controlled REIT. If we fail to qualify as a domestically-controlled REIT, our non-U.S. shareholders that otherwise would not be subject to federal income tax on the gain attributable to a sale of our shares would be subject to taxation upon such a sale if either (a) the shares were not considered to be \"regularly traded\" under applicable Treasury regulations on an established securities market, such as the NYSE, or (b) the shares were considered to be \"regularly traded\" on an established securities market and the selling non-U.S. shareholder owned, actually or constructively, more than 5% (10% on or after December 18, 2016) in value of the outstanding shares at any time during specified testing periods. If gain on the sale or exchange of our shares was subject to taxation for these reasons, the non-U.S. shareholder would be subject to federal income tax with respect to any gain on a net basis in a manner similar to the taxation of a taxable U.S. shareholder, subject to any applicable alternative minimum tax and special alternative minimum tax in the case of nonresident alien individuals, and corporate non-U.S. shareholders may be subject to an additional branch profits tax.. We may choose to make distributions in our own stock, in which case you may be required to pay income taxes without receiving any cash dividends.. In connection with our qualification as a REIT, we are required to annually distribute to our shareholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (which does not equal net income, as calculated in accordance with GAAP), determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. In order to satisfy this requirement, we may make distributions that are payable in cash and/or shares of our stock (which could account for up to 90% of the aggregate amount of such distributions) at the election of each shareholder. Taxable shareholders receiving such distributions will be required to include the full amount of such distributions as ordinary dividend income to the extent of our current or accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, U.S. shareholders may be required to pay income taxes with respect to such distributions in excess of the cash portion of the distribution received. Accordingly, U.S. shareholders receiving a distribution of our shares may be required to sell shares received in such distribution or may be required to sell other stock or assets owned by them, at a time that may be disadvantageous, in order to satisfy any tax imposed on such distribution. If a U.S. shareholder sells the stock that it receives as part of the distribution in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount it must include in income with respect to the distribution, depending on the market price of our stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to certain non-U.S. shareholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such distribution, including in respect of all or a portion of such distribution that is payable in stock, by withholding or disposing of part of the shares included in such distribution and using the. 19. proceeds of such disposition to satisfy the withholding tax imposed. In addition, if a significant number of our shareholders determine to sell shares of our stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividend income, such sale may put downward pressure on the market price of our stock.. Various tax aspects of such a taxable cash/stock distribution are uncertain and have not yet been addressed by the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\"). No assurance can be given that the IRS will not impose requirements in the future with respect to taxable cash/stock distributions, including on a retroactive basis, or assert that the requirements for such taxable cash/stock distributions have not been met.. Dividends paid by REITs generally do not qualify for reduced tax rates.. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for reduced tax rates under the Code.  For the calendar year 2017, the maximum federal individual tax rate for nonqualified dividends payable is 39.6%; qualified dividends from most C corporations received by individuals are subject to a reduced maximum federal rate of 20%.  In addition to these rates, certain high income individuals may be subject to an additional 3.8% tax on certain investment income, including dividends and capital gains. As a REIT, our distributions to individual shareholders generally are not eligible for the reduced rates and are, consequently, taxed at ordinary income rates. The more favorable federal tax rates applicable to regular corporate dividends may result in the stock of REITs being perceived to be less attractive than the stock of corporations that pay dividends qualifying for reduced rates of tax, which may adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs.. Changes to the federal, state and municipality tax laws could have a significant negative impact on the overall economy, our tenants, and our business.. At any time, the federal income tax laws or regulations governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws or regulations may be amended. We cannot predict when or if any new federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective and any such law, regulation or interpretation may take effect retroactively. A shortfall in tax revenues for states and municipalities in which we operate may lead to changes in state and municipalities tax laws. We and our shareholders could be adversely affected by any such change in, or any new, federal income tax law, regulation, or administrative interpretation.. In December 2017 the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"TCJA\") was signed into law. The provisions of the TCJA  are far-reaching and generally apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, while many provisions, in particular those affecting individual taxpayers, expire at the end of 2025. As a result of the changes implemented by the TCJA, our taxable income and the amount of distributions to our shareholders required in order to maintain our REIT status, and our relative tax advantage as a REIT, may significantly change. As a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our taxable income to our shareholders annually. Among other things, the TCJA:. •  reduces the corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% (including taxable REIT subsidiaries of which ours currently do not have significant taxable income);. •  reduces the rate of U.S. federal withholding tax on distributions made to non-U.S. shareholders by a REIT that are attributable to gains from the sale or exchange of U.S. real property interests from 35% to 21%;. •  reduces the recovery periods for certain real property and building improvements;. •  limits the deduction for net interest expense incurred by a business to 30% of the \"adjusted taxable income\" of the taxpayer, except, among others, certain real property businesses electing to not be subject to the limitation. Making this election requires the electing real property trade or business to depreciate non-residential real property, residential rental property, and qualified improvement property over a longer period using the alternative depreciation system. We have not yet determined whether to make any such available elections;. •  requires the use of the less favorable alternative depreciation system to depreciate real property in the event a real property business elects to avoid the interest deduction restriction above;. •  restricts the benefits of like-kind exchanges that defer capital gains for tax purposes to only exchanges of real property;. •  reduces the highest marginal income tax rate for individuals to 37.0% from 39.6% (excluding, in each case, the 3.8% Medicare tax on net investment income);. •  reduces the net operating loss deduction to 80% of taxable income (where taxable income is determined without regard to the net operating loss deduction itself), generally eliminates net operating loss carrybacks and allows unused net operating losses to be carried forward;. 20. •  generally allows a deduction for individuals equal to 20% of certain income from pass-through entities, including ordinary dividends distributed by a REIT (excluding capital gain dividends and qualified dividend income), generally resulting in a maximum effective federal income tax rate applicable to such dividends of 29.6% compared to 37.0% (excluding, in each case, the 3.8% Medicare tax on net investment income); and. •  limits certain deductions for individuals, including deductions for state and local income taxes, and eliminates deductions for miscellaneous itemized deductions (including certain investment expenses).. The TCJA is a complex revision to the U.S. federal income tax laws with contrasting impacts on different categories of taxpayers and industries, and will require subsequent rulemaking and interpretation in a number of areas. The long-term impact of the TCJA on the overall economy and the real estate industry cannot be predicted at this early stage. Furthermore, the TCJA may negatively impact certain of our tenants' operating results, financial condition, and future business plans. There can be no assurance that the TCJA will not negatively impact our operating results, financial condition, and future business operations.. Shareholders are urged to consult with their own tax advisors with respect to the impact that the TCJA and other legislation may have on their investment and the status of legislative, regulatory or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on their investment in our shares.. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure. Our charter and Maryland law contain provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a change of control transaction and depress our stock price.. Our charter and Maryland law contain provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a change of control transaction and depress the price of our common stock. The charter, subject to certain exceptions, authorizes directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable relating to qualification as a REIT, and to limit any person to beneficial ownership of no more than 9.9% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. This ownership limit may delay or impede a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interests of shareholders. Our Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, may exempt a proposed transferee from the ownership limit, but not grant an exemption from the ownership limit to any proposed transferee whose direct or indirect ownership could jeopardize our status as a REIT. These restrictions on transferability and ownership will not apply if our Board of Directors determines that it is no longer in our best interests to continue to qualify as, or to be, a REIT. Our Board of Directors has waived the ownership limit to permit certain institutional investors to own common stock in excess of the ownership limit and may grant additional waivers in the future as long as the Company is able to maintain its REIT status.  This concentration of ownership could deprive other shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares of common stock as part of a sale of our Company and ultimately might affect the market price of our common stock.. We may authorize and issue stock and OP Units without shareholder approval. Our charter authorizes the Board of Directors to issue additional shares of common or preferred stock, to issue additional OP Units, to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common or preferred stock, and to set the preferences, rights and other terms of such classified or unclassified shares. We have agreed not to use our preferred stock for anti-takeover purposes or in connection with a shareholder rights plan unless we obtain shareholder approval. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law (the \"MGCL\") may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change of control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of shares of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of such shares, including:. •  \"business combination\" provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an \"interested stockholder\" (defined generally as any person or an affiliate thereof who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares) for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter imposes special appraisal rights and special stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and. •  \"control share\" provisions that provide that our \"control shares\" (defined as shares that, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a \"control share acquisition\" (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of control shares) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our shareholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares.. 21. We have opted out of these provisions of the MGCL. However, the Board of Directors may, by resolution, elect to opt in to the business combination provisions of the MGCL, and we may, by amendment to our bylaws, opt in to the control share provisions of the MGCL.. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by the requirements of Maryland law.. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is limited by the laws of the State of Maryland. Under applicable Maryland law, a Maryland corporation generally may not make a distribution if, after giving effect to the distribution, the corporation would not be able to pay its debts as they become due in the usual course of business, or the value of the corporation's total assets would be less than the sum of its total liabilities plus, unless the corporation's charter provides otherwise, the amount that would be needed, if the corporation were dissolved at the time of the distribution, to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution of shareholders whose preferential rights are superior to those receiving the distribution. Accordingly, we generally may not make a distribution on our common stock if, after giving effect to the distribution, we would not be able to pay our debts as they become due in the usual course of business or our total assets would be less than the sum of our total liabilities plus, unless the terms of such class or series provide otherwise, the amount that would be needed to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution of the holders of shares of any class or series of preferred stock then outstanding, if any, with preferences senior to those of our common stock.. Our Board of Directors may change our strategy without shareholder approval.. Our Board of Directors may change our strategy with respect to capitalization, investment, distributions and/or operations. Our Board of Directors may establish investment criteria or limitations as it deems appropriate, but currently does not limit the number or types of properties in which we may seek to invest or the concentration of investments in any one geographic region or the amount of development or redevelopment activity occurring across our portfolio. Although our Board of Directors has no present intention to revise or amend our strategies and policies, it may do so at any time without a vote by our shareholders. Accordingly, the results of decisions made by our Board of Directors and implemented by management could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations, including our ability to distribute cash to shareholders or qualify as a REIT.. The rights of shareholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited.. Maryland law provides that a director or officer has no liability in that capacity if he or she satisfies his or her duties to us and our shareholders. As permitted by the MGCL, our charter limits the liability of our directors and officers to us and our shareholders for monetary damages, except for liability resulting from actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or service, or a final judgment based upon a finding of active and deliberate dishonesty by the director or officer that was material to the cause of action adjudicated.. In addition, our charter and bylaws, as well as indemnification agreements that we have entered into with certain of our officers require us to indemnify our directors and officers, among others, for actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. As a result, we and our shareholders may have more limited rights against our directors and officers than might otherwise exist for companies organized in other jurisdictions. Accordingly, in the event that actions taken in good faith by any of our directors or officers impede the performance of our company, your ability to recover damages from such director or officer will be limited. In addition, we will be obligated to advance the defense costs incurred by our directors and officers with indemnification agreements, and may, at the discretion of our Board of Directors, advance the defense costs incurred by our employees and other agents, in connection with legal proceedings.. 22. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. The market value of our debt and equity securities is subject to various factors that may cause significant fluctuations or volatility.. As with other publicly traded securities, the market price of our publicly traded securities depends on various factors which may change from time-to time and are often out of our control. Among the conditions that may affect the market price of our publicly traded securities are the following:. •  the extent of institutional investor interest in us;. •  the market perception of our business compared to other REITS;. •  the market perception of retail REITs, in general, compared to other investment alternatives;. •  our financial condition and performance, including changes in our funds from operations, operating funds from operations,  or earnings estimates;. •  the market's perception of our growth potential and potential future cash dividends;. •  publication of research reports about us or our industry by securities analysts;. •  speculation in the press or investment community;. •  the passage of legislation or other regulatory developments that adversely affect us, our tax status, or our industry;. •  our credit or analyst ratings;. •  any future issuances of equity or debt securities;. •  our failure to satisfy the listing requirements of the NYSE. •  our failure to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act;. •  additions or departures of key management personnel;. •  strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings;. •  an increase in market interest rates;. •  our ability to access the capital markets to raise additional capital; and. •  general economic and financial market conditions.. These factors may cause the market price of our common stock to decline, in some cases regardless of our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. It is impossible to ensure that the market price of our common stock will not fall in the future. A decrease in the market price of our common stock could reduce our ability to raise additional equity in the public markets. Selling common stock at a decreased market price would have a dilutive impact on existing shareholders.. Future offerings of debt securities, which would be senior to our common and preferred stock, or equity securities, which would dilute the interests of our existing shareholders and may be senior to our existing common stock, may adversely affect the market prices of our common and preferred stock.. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by making additional offerings of debt or equity securities, including senior or subordinated notes and classes of preferred or common stock. Holders of debt securities or shares of preferred stock will generally be entitled to receive interest payments or distributions, both current and in connection with any liquidation or sale, prior to the holders of our common stock. Furthermore, offerings of common stock or other equity securities may dilute the holdings of our existing shareholders. We are not required to offer any such equity securities to existing shareholders on a preemptive basis, and future offerings of debt or equity securities, or perceptions that such offerings may occur, may reduce the market prices of our common and preferred stock or the distributions that we pay with respect to our common stock. Because we may generally issue any such debt or equity securities in the future without obtaining the consent of our shareholders, our shareholders bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market prices of our common and preferred stock and diluting their proportionate ownership."
