[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Many factors could have an effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We are subject to various risks resulting from changing economic, environmental, political, industry, business, financial and regulatory conditions. The factors described below represent our principal risks.. Risks Related to Our Business. We are exposed to general economic, political and regulatory conditions and risks in the countries in which we have operations and customers.. We operate globally and have customers in many countries. Our major facilities are primarily located in North America, Europe and Asia, and we hold interests in affiliates that operate in the United States (\"US\"), Germany, China, Japan, Malaysia, South Korea and Saudi Arabia. Our principal customers are similarly global in scope and the prices of our most significant products are typically regional or world market prices. Consequently, our business and financial results are affected, directly and indirectly, by world economic conditions, including instability in credit markets, declining consumer and business confidence, fluctuating commodity prices and interest rates, volatile exchange rates and other challenges such as the changing regulatory environment.. Our operations are also subject to global political conditions. For example, any future withdrawal or renegotiation of trade agreements or the more aggressive prosecution of trade disputes with countries like China, may adversely affect our ability to operate our business and execute our growth strategy. In addition, it may be more difficult for us to enforce agreements, collect receivables, receive dividends and repatriate earnings through foreign legal systems. In certain foreign jurisdictions our operations are subject to nationalization and expropriation risk and some of our contractual relationships within these jurisdictions are subject to cancellation without full compensation for loss. Furthermore, in certain cases where we benefit from local government subsidies or other undertakings, such benefits are subject to the solvency of local government entities and are subject to termination without meaningful recourse or remedies.. We have invested significant resources in China and other Asian countries. This region's growth may slow, and we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits associated with our investment there and, consequently, our financial results may be adversely impacted.. In addition, we have significant operations and financial relationships based in Europe. Historically sales originating in Europe have accounted for over one-third of our net sales. For example, in 2017, sales originating in Europe accounted for approximately 40% of our net sales. Adverse conditions in the European economy related to the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union (\"EU\") membership or otherwise may negatively impact our overall financial results due to reduced economic growth and resulting in decreased end-use customer demand.. We are subject to risks associated with the increased volatility in the prices and availability of key raw materials and energy, which could have a significant adverse effect on the margins of our products and our financial results.. We purchase significant amounts of ethylene, methanol, carbon monoxide and natural gas from third parties primarily for use in our production of basic chemicals in the Acetyl Intermediates segment, principally acetic acid, vinyl acetate monomer (\"VAM\") and formaldehyde. We use a portion of our output of these chemicals, in turn, as inputs in the production of downstream products in all of our business segments. We also purchase some of these raw materials for use in our Industrial Specialties segment, primarily for vinyl acetate ethylene emulsions and ethylene vinyl acetate production, as well as significant amounts of wood pulp for use in our production of cellulose derivatives in our Consumer Specialties segment. The price of many of these items is dependent on the available supply of that item and may increase significantly as a result of uncertainties associated with war, terrorist activities, civil unrest, epidemics, pandemics, weather, natural disasters, the effects of climate change or political instability, plant or production disruptions, strikes or other labor unrest, breakdown or degradation of transportation infrastructure used in the delivery of strategic raw materials and energy commodities, or changes in laws or regulations in any of the countries in which we have significant suppliers. In particular, to the extent of our vertical integration in the production of chemicals, shortages in the availability of raw material chemicals, such as natural gas, ethylene and methanol, or the loss of our dedicated supplies of carbon monoxide, may have an increased adverse impact on us as it can cause a shortage in intermediate and finished products. Such shortages would adversely impact our ability to produce certain products and increase our costs resulting in reduced margins and adverse financial results.. We are exposed to volatility in the prices of our raw materials and energy. Although we have long-term supply agreements, multi-year purchasing and sales agreements and forward purchase contracts providing for the supply of ethylene, methanol,. 18. Table of Contents. carbon monoxide, wood pulp, natural gas and electricity, the contractual prices for these raw materials and energy can vary with economic conditions and may be highly volatile. In addition to the factors noted above that may impact supply or price, factors that have caused volatility in our raw material prices in the past and which may do so in the future include:. • Shortages of raw materials due to increasing demand, e.g., from growing uses or new uses;. • Capacity constraints, e.g., due to construction delays, labor disruption, involuntary shutdowns or turnarounds;. • The inability of a supplier to meet our delivery orders or a supplier's choice not to fulfill orders or to terminate a supply contract or our inability to obtain or renew supply contracts on favorable terms;. • The general level of business and economic activity; and. • The direct or indirect effect of governmental regulation (including the impact of government regulation relating to climate change).. If we are not able to fully offset the effects of higher energy and raw material costs through price increases, productivity improvements or cost reduction programs, or if such commodities become unavailable, it could have a significant adverse effect on our ability to timely and profitably manufacture and deliver our products resulting in reduced margins and adverse financial results.. We have a practice of maintaining, when available, multiple sources of supply for raw materials and services. However, some of our individual plants may have single sources of supply for some of their raw materials, such as carbon monoxide, steam and ethylene, or services. Although we have been able to obtain sufficient supplies of raw materials and services, there can be no assurance that unforeseen developments will not affect our ability to source raw materials or services in the future. Even if we have multiple sources of supply for a raw material or a service, there can be no assurance that these sources can make up for the loss of a major supplier. Furthermore, if any sole source or major supplier were unable or unwilling to deliver a raw material or a service for an extended period of time, we may not be able to find an acceptable alternative or any such alternative could result in increased costs. It is also possible profitability will be adversely affected if we are required to qualify additional sources of supply for a raw material or a service to our specifications in the event of the loss of a sole source or major supplier.. A portion of our supply of methanol in North America is currently obtained from our joint venture, Fairway Methanol LLC (\"Fairway\"), with Mitsui & Co., Ltd., of Tokyo, Japan, in which we own a 50% interest, for the production of methanol at our integrated chemical plant in Clear Lake, Texas.. Production at our manufacturing facilities, or at our suppliers', could be disrupted for a variety of reasons, which could prevent us from producing enough of our products to maintain our sales and satisfy our customers' demands.. A disruption in production at one or more of our manufacturing facilities, or our suppliers, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Disruptions could occur for many reasons, including fire, natural disasters, weather, unplanned maintenance or other manufacturing problems, disease, strikes or other labor unrest, transportation interruption, government regulation, political unrest or terrorism. Alternative facilities with sufficient capacity or capabilities may not be available, may cost substantially more or may take a significant time to start production, each of which could negatively affect our business and financial performance. If one of our key manufacturing facilities is unable to produce our products for an extended period of time, our sales may be reduced by the shortfall caused by the disruption and we may not be able to meet our customers' needs, which could cause them to seek other suppliers. In particular, production disruptions at our manufacturing facilities that produce chemicals used as inputs in the production of chemicals in other business segments, such as acetic acid, VAM and formaldehyde, could have a more significant adverse effect on our business and financial performance and results of operations to the extent of such vertical integration. Furthermore, to the extent a production disruption occurs at a manufacturing facility that has been operating at or near full capacity, the resulting shortage of our product could be particularly harmful because production at such manufacturing facility may not be able to reach levels achieved prior to the disruption.. Failure to develop new products and production technologies or to implement productivity and cost reduction initiatives successfully, may harm our competitive position.. Our operating results depend significantly on the development of commercially viable new products, product grades and applications, as well as process technologies, free of any legal restrictions. If we are unsuccessful in developing new products, applications and production processes in the future, including failing to leverage our opportunity pipeline in our Advanced Engineered Materials segment, our competitive position and operating results may be negatively affected. However, as we invest in new technology, we face the risk of unanticipated operational or commercialization difficulties, including an inability. 19. Table of Contents. to obtain necessary permits or governmental approvals, the development of competing technologies, failure of facilities or processes to operate in accordance with specifications or expectations, construction delays, cost over-runs, the unavailability of financing, required materials or equipment and various other factors. Likewise, we have undertaken and are continuing to undertake initiatives in all of our business segments to improve productivity and performance and to generate cost savings. These initiatives may not be completed or beneficial or the estimated cost savings from such activities may not be realized.. Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims and recalls, which could adversely affect our financial condition and performance.. The development, manufacture and sale of specialty chemical products by us, including products produced for the food and beverage, cigarette, automobile, construction, aerospace, medical device and pharmaceutical industries, involves a risk of exposure to product liability claims, product recalls, product seizures and related adverse publicity. A product liability claim or judgment against us could also result in substantial and unexpected expenditures, affect consumer or customer confidence in our products, and divert management's attention from other responsibilities. Although we maintain product liability insurance, there can be no assurance that this type or the level of coverage is adequate or that we will be able to continue to maintain our existing insurance or obtain comparable insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. A product recall or a partially or completely uninsured judgment against us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Although we have standard contracting policies and controls, we may not always be able to contractually limit our exposure to third party claims should our failure to perform result in downstream supply disruptions or product recalls.. We could be subject to damages based on claims brought against us by our customers or lose customers as a result of the failure of our products to meet certain quality specifications.. Our products provide important performance attributes to our customers' products. If one of our products fails to perform in a manner consistent with quality specifications, a customer could seek replacement of the product or damages for costs incurred as a result of the product failing to perform as guaranteed. A successful claim or series of claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could result in a loss of one or more key customers.. Our future success depends in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights and our rights to use our intellectual property. Our inability to protect and enforce these rights could reduce our ability to maintain our industry position and our profit margins.. We rely on our patents, trademarks, copyrights, know-how and trade secrets and patents and other technology licensed from third parties to protect our investment in research and development and our competitive commercial positions in manufacturing and marketing our products. We have adopted internal policies for protecting our know-how and trade secrets. In addition, our practice is to seek patent or trade secret protection for significant developments that provide us competitive advantages and freedom to practice for our businesses. Patents may cover catalysts, processes, products, intermediate products and product uses. These patents are usually filed in strategic countries throughout the world and provide varying periods and scopes of protection based on the filing date and the type of patent application. The legal life and scope of protection provided by a patent may vary among those countries in which we seek protection. As patents expire, the catalysts, processes, products, intermediate products and product uses described and claimed in those patents generally may become available for use by the public subject to our continued protection for associated know-how and trade secrets. We also monitor intellectual property of others, especially patents that could impact our rights to commercially implement research and development, our rights to manufacture and market our products, and our rights to use know-how and trade secrets. We will not intentionally infringe upon the valid intellectual property rights of others, and we will continue to assess and take actions as necessary to protect our positions. We also seek to register trademarks as a means of protecting the brand names of our products, which brand names become more important once the corresponding product or process patents have expired. We operate in regions of the world where intellectual property protection may be limited and difficult to enforce and our continued growth strategy may result in us seeking intellectual property protection in additional regions with similar challenges. We also monitor the trademarks of others and take action when our trademark rights are being infringed upon. If we are not successful in protecting or maintaining our patent, license, trademark or other intellectual property rights, or protecting our rights to commercially make, market and sell our products, our net sales, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected.. 20. Table of Contents. Our business is exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness of our suppliers, customers and business partners and the industries in which our suppliers, customers and business partners participate are cyclical in nature, both of which may adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our business is exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness of our key suppliers, customers and business partners and reductions in demand for our customers' products. These risks include the interruption of production at the facilities of our customers, the reduction, delay or cancellation of customer orders, delays in or the inability of customers to obtain financing to purchase our products, delays in or interruptions of the supply of raw materials we purchase and bankruptcy of customers, suppliers or other creditors. Furthermore, some of the industries in which our end-use customers participate, such as the automotive, electrical, construction and textile industries, are highly competitive, to a large extent driven by end-use applications, and may experience overcapacity, all of which may affect demand for and the pricing of our products. In addition, many of these industries are cyclical in nature, thus posing risks to us that vary throughout the year. The occurrence of any of these events may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability and financial condition.. Failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations and/or changes in applicable laws or regulations may adversely affect our business and financial results as a whole.. We are subject to extensive international, national, state, local and other laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these laws, including antitrust and anticorruption laws, rules, regulations or court decisions, could expose us to fines, penalties and other costs. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, rules, regulations and court decisions, there can be no assurance that our employees and business partners and other third parties acting on our behalf will comply with these laws, rules, regulations and court decisions, which could result in fines, penalties and costs and damage to our business reputation.. Moreover, changes in laws or regulations, including the more aggressive enforcement of such laws and regulations, such as unexpected changes in regulatory requirements (including import or export licensing requirements), or changes in reporting requirements of the US, Canadian, Mexican, German, EU or Asian governmental agencies, could increase the cost of doing business in these regions. Any of these conditions, including the failure to obtain or maintain operating permits for our business, may have an effect on our business and financial results as a whole and may result in volatile current and future prices for our securities, including our stock.. Environmental regulations and other obligations relating to environmental matters could subject us to liability for fines, clean-ups and other damages, require us to incur significant costs to modify our operations and increase our manufacturing and delivery costs.. Costs related to our compliance with environmental laws and regulations, and potential obligations with respect to sites currently or formerly owned or operated by us, may have a significant negative impact on our operating results. We also have obligations related to the indemnity agreement contained in the demerger and transfer agreement between Celanese GmbH and Hoechst AG for environmental matters arising out of certain divestitures that took place prior to the demerger.. Our operations are subject to extensive international, national, state, local and other laws and regulations that govern environmental and health and safety matters. We incur substantial capital and other costs to comply with these requirements. If we violate any one of those laws or regulations, we can be held liable for substantial fines and other sanctions, including limitations on our operations as a result of changes to or revocations of environmental permits involved. Stricter environmental, safety and health laws and regulations could result in substantial costs and liabilities to us or limitations on our operations. Consequently, compliance with these laws and regulations may negatively affect our earnings and cash flows in a particular reporting period. See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources for further information.. Changes in environmental, health and safety regulations in the jurisdictions where we manufacture or sell our products could lead to a decrease in demand for our products.. New or revised governmental regulations and independent studies relating to the effect of our products on health, safety or the environment may affect demand for our products and the cost of producing our products. In addition, products we produce, including VAM, formaldehyde and plastics derived from formaldehyde, may be classified in a manner that would adversely affect demand for such products. For example, the International Agency for Research on Cancer (\"IARC\"), a private research agency, classified formaldehyde as carcinogenic to humans (Group 1) based on studies linking formaldehyde exposure to nasopharyngeal cancer, a rare cancer in humans. In addition, several studies have investigated possible links between formaldehyde exposure and various end points, including leukemia. In October 2009, IARC concluded that there is sufficient. 21. Table of Contents. evidence of a causal association between formaldehyde and the development of leukemia. In 2011, the National Toxicology Program (\"NTP\") released the 12th report on carcinogens, which changed the classification of formaldehyde from \"reasonably anticipated to be a human carcinogen\" to \"known to be a human carcinogen\". Similar to the IARC modification in 2009, the NTP report also implicates formaldehyde as a leukemogen. We anticipate that the results of the IARC's and the NTP's reviews will be examined and considered by government agencies with responsibility for setting worker and environmental exposure standards and labeling requirements.. Other pending initiatives potentially will require toxicological testing and risk assessments of a wide variety of chemicals, including chemicals used or produced by us. These initiatives include the Voluntary Children's Chemical Evaluation Program, High Production Volume Chemical Initiative and expected modifications to the Toxic Substances Control Act in the US, as well as various European Commission programs, such as the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals, and new initiatives in Asia and other regions. These assessments may result in heightened concerns about the chemicals involved and additional requirements being placed on the production, handling, labeling or use of the subject chemicals. Such concerns and additional requirements could also increase the cost incurred by our customers to use our chemical products and otherwise limit the use of these products, which could lead to a decrease in demand for these products. Such a decrease in demand would likely have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. Our production facilities, including facilities we own and/or operate and operations at our facilities owned and/or operated by third parties, handle the processing of some volatile and hazardous materials that subject us to operating and other risks that could have a negative effect on our operating results.. Although we take precautions to enhance the safety of, and minimize the disruption to, our operations and operations at our facilities owned and/or operated by third parties, we are subject to operating and other risks associated with chemical manufacturing, including the storage and transportation of raw materials, finished products and waste. These risks include, among other things, pipeline and storage tank leaks and ruptures, explosions and fires and discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances. In addition, we may have limited control over operations at our facilities owned and/or operated by third parties or such operations may not be fully integrated into our safety programs.. These operating and other risks can cause personal injury, property damage, third-party damages and environmental contamination, and may result in the shutdown of affected facilities and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. The occurrence of any of these events may disrupt production and have a negative effect on the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility, our operating results and cash flows.. US federal regulations aimed at increasing security at certain chemical production plants and similar legislation that may be proposed in the future, if passed into law, may increase our operating costs and cause an adverse effect on our results of operations.. The Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards program (\"CFATS Program\"), which is administered by the Department of Homeland Security (\"DHS\"), identifies and regulates chemical facilities to ensure that they have security measures in place to reduce the risks associated with potential terrorist attacks on chemical plants located in the US. In December 2014, the Protecting and Securing Chemical Facilities from Terrorist Attacks Act of 2014 (\"CFATS Act\") was enacted. The CFATS Act reauthorizes the CFATS Program for four years. DHS has released an interim final rule under the CFATS Program that imposes comprehensive federal security regulations for high-risk chemical facilities in possession of specified quantities of chemicals of interest. This rule establishes risk-based performance standards for the security of our nation's chemical facilities. It requires covered chemical facilities to prepare Security Vulnerability Assessments, which identify facility security vulnerabilities, and to develop and implement Site Security Plans, which include measures that satisfy the identified risk-based performance standards. We cannot determine with certainty the costs associated with any security measures that DHS may require.. We are subject to risks associated with possible climate change legislation, regulation and international accords.. Greenhouse gas emissions have become the subject of a large amount of international, national, regional, state and local attention. For example, the Environmental Protection Agency has promulgated rules concerning greenhouse gas emissions and cap and trade initiatives to limit greenhouse gas emissions have been introduced in the EU. In addition, regulation of greenhouse gas also could occur pursuant to future treaty obligations, statutory or regulatory changes or new climate change legislation. As such, future environmental legislative and regulatory developments related to climate change are possible, which could materially increase operating costs in the chemical industry and thereby increase our manufacturing and delivery costs.. 22. Table of Contents. Our business and financial results may be adversely affected by various legal and regulatory proceedings.. We are involved in legal and regulatory proceedings, lawsuits, claims and investigations in the normal course of business and could become subject to additional claims in the future, some of which could be material. The outcome of existing proceedings, lawsuits, claims and investigations may differ from our expectations because the outcomes of such proceedings, including regulatory matters, are often difficult to reliably predict. Various factors or developments can lead us to change current estimates of liabilities and related insurance receivables where applicable, or permit us to make such estimates for matters previously not susceptible to reasonable estimates, such as a significant judicial ruling or judgment, a significant settlement, significant regulatory developments, or changes in applicable law. A future adverse ruling, settlement, or unfavorable development could result in charges that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition in any particular period. See Note 16 - Environmental and Note 24 - Commitments and Contingencies in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.. Changes in, or the interpretation of, tax legislation or rates throughout the world could materially impact our results.. Our future effective tax rate and related tax balance sheet attributes could be impacted by changes in tax legislation throughout the world. The overall tax environment has made it increasingly challenging for multinational corporations to operate with certainty about taxation in many jurisdictions. For example, the European Commission has been conducting investigations focusing on whether local country tax rulings or tax legislation provide preferential tax treatment that violates EU state aid rules. In addition, the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development, which represents a coalition of member countries, is supporting changes to numerous long-standing tax principles through its base erosion and profit shifting project, which is focused on a number of issues, including the shifting of profits among affiliated entities located in different tax jurisdictions. Furthermore, a number of countries where we do business, including the US and many countries in the EU, are considering changes in relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations and interpretations, including changes to tax laws applicable to multinational corporations. The increasingly complex global tax environment could have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rate, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"TCJA\") was enacted and is effective January 1, 2018. Accounting Standards Codification 740, Accounting for Income Taxes, requires companies to recognize the effects of tax law changes in the period of enactment. This overhaul of the US tax law made a number of substantial changes, including the reduction of the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, establishing a dividends received deduction for dividends paid by foreign subsidiaries to the US, elimination or limitation of certain deductions (interest, domestic production activities and executive compensation), imposing a mandatory tax on previously unrepatriated earnings accumulated offshore since 1986 and establishing global minimum income tax and base erosion tax provisions related to offshore activities and affiliated party payments. Due to the timing of the new tax law and the substantial changes it brings, the Staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the \"SEC\") issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (\"SAB 118\"), which provides registrants a measurement period to report the impact of the new US tax law. As a result, the recorded and estimated impacts of TCJA may change in future periods. See Note 19 - Income Taxes in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.. Our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, expirations of tax holidays or rulings, changes in the assessment regarding the realization of deferred tax assets, or changes in tax laws and regulations or their interpretation. We are subject to the regular examination of our income tax returns by various tax authorities. Examinations in material jurisdictions or changes in laws, rules, regulations or interpretations by local taxing authorities could result in impacts to tax years open under statute or to foreign operating structures currently in place. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations or changes in laws, rules, regulations or interpretations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. It is possible the outcomes from these examinations will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.. Our significant non-US operations expose us to global exchange rate fluctuations that could adversely impact our profitability.. We conduct a significant portion of our operations outside the US. Consequently, fluctuations in currencies of other countries, especially the Euro, may materially affect our operating results. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars, we must translate revenues, income and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into US dollars based on average exchange rates prevailing during the reporting period or the exchange rate at the end of that period. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the US dollar against other major currencies will affect our net operating revenues, operating income and the cost of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange rates can also impact the competitiveness of products produced in certain jurisdictions and exported for sale into other jurisdictions. These changes may impact the value received for the sale of our goods versus those of our competitors.. 23. Table of Contents. In addition to currency translation risks, we incur a currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into a purchase or sales transaction using a currency different from the operating subsidiary's functional currency. Given the volatility of exchange rates, particularly the strengthening of the US dollar against major currencies or the currencies of large developing countries, we may not be able to manage our currency transaction and translation risks effectively.. We use financial instruments to hedge certain exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, but those hedges in most cases cover existing balance sheet exposures and not future transactional exposures. We cannot guarantee that our hedging strategies will be effective. In addition, the use of financial instruments creates counterparty settlement risk. Failure to effectively manage these risks could have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. We are subject to information technology security threats that could materially affect our business.. We have been and will continue to be subject to advanced persistent information technology security threats. While some unauthorized access to our information technology systems occurs, we believe to date these threats have not had a material impact on our business. We seek to detect and investigate these security incidents and to prevent their recurrence but in some cases we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. The theft, mis-use or publication of our intellectual property and/or confidential business information or the compromising of our systems or networks could harm our competitive position, cause operational disruption, reduce the value of our investment in research and development of new products and other strategic initiatives or otherwise adversely affect our business or results of operations. To the extent that any security breach results in inappropriate disclosure of our employees', customers' or vendors' confidential information, we may incur liability as a result. Although we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including monitoring of our systems and networks, and maintenance of backup and protective systems, our systems, networks, products and services remain potentially vulnerable to increasingly sophisticated advanced persistent threats that may have a material effect on our business. In addition, the devotion of additional resources to the security of our information technology systems in the future could significantly increase the cost of doing business or otherwise adversely impact our financial results.. Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain key employees and the identification and development of talent to succeed senior management.. We rely heavily on our management team. Accordingly, our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. The inability to recruit and retain key personnel or the unexpected loss of key personnel may adversely affect our operations. In addition, because of our reliance on our management team, our future success depends in part on our ability to identify and develop talent to succeed senior management. The retention of key personnel and appropriate senior management succession planning will continue to be important to the successful implementation of our strategies.. Significant changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions relating to pension costs may have a material effect on the valuation of pension obligations, the funded status of pension plans and our pension cost.. The cost of our pension plans is incurred over long periods of time and involves many uncertainties during those periods of time. Our funding policy for pension plans is to accumulate plan assets that, over the long run, will approximate the present value of projected benefit obligations. Our pension cost is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure pension obligations, the level and value of plan assets available to fund those obligations at the measurement date and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. Significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets will likely result in corresponding increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets and a change in the discount rate or mortality assumptions, which will likely result in an increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations. The combined impact of these changes will affect the reported funded status of our pension plans as well as the net periodic pension cost in the following fiscal years. In recent years, an extended duration strategy in the asset portfolio has been implemented in some plans to reduce the influence of liability volatility due to changes in interest rates. If the funded status of a pension plan declines, we may be required to make unscheduled contributions in addition to those contributions for which we have already planned.. Some of our employees are unionized, represented by workers councils or are subject to local laws that are less favorable to employers than the laws of the US.. As of December 31, 2017, we had 7,592 employees globally. Approximately 16% of our 2,608 US-based employees are unionized. In addition, a large number of our employees are employed in countries in which employment laws provide greater bargaining or other employment rights than the laws of the US. Such employment rights require us to work collaboratively with the legal representatives of the employees to effect any changes to labor agreements. Most of our employees in Europe are represented by workers councils and/or unions that must approve any changes in terms and conditions of employment,. 24. Table of Contents. including potentially salaries and benefits. They may also impede efforts to restructure our workforce. Although we believe we have a good working relationship with our employees and their legal representatives, a strike, work stoppage, or slowdown by our employees could occur, resulting in a disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as any stockholders' rights plan, may discourage a takeover attempt.. Provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws impose various procedural and other requirements, which could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. For example, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued series of preferred stock, without any vote or action by our stockholders. Thus, our Board of Directors can authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of our Series A common stock, par value $0.0001 per share (\"Common Stock\"). These rights may have the effect of delaying or deterring a change of control of our Company. In addition, a change of control of our Company may be delayed or deterred as a result of any stockholders' rights plan that our Board of Directors may adopt. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Common Stock.. We may incur significant charges in the event we close or divest all or part of a manufacturing plant or facility.. We periodically assess our manufacturing operations in order to manufacture and distribute our products in the most efficient manner. Based on our assessments, we may make capital improvements to modernize certain units, move manufacturing or distribution capabilities from one plant or facility to another plant or facility, discontinue manufacturing or distributing certain products or close or divest all or part of a manufacturing plant or facility. We also have shared services agreements at several of our plants and if such agreements are terminated or revised, we would assess and potentially adjust our manufacturing operations. The closure or divestiture of all or part of a manufacturing plant or facility could result in future charges that could be significant. See Note 4 - Acquisitions, Dispositions and Plant Closures in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.. We may not be able to complete future acquisitions or joint venture transactions or successfully integrate them into our business, which could adversely affect our business or results of operations.. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to pursue acquisitions and joint venture opportunities. Successful accomplishment of this objective may be limited by the availability and suitability of acquisition candidates, the ability to obtain regulatory approvals necessary to consummate a planned transaction, and by our financial resources, including available cash and borrowing capacity. Acquisitions and joint venture transactions involve numerous risks, including difficulty determining appropriate valuation, integrating operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired lines or businesses, personnel turnover and the diversion of management's attention from other business matters. In addition, we may be unable to achieve anticipated benefits from these transactions in the time frame that we anticipate, or at all, which could adversely affect our business or results of operations.. In addition, if in connection with the tow joint venture we are unable to receive third-party financing on the terms previously contemplated and committed, we may not achieve all of the benefits planned for the joint venture transaction.. The insurance coverage that we maintain may not fully cover all operational risks.. We maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance but such insurance may not cover all of the risks associated with the hazards of our business and is subject to limitations, including deductibles and maximum liabilities covered. We may incur losses beyond the limits, or outside the coverage, of our insurance policies, including liabilities for environmental remediation. In the future, the types of insurance we obtain and the level of coverage we maintain may be inadequate or we may be unable to continue to maintain our existing insurance or obtain comparable insurance at a reasonable cost.. Differences in views with our joint venture participants may cause our joint ventures not to operate according to their business plans, which may adversely affect our results of operations.. We currently participate in a number of joint ventures and may enter into additional joint ventures in the future. The nature of a joint venture requires us to work cooperatively with unaffiliated third parties. Differences in views among joint venture participants may result in delayed decisions or failure to agree on major decisions. If these differences cause the joint ventures to deviate from their business plans or to fail to achieve their desired operating performance, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. 25. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness. Our level of indebtedness and other liabilities could diminish our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations or refinance our existing indebtedness when it matures, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or the chemicals industry and prevent us from meeting obligations under our indebtedness.. See Note 14 - Debt in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information about our indebtedness. See Note 13 - Noncurrent Other Liabilities, Note 15 - Benefit Obligations and Note 16 - Environmental in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information about our other obligations.. Our level of indebtedness and other liabilities could have important consequences, including:. • Increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions, including exacerbating the impact of any adverse business effects that are determined to be material adverse events under our existing senior credit agreement (the \"Credit Agreement\") or our indentures (the \"Indentures\") governing our \200300 million in aggregate principal amount of 3.250% senior unsecured notes due 2019, $400 million in aggregate principal amount of 5.875% senior unsecured notes due 2021, $500 million in aggregate principal amount of 4.625% senior unsecured notes due 2022, \200750 million in aggregate principal amount of 1.125% senior unsecured notes due 2023 and \200300 million in aggregate principal amount of 1.250% senior unsecured notes due 2025 (collectively, the \"Senior Notes\");. • Requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on indebtedness and amounts payable in connection with the satisfaction of our other liabilities, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities or pay dividends on our Common Stock;. • Exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest;. • Exposing us to the risk of changes in currency exchange rates as certain of our borrowings are denominated in foreign currencies;. • Limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes;. • Limiting our ability to enter into certain commercial arrangements because of concerns of counterparty risks; and. • Limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt.. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future, which could increase the risks described above.. Although covenants under the Credit Agreement and the Indentures limit our ability to incur certain additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness we could incur in compliance with these restrictions could be significant. To the extent that we incur additional indebtedness, the risks associated with our debt described above, including our possible inability to service our debt, including the Senior Notes, would increase.. Our variable rate and euro denominated indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly and affect our operating results.. Certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest or are euro denominated, which exposes us to interest rate risk and currency exchange rate risk, respectively. See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources, Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk below and Note 22 - Derivative Financial Instruments in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on the financial condition and operating performance of our subsidiaries, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain. 26. Table of Contents. financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them, and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due.. Restrictive covenants in our debt agreements may limit our ability to engage in certain transactions and may diminish our ability to make payments on our indebtedness or pay dividends.. The Credit Agreement, the Indentures and the Receivables Purchase Agreement (the \"Purchase Agreement\") governing our receivables securitization facility each contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. The Credit Agreement contains covenants including, but not limited to, restrictions on our ability to incur additional debt; incur liens securing debt; enter into sale-leaseback transactions; merge or consolidate with any other person; and sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of the Issuer's assets or the assets of its subsidiaries.. In addition, the Indentures limit Celanese US Holdings LLC (\"Celanese US\") and certain of its subsidiaries' ability to, among other things, incur liens securing debt; enter into sale-leaseback transactions; merge or consolidate with any other person; and sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of Celanese US's assets or the assets of its restricted subsidiaries.. The Purchase Agreement also contains covenants including, but not limited to, restrictions on CE Receivables LLC, a wholly-owned, \"bankruptcy remote\" special purpose subsidiary of the Company, and certain other Company subsidiaries' ability to incur indebtedness; grant liens on assets; merge, consolidate, or sell certain assets; prepay or modify certain indebtedness; and engage in other businesses.. Such restrictions in our debt obligations could result in us having to obtain the consent of our lenders and holders of the Senior Notes in order to take certain actions. Disruptions in credit markets may prevent us from obtaining or make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain such consents. Our ability to expand our business or to address declines in our business may be limited if we are unable to obtain such consents.. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, a default under the Credit Agreement could permit lenders to accelerate the maturity of our indebtedness under the Credit Agreement and to terminate any commitments to lend. If the lenders under the Credit Agreement accelerate the repayment of such indebtedness, we may not have sufficient liquidity to repay such amounts or our other indebtedness, including the Senior Notes. In such event, we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.. Celanese and Celanese US are holding companies and depend on subsidiaries to satisfy their obligations under the Senior Notes and the guarantee of Celanese US's obligations under the Senior Notes and the Credit Agreement by Celanese.. As holding companies, Celanese and Celanese US conduct substantially all of their operations through their subsidiaries, which own substantially all of our consolidated assets. Consequently, the principal source of cash to pay Celanese and Celanese US's obligations, including obligations under the Senior Notes and the guarantee of Celanese US's obligations under the Credit Agreement and the Indentures by Celanese, is the cash that our subsidiaries generate from their operations. We cannot assure that our subsidiaries will be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to enable Celanese US and/or Celanese to make payments in respect of their obligations. Each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, applicable country or state laws, regulatory limitations and terms of our debt instruments may limit our subsidiaries' ability to distribute cash to Celanese US and Celanese. While the Credit Agreement and the Indentures limit the ability of our subsidiaries to put restrictions on paying dividends or making other intercompany payments to us, these limitations are subject to certain qualifications and exceptions, which may have the effect of significantly restricting the applicability of those limits. In the event Celanese US and/or Celanese do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, Celanese US and/or Celanese may be unable to make required payments on the indebtedness under the Credit Agreement, the Indentures, the guarantee of Celanese US's obligations under the Credit Agreement and the Indentures by Celanese, or our other indebtedness.. 27. Table of Contents"
