[1] "ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. Risk factors which could cause actual results to differ from our expectations and which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations are discussed below and elsewhere in this report. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that are currently not believed to be significant to our business may also affect our actual results and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of the risks or uncertainties described below or any additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. Risks Relating to Our Business. We have a limited operating history upon which you can evaluate us. We may never generate revenue or profit.. We are an early-stage biotechnology company that commenced activities in January 2012. We only have a limited operating history upon which you can evaluate us. Our business plan has not been tested. Since inception, we have had no revenue and have incurred significant operating losses. We have financed our operations primarily through private placements of common equity and convertible notes prior to our initial public offering, as well as proceeds from our initial public offering of common stock. To generate revenue and become and remain profitable, we must continue to develop and commercialize the CELx platform. To do so, we need to successfully complete our clinical trial collaboration with Genentech and the NSABP for our CELx HSF Test, continue to develop other CELx tests for other cancer sub-types and cultivate partnerships with pharmaceutical companies. We must also build operational and financial infrastructure to support commercial operations, train and manage employees, and market and sell our CELx tests (as a CDx and/or as a stand-alone test).. We may never succeed in any or all of these activities and, even if we do, we may never generate revenue that is sufficient to achieve profitability. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses and operating losses for the foreseeable future, and the net losses we incur may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Our failure to become and remain profitable would decrease the value of the company and could impair our ability to raise capital, maintain or expand our research and development efforts, expand our business, or continue our operations.. Our initial success is heavily dependent on the success of our CELx HSF Test.. Our business strategy is focused on attracting pharmaceutical company partnerships that provide revenue from the sale of CELx tests during clinical trials, from milestone payments during clinical trials, from sales of our CELx tests as companion diagnostics or stand-alone tests thereafter, and, potentially, from royalties on the incremental drug revenues our tests enable. Our ability to obtain such partnerships and generate such revenue depends in part on the ability of our CELx HSF Test to demonstrate the potential incremental opportunity available for pharmaceutical companies. We do not expect to receive interim results for our first prospective clinical trial for the CELx HSF Test until late 2018 and final results six to nine months later. Success of the HSF Test trial will depend on many factors, such as successful enrollment of patients, meeting trial endpoint goals, and completing the trial in a timely manner. Our ability to complete the trial could be delayed or prevented for several reasons that are out of our control, such as the FDA withdrawing its authorization and approval to perform the study, the NSABP determining that the human and/or toxicology test results do not support continuing the trial, or participants having adverse reactions or side-effects to the drugs administered in the study. If we are unable to demonstrate that the HSF Test is suitable as a CDx for the targeted therapy, we will likely not be able to generate future revenue from our CELx HSF Test and may not be able to attract other pharmaceutical companies to partner with us for the development and commercialization of other CELx tests. Further, potential pharmaceutical company partners may delay negotiating development agreements until results of the CELx HSF Test trial are available. Even if the ultimate outcome of our CELx HSF Test trial is positive, any delays could materially and adversely affect our business.. 30. We may not be successful in finding pharmaceutical company partners for continuing development of additional CELx tests.. We intend to develop strategic partnerships with pharmaceutical companies for developing additional CELx tests. Many of the potential partners are global, multi-billion-dollar pharmaceutical companies with sophisticated research and development organizations and multiple priorities. We may not be successful in our efforts to establish such a strategic partnership or other alternative arrangements for our CELx tests because, among other things, our research and development pipeline may be insufficient, such tests may be deemed to be at too early of a stage of development for collaborative effort, or third parties may not view such tests as having the requisite potential to demonstrate efficacy. In addition, we may be restricted under collaboration agreements from entering into future agreements with other partners. Even if we are able to find suitable partners, we may not be successful in negotiating development agreements with such partners that provide revenue from the sale of our CELx tests to identify patients eligible for required clinical trials, milestone payments, and/or royalties on the incremental drug revenues that our tests enable. If we are unable to reach agreements with suitable strategic partners on a timely basis, on acceptable terms or at all, we may have to curtail the development of additional CELx tests, our expected revenue opportunities may be significantly smaller than expected and our business may fail.. While our CELx HSF Test is commercially ready, we have not attempted to market it to physicians or their patients as a stand-alone test and have no ability to determine this test or any of our other tests are currently commercially viable.. While our CELx HSF test has been analytically validated, is conducted in our CLIA certified and CAP accredited laboratory, and is currently ready for commercial use as a laboratory developed test, we have not attempted to market it to physicians or their patients. Furthermore, we have commenced only limited communications with KOLs to build awareness and credibility of our CELx diagnostic platform and CELx HSF Test. Accordingly, we have no ability to determine whether our CELx HSF Test, or any other future CELx test, will be commercially viable as a stand-alone test. We may never be successful in generating revenue from our CELx HSF Test or other CELx tests as stand-alone tests, and if we are unable to build pharmaceutical partnerships that enable us to market this and other tests as companion diagnostic tests, we may never generate any revenue and our business may fail.. Developing our CELx tests involves a lengthy and complex process that may not be successful.. Our CELx tests may take several years to develop from the time they are discovered to the time they are available for patient use, if ever. In order to develop additional CELx tests into commercially ready products, we need to successfully complete a variety of activities, including, among other, conducting substantial research and development, conducting extensive analytical testing, and maintaining our CLIA certified and CAP accredited laboratory. In addition, our business strategy is focused heavily on our CELx tests being sold as companion diagnostics. This will require obtaining and maintaining partnerships with pharmaceutical companies and successfully completing clinical studies that demonstrate the suitability of the applicable CELx test as a CDx for their targeted therapies.. These activities will require us to expend significant resources. Based on comparable companies in this industry, few research and development projects result in commercially viable products, and success in early clinical studies often is not replicated in later studies. At any point, we may abandon development of a product candidate for several reasons, such as a clinical validation study failing to demonstrate the prospectively defined endpoints of the study. We may also be required to expend considerable resources repeating clinical studies, which would adversely affect the timing for generating potential revenue from a new product and our ability to invest in other products in our pipeline.. Clinical trials are expensive and complex with uncertain outcomes, which may prevent or delay commercialization of our CELx tests.. For our CELx tests to become a CDx for a matching targeted therapy, we must conduct clinical trials to demonstrate that patients who have an abnormal signaling pathway, as identified by our CELx tests, respond to treatment with a matching targeted therapy. Clinical testing is expensive, difficult to design and implement, and can take many years to complete, and its outcome is inherently uncertain. As a company, we have no experience in conducting or participating in clinical trials. We cannot be certain that any future clinical trials will conclusively demonstrate that any CELx test is effective as a CDx. If our trials do not yield positive results, we may be unable to maintain the pharmaceutical company partnerships we build or find additional partners, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our CELx tests or generate any revenue, our business may fail, and you may lose part or all of your investment.. 31. We cannot be certain that our existing clinical trial or future clinical trials, if any, will begin or be completed on time, if at all. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, clinical trials that could delay or prevent our ability to commercialize our CELx tests, such as:. ·delays in reaching, or failure to reach, agreement on acceptable clinical trial contracts or clinical trial protocols with planned trial sites and/or strategic partners;. ·delay or failure in reaching agreement with the FDA or a comparable foreign regulatory authority on a trial design, in obtaining authorization from such authorities to commence the trial, and/or in complying with conditions or other requirements imposed by such regulatory authorities with respect to the trial;. ·delay or failure in recruiting and enrolling suitable subjects to participate in one or more clinical trials, or with such participants completing a trial or returning for follow-up during or after the trial;. ·clinical sites, investigators or other third-parties deviating from the trial protocol, failing to conduct the trial in accordance with regulatory and contractual requirements, and/or dropping out of a trial;. ·regulatory imposition of a clinical hold for any of our clinical trials, where a clinical hold in a trial in one indication would result in a clinical hold for clinical trials in other indications; and. ·changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions.. Significant nonclinical or clinical trial delays could prevent us from maintaining and/or developing new pharmaceutical company partnerships. Delays could also shorten any periods during which we may have the exclusive right to commercialize our CELx tests or allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do. As such, any delays could impair our ability to successfully commercialize our CELx tests and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Even if our CELx tests achieve positive clinical trial results, they may fail to achieve the degree of market acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payors and others in the medical community necessary for commercial success.. If any of our potential CELx tests, including the CELx HSF Test, achieve positive clinical trial results, they may nonetheless fail to gain sufficient market acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payors and others in the medical community necessary for commercial success. For example, conventional genomic- or proteomic-based analyses are commonly used today to diagnose cancer and prescribe cancer medications, and physicians may continue to rely on these diagnostic tests instead of adopting the use of a CELx test. The degree of market acceptance of our CELx tests, will depend on a number of factors, including:. ·their efficacy and other potential advantages compared to alternative diagnostic tests;. ·our ability to offer them for sale at competitive prices;. ·their convenience and ease of administration compared to alternative diagnostics;. ·the willingness of the target patient population to try new diagnostics and of physicians to initiate such diagnostics;. ·the strength of marketing and distribution support;. ·the availability of third-party coverage and adequate reimbursement for our diagnostic tests; and. ·our ability to partner with pharmaceutical companies to develop CDx programs for the new cancer sub-types we discover.. If our CELx tests do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we may never generate significant product revenues and we may not become profitable.. 32. Our business, operational and financial goals may not be attainable if the market opportunities for our CELx tests or our pharmaceutical company partners are smaller than we expect. Our internal research and estimates on market opportunities have not been verified by independent sources, and we have not independently verified market and industry data from third-parties that we have relied on.. The total market opportunities that we believe exist are based on a variety of assumptions and estimates, including the number of potential CDx programs we will be able to successfully pursue, the amount of potential milestone payments that we could receive in CDx programs, the number of patients we will test in clinical trials, the price we will be able to charge for our tests and the total annual number of cancer patients with undiagnosed abnormal cell signaling. In addition, we have relied on third-party publications, research, surveys and studies for information related to determining market opportunities, including without limitation, information on the number of cancer patients and those receiving various forms of treatment, the cost of drug therapy, the amount of revenue generated from various types of drug therapy, the objective response rates of drug therapies, the number of deaths caused by cancer and the expected growth in cancer drug therapy and diagnostic markets. Our internal research and estimates on market opportunities have not been verified by independent sources, and we have not independently verified market and industry data from third-parties that we have relied on. Any or all of our assumptions and/or estimates may prove to be incorrect for several reasons, such as inaccurate reports or information that we have relied on, potential patients or providers not being amenable to using our CELx platform for diagnostic testing or such patients becoming difficult to identify and access, limited reimbursement for companion diagnostics, pricing pressure due to availability of alternative diagnostic tests, or an inability of the CELx tests’ companion drugs to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for new indications. If any or all of our assumptions and estimates prove inaccurate, we and our CDx pharmaceutical partners may not attain our business, operational and financial goals.. The expected selling price range of our CELx test is an estimate. We have not yet sold any such tests and the actual price we are able to charge may be substantially lower than our expected price range.. We have estimated the selling price range of our CELx test based on the pricing of other diagnostic tests currently available and assumptions regarding the efficacy and market acceptance of our tests. We have not yet sold our CELx tests and cannot be certain of the actual price we may be able to charge. The availability and price of our competitors’ products could limit the demand and the price we are able to charge. We may not achieve our business plan if acceptance is inhibited by price competition, if pharmaceutical companies refuse to pay our expected prices for CELx tests in clinical trials, if physicians are reluctant to switch from other diagnostic tests to our CELx tests or if physicians switch to other new products or choose to reserve our CELx tests for use in limited circumstances. Furthermore, reductions in the reimbursement rate of third-party payors have occurred and may occur in the future. Each of these factors could cause our selling price to be substantially lower than expected, and we may fail to obtain revenue or become profitable.. The insurance coverage and reimbursement status of new diagnostic products is uncertain. Failure to obtain or maintain adequate coverage and reimbursement for CELx tests could limit our ability to market those CELx tests and decrease our ability to generate revenue.. The availability and extent of reimbursement by governmental and private payors is essential for most patients to be able to afford expensive diagnostic tests and treatments. Sales of any of our potential CELx tests will depend substantially, both in the United States and internationally, on the extent to which the costs of our CELx tests will be paid by health maintenance, managed care, and similar healthcare management organizations, or reimbursed by government health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers and other third-party payors. Reimbursement by a payor may depend on a number of factors, including a payor’s determination that the CELx tests are:. ·neither experimental nor investigational;. ·appropriate for the specific patient;. ·cost-effective;. ·supported by peer-reviewed publications; and. ·included in clinical practice guidelines.. If reimbursement is not available, or is available only to a limited amount, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our CELx tests at expected levels, or potentially at all. Even if coverage is provided, the approved reimbursement amount may not be high enough to allow us to establish or maintain pricing sufficient to realize a sufficient return on our research and development investment.. There is significant uncertainty related to the insurance coverage and reimbursement of newly approved diagnostic products. In the United States, the principal decisions about reimbursement for new diagnostic products and services are typically made by CMS. CMS decides whether and to what extent a new product or service will be covered and reimbursed under Medicare. Private payors tend to follow CMS to a substantial degree. As such, a significant portion of our potential revenue depends on CMS approving coverage and reimbursement of our CELx tests.. 33. Outside the United States, international operations are generally subject to extensive governmental price controls and other market regulations, and we believe the increasing emphasis on cost-containment initiatives in Europe, Canada and other countries has and will continue to put pressure on the pricing and usage of diagnostic tests such as our potential CELx tests. In many countries, particularly the countries of the European Union, the prices of medical products are subject to varying price control mechanisms as part of national health systems. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of our CELx tests relative to other available diagnostic tests. The prices of products under such systems may be substantially lower than in the United States. Other countries allow companies to fix their own prices for products, but monitor and control company profits. Additional foreign price controls or other changes in pricing regulation could restrict the amount that we are able to charge for our CELx tests. Accordingly, in markets outside the United States, the reimbursement for our potential CELx tests may be reduced compared with the United States and may be insufficient to generate commercially reasonable revenue and profit.. Moreover, increasing efforts by governmental and third-party payors, in the United States and internationally, to cap or reduce healthcare costs may cause such organizations to limit both coverage and level of reimbursement for new products approved and, as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our potential CELx tests. The downward pressure on healthcare costs in general, particularly prescription drugs and surgical procedures and other treatments, has become very intense. We expect to experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of any CELx tests due to the trend toward managed healthcare, the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations and additional legislative changes.. We may encounter difficulties in commercializing and marketing our products.. In order to commercialize any CELx test, we must build marketing, sales, managerial and other non-technical capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services, and we may not be successful in doing so. For each CELx test we develop, we intend to pursue development agreements with the pharmaceutical companies that provide matching targeted therapies. Once we have completed the analytical validation of a CELx test, we plan to target key opinion leaders (KOLs) to build product awareness. Once we have clinical validation data available, we expect to expand our sales and marketing efforts to target the broader market, and coordinate our go-to-market activities with those of our partner pharmaceutical companies. These activities will be expensive and time consuming and will require significant attention of our executive officers to manage. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that any new drug indications will require our CELx tests as a CDx or that any pharmaceutical company will effectively coordinate sales and marketing activities with us. Any failure or delay in these activities would adversely impact the commercialization our CELx platform, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected.. We may encounter difficulties in managing growth, which could disrupt our operations.. To manage our anticipated future growth, we must continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational and financial systems, expand our facilities and continue to recruit and train additional qualified personnel. Due to our limited financial resources, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. The expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs and may divert our management and business development resources. Any inability to manage growth could delay the execution of our business plans or disrupt our operations.. We face significant competition from other diagnostic companies and our operating results will suffer if we fail to compete effectively.. The diagnostic testing related industry is intensely competitive. We have competitors both in the United States and abroad, including universities and other research institutions and providers of diagnostics that focus on developing genomic or proteomic analyses of a patient’s diseased cells or theranostic tests to predict specific patient responses to a drug therapy. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and other resources, such as larger research and development staff and well-established marketing and sales forces. Our competitors may succeed in developing, acquiring or licensing, on an exclusive basis, products or services that are more effective or less costly than the CELx tests that we are currently developing or that we may develop. In addition, established medical technology, biotechnology and/or pharmaceutical companies may invest heavily to accelerate discovery and development of diagnostic tests that could make our CELx tests less competitive.. 34. Our ability to compete successfully will depend largely on our ability to:. ·discover and develop CELx tests for cancer sub-types that are superior to other products in the market;. ·demonstrate compelling advantages in the efficacy and convenience of our CELx tests on a cost competitive basis;. ·attract qualified scientific, product development and commercial personnel;. ·obtain and maintain patent and other proprietary protection as necessary for our CELx platform;. ·obtain required U.S. and international regulatory approvals;. ·successfully collaborate with research institutions and pharmaceutical companies in the discovery, development and commercialization of our current and future CELx tests; and. ·successfully expand our operations and build a sales force to support commercialization.. We may not be able to compete effectively if we are unable accomplish one or more of these objectives.. If our sole laboratory facility becomes inoperable, we will be unable to perform our tests and our business will be harmed.. We do not have redundant laboratory facilities. We perform all of our diagnostic services in our laboratory located in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Our facility and the equipment we use to perform our tests would be costly to replace and could require substantial lead time to repair or replace. The facility may be harmed or rendered inoperable by physical damage from fire, floods, tornadoes, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events, which may render it difficult or impossible for us to perform our tests for some period of time. The inability to perform our tests may result in the loss of customers or harm our reputation, and we may be unable to regain those customers in the future. Although we possess insurance for damage to our property and the disruption of our business, this insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all.. In order to rely on a third party to perform our tests, we could only use another facility with established state licensure and CLIA accreditation under the scope of which our potential CELx tests could be performed following validation and other required procedures. We cannot assure you that we would be able to find another CLIA-certified facility willing to adopt CELx tests and comply with the required procedures, or that this laboratory would be willing to perform the tests for us on commercially reasonable terms.. We must hire and retain a qualified sales force.. Our ability to grow revenue for our CELx tests is dependent upon our ability to build an effective sales team. We do not currently have a dedicated sales force, and building one will be an expensive and time-consuming process. We face intense competition for qualified sales personnel and our inability to hire or retain an adequate number of sales representatives could limit our ability to maintain or expand our business and increase sales. Even if we are able to increase our sales force, our new sales personnel may not provide sufficient high quality service and attention to effectively market and sell our CELx platform. If we are unable to develop our marketing and sales networks or if our sales personnel do not perform as expected, we may be unable to maintain or grow our existing business and our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected.. We will be dependent on our ability to attract and retain key personnel.. Our operations will be materially dependent upon the services of our officers and key employees, including Brian F. Sullivan, our Chief Executive Officer, and Dr. Lance G. Laing, our Chief Science Officer. Successful implementation of our business plan will also require the services of other consultants and additional personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain such persons as employees, independent contractors, consultants or otherwise. If we are not able to attract individuals with the skills required for our business, or if we lose the services of either Mr. Sullivan or Dr. Laing, we may be unable successfully to implement our business plan.. 35. Our inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms in the future may limit our ability to develop and commercialize our CELx platform.. We may require additional capital to finance capital expenditures and operating expenses over the next several years as we launch our CELx platform and expand our infrastructure, commercial operations and research and development activities. We may seek to raise additional capital through equity offerings, debt financings, collaborations or licensing arrangements. Additional funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we raise funds by issuing equity securities, dilution to our stockholders could result. Any equity securities issued may also provide for rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of holders of our existing securities. The incurrence of additional indebtedness or the issuance of certain equity securities could result in increased fixed payment obligations and could also include restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional debt or issue additional equity, limitations on our ability to acquire or license intellectual property rights, and other operating restrictions that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. In the event that we enter into collaborations or licensing arrangements to raise capital, we may be required to accept unfavorable terms. If we are not able to secure additional funding when needed, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more research and development programs or selling and marketing initiatives. In addition, we may have to work with a partner on one or more of our products or market development programs, which could lower the economic value of those programs to our company.. Risks Related to Our Reliance on Third Parties. We will rely on collaboration with third parties to conduct our clinical trials, including the current trial involving the CELx HSF Test, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily.. We will rely on third parties to conduct clinical trials for our CELx tests. For our CELx HSF Test, we are collaborating with Genentech and the NSABP to conduct a 54-patient single-arm interventional trial that is expected to obtain interim results in late 2018 and final results six to nine months later. We are funding the patient-related costs for this trial and Genentech is supplying the drugs. We will rely on NSABP to conduct our clinical trial of the CELx HSF Test, including setting up clinical sites, enrolling patients, and managing clinical data.. We expect to field additional clinical trials to evaluate new potential indications for drugs with patients identified by one of our new CELx tests. NSABP, other contract research organizations that we hire and/or pharmaceutical companies we partner with might not successfully carry out their contractual duties, meet expected deadlines, or conduct our planned clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols. Any of them may also terminate their relationship with us for a variety of reasons. Furthermore, these third parties may also have relationships with other entities, some of which may be our competitors. If we need to enter into alternative arrangements, we may not be able to complete our clinical trials and may not be able to, or may be delayed in our efforts to, successfully commercialize our potential CELx tests.. The pharmaceutical companies that we partner with may not be successful in receiving regulatory approval for drug indications or may not commercialize their companion therapies for our expected CDx programs.. While we intend to provide our pharmaceutical company partners with new patient populations for such partners’ existing or investigational targeted therapies, there can be no assurances that such partners will be able to obtain regulatory approval for new indications to treat these patient populations or otherwise be successful in commercializing these new therapies. The pharmaceutical companies we partner with:. ·may not meet clinical trial endpoint targets in evaluating efficacy of a targeted therapy in the patient population;. ·may encounter regulatory or production difficulties that could constrain the supply of the companion therapies;. ·may have difficulties gaining acceptance of the use of the companion therapies in the clinical community;. ·may not pursue commercialization of any companion therapies;. ·may elect not to continue or renew commercialization programs based on changes in their strategic focus or available funding, or external factors, such as an acquisition, that divert resources or create competing priorities;. ·may not commit sufficient resources to the marketing and distribution of such companion therapies; or. ·may terminate their relationship with us.. 36. Any of these factors could adversely affect our commercialization strategy, business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our instrument or reagent suppliers may fail to meet our quality requirements for the items we purchase or fail to provide a continuous supply of the items we utilize to perform our CELx tests.. We utilize highly specialized reagents and instruments to perform our CELx tests. We may be unable to find suitable replacement reagents and instruments on a timely basis, if at all. Interruption in the supply of these items or degradation in their quality could delay analytical and clinical studies, and/or render us unable to deliver CELx tests. This would interrupt sales and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Performance issues or price increases by our shipping carriers could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, and harm our reputation and ability to provide our CELx tests on a timely basis.. Expedited, reliable shipping is essential to our operations. Should our shipping carrier encounter delivery performance issues such as loss, damage or destruction of a sample, such occurrences may damage our reputation and lead to decreased demand for our services and increased cost and expense to our business. In addition, any significant increase in shipping rates could adversely affect our operating margins and results of operations. Similarly, strikes, severe weather, natural disasters or other service interruptions by delivery services we use would adversely affect our ability to receive and process patient samples on a timely basis. There are only a few providers of overnight nationwide transport services, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain arrangements with providers on acceptable terms, if at all.. Risks Related to Government Regulation. Our CELx tests represent a novel approach to companion diagnostics, which could result in heightened regulatory scrutiny, delays in clinical development, or delays in our ability to commercialize any products.. Our unique and proprietary CELx technology is the first cancer diagnostic platform we are aware of that can detect the underlying signaling dysfunction driving a patient’s cancer. Because this is a novel approach to companion diagnostics, there can be no assurance as to the length of a clinical trial period, the number of patients the FDA or another applicable regulatory authority will require to be enrolled in the trials in order to establish the safety and efficacy of our CELx tests and the companion drugs, or that the data generated in these trials will be acceptable to the FDA or another applicable regulatory authority to support marketing approval of new indications for the companion drugs. This could delay or prohibit our clinical trials and/or commercialization of our CELx tests.. If the FDA were to begin regulating our tests, we could incur substantial costs and delays associated with trying to obtain premarket clearance or approval.. Most LDTs, are not currently subject to FDA regulation, although reagents, instruments, software or components provided by third parties and used to perform LDTs may be subject to regulation. We believe that the CELx tests are LDT’s, which is a term that describes tests that are designed and performed within a single laboratory. As a result, we believe the CELx tests are not currently subject to regulation by the FDA in accordance with the FDA’s current policy of exercising enforcement discretion regarding LDTs.. Historically, the FDA has not required laboratories that furnish only LDTs to comply with the agency’s requirements for medical devices (e.g., establishment registration, device listing, quality systems regulations, premarket clearance or premarket approval, and post-market controls). In mid-2014, the FDA published a Draft Guidance document describing a proposed approach for a regulatory framework for LDTs, but in late 2016, the FDA indicated it no longer intended to finalize the LDT Guidance Document at that time. It is not clear when or if the FDA will seek to alter the current LDT regulatory framework in the future. We cannot provide any assurance that FDA regulation, including premarket review, will not be required in the future for our tests, whether through additional guidance issued by the FDA, new enforcement policies adopted by the FDA or new legislation enacted by Congress. We cannot predict with certainty the timing or content of future legislation enacted or guidance issued regarding LDTs, or how it will affect our business.. 37. If premarket review is required by the FDA at a future date or if we decide to voluntarily pursue FDA premarket review of our CELx tests, there can be no assurance that our CELx tests or any tests we may develop in the future will be cleared or approved by the FDA on a timely basis, if at all, nor can there be assurance that labeling claims will be consistent with our current claims or adequate to support continued adoption of and reimbursement for our CELx tests. If our CELx tests are allowed to remain on the market but there is uncertainty in the marketplace about our tests, if they are labeled investigational by the FDA, or if labeling claims the FDA allows us to make are more limited than we expect, reimbursement may be adversely affected and we may not be able to sell our CELx tests. Compliance with FDA regulations would increase the cost of conducting our business, and subject us to heightened regulation and scrutiny by the FDA and penalties for failure to comply with these requirements.. If we fail to obtain required federal and state laboratory licenses, we could lose the ability to perform our tests.. Clinical laboratory tests, including our CELx tests, are regulated under CLIA. CLIA is a federal law that regulates clinical laboratories that perform testing on specimens derived from humans for the purpose of providing information for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of disease. CLIA regulations mandate specific standards for laboratories in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration, and participation in proficiency testing, patient test management and quality assurance. CLIA certification is also required in order for us to be eligible to bill state and federal healthcare programs, as well as many private third-party payers, for any tests we launch. We will also be required to maintain state licenses in certain states to conduct testing in our laboratories. While we currently have CLIA Certification for our Minnesota laboratory, failure to maintain this certification would adversely affect our ability to launch our CELx tests.. We generate medical waste and could face substantial liability if we violate laws with respect to the handling of medical waste.. We generate regulated medical waste in the normal course of performing our CELx tests. This subjects us to a variety of federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations. Some of the regulations under the current regulatory structure provide for strict liability, holding a party potentially liable without regard to fault or negligence. We could be held liable for damages and fines as a result of our, or others’, business operations should contamination of the environment or individual exposure to hazardous substances occur related to our business. We cannot predict how changes in laws or development of new regulations will affect our business operations or the cost of compliance.. Failure to comply with the HIPAA security and privacy regulations may increase our operational costs.. A portion of the data that we obtain and handle for or on behalf of our clients is considered protected health information, or PHI, subject to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA. Under HIPAA and our contractual agreements with our HIPAA-covered entity health plan customers, we are considered a “business associate” to those customers, and are required to maintain the privacy and security of PHI in accordance with HIPAA and the terms of our business associate agreements with our clients, including by implementing HIPAA-required administrative, technical and physical safeguards. We are also required to maintain similar business associate agreements with our subcontractors that have access to PHI of our customers in rendering services to us or on our behalf. We will incur significant costs to establish and maintain these safeguards and, if additional safeguards are required to comply with HIPAA regulations or our clients’ requirements, our costs could increase further, which would negatively affect our operating results. Furthermore, we cannot guarantee that such safeguards have been and will continue to be adequate under applicable laws. If we have failed, or fail in the future, to maintain adequate safeguards, or we or our agents or subcontractors use or disclose PHI in a manner prohibited or not permitted by HIPAA, our subcontractor business associate agreements, or our business associate agreements with our customers, or if the privacy or security of PHI that we obtain and handle is otherwise compromised, we could be subject to significant liabilities and consequences.. 38. We will also need to expend a considerable amount of resources complying with other federal, state and foreign laws and regulations. If we are unable to comply or have not complied with such laws, we could face substantial penalties or other adverse actions.. Our operations are subject, directly or indirectly, to other federal, state and foreign laws and regulations that are complex and their application to our specific products, services and relationships may not be clear and may be applied to our business in ways that we do not anticipate. Compliance with laws and regulations will require us to expend considerable resources implementing internal policies and procedures for compliance and ongoing monitoring, and will require significant attention of our management team. This will be challenging as an early-stage company with limited financial resources and human capital. These laws include, for example:. ·Title XI of the Social Security Act, commonly referred to as the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits the knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, in return for or to reward the referral of patients or arranging for the referral of patients, or in return for the recommendation, arrangement, purchase, lease or order of items or services that are covered, in whole or in part, by a federal healthcare program such as Medicare or Medicaid;. ·The civil False Claims Act, that forbids the knowing submission or “causing the submission” of false or fraudulent information or the failure to disclose information in connection with the submission and payment of claims for reimbursement to Medicare, Medicaid, federal healthcare programs or private health plans;. ·The federal Physician Self-referral Law, commonly known as the Stark Law, which prohibits physicians from referring Medicare or Medicaid patients to providers of<U+2009> “designated health services” with whom the physician or a member of the physician’s immediate family has an ownership interest or compensation arrangement, unless a statutory or regulatory exception applies, and similar state equivalents that may apply regardless of payor; and. ·The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, or FCPA, the U.S. domestic bribery statute contained in 18 U.S.C. § 201, the U.S. Travel Act, and the USA PATRIOT Act, which among other things, prohibit companies and their employees, agents, third-party intermediaries, joint venture partners and collaborators from authorizing, promising, offering, or providing, directly or indirectly, improper payments or benefits to recipients in the public or private sector.. Many states and foreign governments have adopted similar laws and regulations. Violations of law could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, monetary fines, disgorgement, individual imprisonment, contractual damages, reputational harm, diminished profits and future earnings and curtailment of our operations. We could also be required to change or terminate some portions of operations or business or could be disqualified from providing services to healthcare providers doing business with government programs.. New legislation and regulations could be passed that affect our operations and result in additional risks and/or costs to our business.. From time to time, legislation is drafted, introduced and passed in Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the testing, approval, manufacturing and marketing of products that are or will be regulated by the FDA or CMS. In addition to new legislation, CMS and FDA regulations and policies are often revised or interpreted by the agencies in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. It is impossible to predict whether further legislative changes will be enacted or FDA or CMS regulations, guidance, policies or interpretations will be changed, or what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. The 2016 presidential election and change in administration make it even more difficult to predict if and how federal regulations may change and/or federal agencies might alter their positions. Changes in laws and the development of new regulations could affect our business operations and/or the cost of compliance.. 39. Risks Related to Intellectual Property. If we are unable to obtain and maintain intellectual property protection for our technology, or if the scope of the intellectual property protection obtained is not sufficiently broad, our competitors could develop and commercialize technology and diagnostic tests similar or identical to ours, and our ability to successfully commercialize our technology and diagnostic tests may be impaired.. Our ability to compete successfully will depend in part on our ability to obtain and enforce patent protection for our products, preserve our trade secrets and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We have applied for patents that protect our technology. Our patent portfolio includes one U.S. patent, five pending U.S. patent applications, one pending international PCT patent application, and numerous corresponding non-U.S. patent applications. Each patent and patent application covers methods of use. However, we cannot assure you that our intellectual property position will not be challenged or that all patents for which we have applied will be granted. The validity and breadth of claims in patents involve complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, may be highly uncertain. Uncertainties and risks that we face include the following:. ·our pending or future patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents;. ·the scope of any existing or future patent protection may not exclude competitors or provide competitive advantages to us;. ·our patents may not be held valid if subsequently challenged;. ·other parties may claim that our products and designs infringe the proprietary rights of others—even if we are successful in defending our patents and proprietary rights, the cost of such litigation may adversely affect our business; and. ·other parties may develop similar products, duplicate our products, or design around our patents.. The patent prosecution process is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to file, prosecute, maintain, enforce or license all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner, or in all jurisdictions. We may choose not to seek patent protection for certain innovations and may choose not to pursue patent protection in certain jurisdictions, and under the laws of certain jurisdictions, patents or other intellectual property rights may be unavailable or limited in scope. It is also possible that we will fail to identify patentable aspects of our discovery and nonclinical development output before it is too late to obtain patent protection.. The patent position of companies like ours is highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions and has in recent years been the subject of much litigation. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or U.S. PTO, has not established a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims that it will allow in medical technology patents. In addition, the laws of foreign jurisdictions may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. For example, India and China do not allow patents for methods of treating the human body. Publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind the actual discoveries, and patent applications in the United States and other jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases not at all. Therefore, we cannot know with certainty whether we were the first to make the inventions claimed in our owned or licensed patents or pending patent applications, or that we were the first to file for patent protection of such inventions. As a result, the issuance, scope, validity, enforceability and commercial value of our patent rights are highly uncertain. Our pending and future patent applications may not result in patents being issued that protect our technology or CELx tests, in whole or in part, or which effectively prevent others from commercializing competitive technologies and diagnostic tests. Changes in either the patent laws or interpretation of the patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our patents or narrow the scope of our patent protection.. Moreover, we may be subject to a third-party pre-issuance submission of prior art to the U.S. PTO or patent offices in foreign jurisdictions, or become involved in opposition, derivation, reexamination, inter parties review, post-grant review or interference proceedings challenging our patent rights or the patent rights of others. An adverse determination in any such submission, proceeding or litigation could reduce the scope of, or invalidate, our patent rights, allow third parties to commercialize our technology and compete directly with us, without payment to us, or result in our inability to commercialize CELx platform without infringing third-party patent rights. In addition, if the breadth or strength of protection provided by our patents and patent applications is threatened, it could dissuade companies from collaborating with us to develop or commercialize current or future CELx tests.. Even if our owned patent applications issue as patents, they may not issue in a form that will provide us with any meaningful protection, prevent competitors from competing with us or otherwise provide us with any competitive advantage. Our competitors may be able to circumvent our owned patents by developing similar or alternative technologies or products in a non-infringing manner.. 40. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its inventorship, scope, validity or enforceability, and our owned patents may be challenged in the courts or patent offices in the United States and abroad. Such challenges may result in loss of exclusivity or freedom to operate or in patent claims being narrowed, invalidated or held unenforceable, in whole or in part, which could limit our ability to stop others from using or commercializing similar or identical technology and product candidates, or limit the duration of the patent protection of our technology and potential diagnostic tests. Given the amount of time required for the development, testing and regulatory review of new diagnostic tests, patents protecting such tests might expire before or shortly after such candidates are commercialized. As a result, our owned patent portfolio may not provide us with sufficient rights to exclude others from commercializing diagnostic tests similar or identical to ours.. Patent reform legislation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents.. On September 16, 2011, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the Leahy-Smith Act, was signed into law. The Leahy-Smith Act includes a number of significant changes to U.S. patent law. These include provisions that affect the way patent applications are prosecuted and may also affect patent litigation. The U.S. PTO recently developed new regulations and procedures to govern administration of the Leahy-Smith Act, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the Leahy-Smith Act, and in particular, the first to file provisions, only became effective on March 16, 2013. Accordingly, it is not clear what, if any, impact the Leahy-Smith Act will have on the operation of our business. However, the Leahy-Smith Act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Depending on future actions by the U.S. Congress, the federal courts, and the U.S. PTO, the laws and regulations governing patents could change in unpredictable ways that would weaken our ability to obtain new patents or to enforce our existing patents and patents that we might obtain in the future. In addition, there may be patent law reforms in foreign jurisdictions that could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents in those foreign jurisdictions.. Third parties may initiate legal proceedings alleging that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, the outcome of which would be uncertain and could have a material adverse effect on the success of our business.. Our commercial success depends upon our ability, and the ability of our collaborators, to develop, manufacture, market and sell our CELx tests and use our proprietary technologies without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. There is considerable intellectual property litigation in the medical technology, biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries. We may become party to, or threatened with, future adversarial proceedings or litigation regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our CELx platform, including interference or derivation proceedings before the U.S. PTO and similar bodies in other jurisdictions. Third parties may assert infringement claims against us based on existing patents or patents that may be granted in the future.. If we are found to infringe a third party’s intellectual property rights, we could be required to obtain a license from such third party to continue developing and marketing our CELx platform and CELx tests. However, we may not be able to obtain any required license on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Even if we were able to obtain a license, it could be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors access to the same technologies licensed to us. We could be forced, including by court order, to cease commercializing the infringing technology or product. In addition, we could be found liable for monetary damages, including treble damages and attorneys’ fees if we are found to have willfully infringed a patent. A finding of infringement could prevent us from commercializing our CELx platform or force us to cease some of our business operations, which could materially harm our business. Claims that we have misappropriated the confidential information or trade secrets of third parties could have a similar negative impact on our business.. We may be subject to claims by third parties asserting that our employees or we have misappropriated their intellectual property, or claiming ownership of what we regard as our own intellectual property.. Our current and future employees may have been previously employed at universities or other biotechnology, diagnostic technology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors and strategic partners. Although we try to ensure that our employees do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have used or disclosed intellectual property, including trade secrets or other proprietary information, of any such employee’s former employer. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims.. 41. In addition, while it is our policy to require our employees and contractors who may be involved in the development of intellectual property to execute agreements assigning such intellectual property to us, we may be unsuccessful in executing such an agreement with each party who in fact develops intellectual property that we regard as our own. Our and their assignment agreements may not be self-executing or may be breached, and we may be forced to bring claims against third parties, or defend claims they may bring against us, to determine the ownership of what we regard as our intellectual property.. If we fail in prosecuting or defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. Even if we are successful in prosecuting or defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management.. Any lawsuits relating to infringement of intellectual property rights necessary to defend ourselves or enforce our rights will be costly and time consuming, and could be unsuccessful.. Because competition in our industry is intense, competitors may infringe or otherwise violate our issued patents, patents of our licensors or other intellectual property. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time consuming, and could distract our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. Any claims we assert against perceived infringers could provoke these parties to assert counterclaims against us alleging that we infringe their patents. In addition, in a patent infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours is invalid or unenforceable, in whole or in part, construe the patent’s claims narrowly or refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the technology in question. An adverse result in any litigation proceeding could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly. We may also elect to enter into license agreements in order to settle patent infringement claims or to resolve disputes prior to litigation, and any such license agreements may require us to pay royalties and other fees that could be significant. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure.. If we are not able to prevent disclosure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information, the value of our CELx platform could be significantly diminished.. We rely on trade secret protection to protect our interests in proprietary know-how and in processes for which patents are difficult to obtain or enforce. We may not be able to protect our trade secrets adequately. We have a policy of requiring our consultants, advisors and strategic partners to enter into confidentiality agreements and our employees to enter into invention, non-disclosure and non-compete agreements. However, no assurance can be given that we have entered into appropriate agreements with all parties that have had access to our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. There is also no assurance that such agreements will provide meaningful protection of our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure of information. Furthermore, we cannot provide assurance that any of our employees, consultants, contract personnel, or strategic partners, either accidentally or through willful misconduct, will not cause serious damage to our programs and/or our strategy, for example by disclosing important trade secrets, know-how or proprietary information to our competitors. It is also possible that our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information could be obtained by third parties as a result of breaches of our physical or electronic security systems. Any disclosure of confidential data into the public domain or to third parties could allow our competitors to learn our trade secrets and use the information in competition against us. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information. Any action to enforce our rights is likely to be time consuming and expensive, and may ultimately be unsuccessful, or may result in a remedy that is not commercially valuable. These risks are accentuated in foreign countries where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Any unauthorized disclosure of our trade secrets or proprietary information could harm our competitive position.. 42. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock. Our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders, if they choose to act together, have the ability to control all matters submitted to stockholders for approval.. Our executive officers and directors, combined with our stockholders who each own more than 5% of our outstanding common stock, in the aggregate, own approximately 50% of our outstanding capital stock. As a result, if these stockholders were to choose to act together, they would be able to control all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, as well as our management and affairs. For example, these persons, if they choose to act together, would control the election of directors and approval of any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentration of ownership control may:. ·delay, defer or prevent a change in control;. ·make changes to our management and the board of directors challenging for other stockholders; or. ·impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us that other stockholders may desire or may result in you obtaining a premium for your shares.. Our internal control over financial reporting does not currently meet the standards required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price.. We previously have not been required to maintain internal control over financial reporting in a manner that meets the standards of publicly traded companies required by Sections 404(a) or 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP. We are not currently in compliance with, and we cannot be certain when we will be able to implement the requirements of Section 404(a). We may encounter problems or delays in implementing any changes necessary to make a favorable assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. If we cannot favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in our financial information and the price of our common stock could decline.. Additionally, the existence of any material weakness or significant deficiency would require management to devote significant time and incur significant expense to remediate any such material weaknesses or significant deficiencies and management may not be able to remediate any such material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in a timely manner. The existence of any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could also result in errors in our financial statements that could require us to restate our financial statements causing us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause stockholders to lose confidence in our reported financial information, all of which could materially and adversely affect us.. Provisions in our corporate charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of our company, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of our company that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. In addition, because our board of directors will be responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors. Among other things, these provisions:. ·allow the authorized number of our directors to be changed only by resolution of our board of directors;. ·limit the manner in which stockholders can remove directors from our board of directors;. ·establish advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings and nominations to our board of directors;. ·require that stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called stockholder meeting and prohibit actions by our stockholders by written consent;. ·limit who may call stockholder meetings;. ·authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a “poison pill” that would work to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our board of directors; and. 43. ·require the approval of the holders of at least two-thirds of the votes that all our stockholders would be entitled to cast to amend or repeal specified provisions of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws.. Moreover, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner.. Any of these provisions of our charter documents or Delaware law could, under certain circumstances, depress the market price of our common stock.. The price of our common stock may be volatile and fluctuate substantially, which could result in substantial losses for purchasers of our common stock.. Our stock price may be extremely volatile. The stock market in general and the market for smaller medical technology companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. As a result of this volatility, you may not be able to sell your common stock at or above the initial public offering price. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including:. ·the success of competitive products or technologies;. ·results of planned clinical trials of our CELx HSF Test or other CELx tests may develop in the future;. ·regulatory or legal developments in the United States and other countries;. ·developments or disputes concerning patent applications, issued patents or other proprietary rights;. ·the recruitment or departure of key personnel;. ·the level of expenses related to any of our CELx tests or clinical development programs;. ·actual or anticipated changes in estimates as to financial results, development timelines or recommendations by securities analysts;. ·operating results that fail to meet expectations of securities analysts that cover our company;. ·variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us;. ·changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems;. ·market conditions in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical technology sectors;. ·sales of our stock by us, our insiders and our other stockholders;. ·general economic and market conditions; and. ·the other factors described in this “Risk Factors” section.. We may be subject to securities litigation, which is expensive and could divert management attention.. Smaller medical technology companies like us often experience volatile stock prices, and companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to an increased incidence of securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or publish negative reports about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. There can be no assurance that analysts will cover us or provide favorable coverage. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or change their opinion of our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. 44. We are an “emerging growth company,” and the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies may make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act, and may remain an emerging growth company for up to five years. For so long as we remain an emerging growth company, we are permitted and intend to rely on exemptions from certain disclosure requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. These exemptions include:. ·being permitted to provide only two years of audited financial statements, in addition to any required unaudited interim financial statements, with correspondingly reduced “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” disclosure;. ·not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements in the assessment of our internal control over financial reporting of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act;. ·not being required to comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor’s report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements;. ·reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation; and. ·exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved.. We have taken advantage of reduced reporting burdens in this report. We cannot predict whether investors will find our common stock less attractive if we rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. We incur increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives and corporate governance practices.. As a public company, and particularly after we are no longer an emerging growth company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the listing requirements of The Nasdaq Capital Market and other applicable securities rules and regulations impose various requirements on public companies, including establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our ongoing legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly.. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404, we will first be required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting for the year ending December 31, 2018. As discussed above, if we cease to be an emerging growth company, we will be required to include an attestation report on internal control over financial reporting issued by our independent registered public accounting firm as required by Section 404(b). To achieve compliance with Section 404 within the prescribed period, we will be engaged in a process to document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting, which is both costly and challenging. In this regard, we will need to continue to dedicate internal resources, potentially engage outside consultants and adopt a detailed work plan to assess and document the adequacy of internal control over financial reporting, continue steps to improve control processes as appropriate, validate through testing that controls are functioning as documented and implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal control over financial reporting. Despite our efforts, there is a risk that we will not be able to conclude, within the prescribed timeframe or at all, that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as required by Section 404. If we identify one or more material weaknesses, it could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements.. Since we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our capital stock in the foreseeable future, stock price appreciation, if any, will be your sole source of gain.. We currently intend to retain all of our future earnings, if any, to finance the growth and development of our business. In addition, the terms of any future debt agreements may preclude us from paying dividends. As a result, appreciation, if any, in the market price of our common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future.. 45"
