[1] "ITEM 1A - RISK FACTORS. An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent to our business.  The material risks and uncertainties that management believes may affect our business are described below.  Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report.  The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our business.  Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair our business operations.  This Annual Report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors.. 12. Table of Contents. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.  If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Worsening economic conditions could adversely affect our business.. The Bank conducts banking operations principally in California's Central Valley.  As a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to changes in the economic conditions in California's Central Valley.  Our business results are dependent in large part upon the business activity, population, income levels, deposits and real estate activity in the Central Valley, and adverse economic conditions could have a material adverse effect upon us.  In addition, the Central Valley remains largely dependent on agriculture.  A downturn in agriculture and agricultural related business could indirectly and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We can provide no assurance that economic conditions in the United States in general and in the State of California and within our operating markets will not further deteriorate or that such deterioration will not materially and adversely affect us.  A further deterioration in economic conditions locally, regionally or nationally could result in a further economic downturn in the Central Valley with the following consequences, any of which could further adversely affect our business:. • loan delinquencies and defaults may increase;. • problem assets and foreclosures may increase;. • demand for our products and services may decline;. • low cost or noninterest bearing deposits may decrease;. • collateral for loans may decline in value, in turn reducing customers' borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral as sources of repayment of existing loans;. • foreclosed assets may not be able to be sold;. • volatile securities market conditions could adversely affect valuations of investment portfolio assets; and. • reputational risk may increase due to public sentiment regarding the banking industry.. Governmental monetary policies and intervention to stabilize the U.S. financial system may affect our business and are beyond our control.. The business of banking is affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the Federal government and its agencies.  Such policies are beyond our control.  We are particularly affected by the policies established by the Federal Reserve Board in relation to the supply of money and credit in the United States.  The instruments of monetary policy available to the Federal Reserve Board can be used in varying degrees and combinations to directly affect the availability of bank loans and deposits, as well as the interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits, and this can and does have a material effect on our business.. Tightening of credit markets and liquidity risk could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A tightening of the credit markets or any inability to obtain adequate funds for continued loan growth at an acceptable cost could adversely affect our asset growth and liquidity position and, therefore, our earnings capability.  In addition to core deposit growth, maturity of investment securities and loan and lease payments, we also rely on alternative funding sources including unsecured borrowing lines with correspondent banks, secured borrowing lines with the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco and the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, and public time certificates of deposits.  Our ability to access these sources could be impaired by deterioration in our financial condition as well as factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations for the financial services industry or serious dislocation in the general credit markets.  In the event such a disruption should occur, our ability to access these sources could be adversely affected, both as to price and availability, which would limit or potentially raise the cost of the funds available to us.. 13. Table of Contents. Because a significant portion of our loan portfolio is comprised of real estate loans, negative changes in the economy affecting real estate values and liquidity could impair the value of collateral securing our real estate loans and result in loan and other losses.. At December 31, 2017, $754 million, or 83.70% of our total loan and lease portfolio, consisted of real estate related loans. The real estate securing our loan portfolio is concentrated in California.  The market value of real estate can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time as a result of market conditions in the geographic area in which the real estate is located.  As a result, adverse developments affecting real estate values in our market areas could increase the credit risk associated with our real estate loan portfolio.  The market value of real estate can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time as a result of market conditions in the geographic area in which the real estate is located.  Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by changes in national, regional or local economic conditions, the rate of unemployment, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies and acts of nature, such as earthquakes and natural disasters.  Adverse changes affecting real estate values and the liquidity of real estate in one or more of our markets could increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio, significantly impair the value of property pledged as collateral on loans and affect our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure without a loss or additional losses, which could result in losses that would adversely affect profitability.  Such declines and losses would have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and growth prospects. In addition, if hazardous or toxic substances are found on properties pledged as collateral, the value of the real estate could be impaired. If we foreclose on and take title to such properties, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage.  Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses to address unknown liabilities and may materially reduce the affected property's value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property.. Supervisory guidance on commercial real estate concentrations could restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limits on the conduct of our business.. As a part of their regulatory oversight, the federal regulators have issued the CRE Concentration Guidance on sound risk management practices with respect to a financial institution's concentrations in commercial real estate lending activities.  These guidelines were issued in response to the agencies' concerns that rising commercial real estate, or CRE, concentrations might expose institutions to unanticipated earnings and capital volatility in the event of adverse changes in the commercial real estate market.  Existing guidance reinforces and enhances existing regulations and guidelines for safe and sound real estate lending by providing supervisory criteria, including numerical indicators to assist in identifying institutions with potentially significant commercial real estate loan concentrations that may warrant greater supervisory scrutiny.  The guidance does not limit banks' commercial real estate lending, but rather guides institutions in developing risk management practices and levels of capital that are commensurate with the level and nature of their commercial real estate concentrations.  The CRE Concentration Guidance identifies certain concentration levels that, if exceeded, will expose the institution to additional supervisory analysis with regard to the institution's CRE concentration risk.  The CRE Concentration Guidance is designed to promote appropriate levels of capital and sound loan and risk management practices for institutions with a concentration of CRE loans. In general, the CRE Concentration Guidance establishes the following supervisory criteria as preliminary indications of possible CRE concentration risk: (i) the institution's total construction, land development and other land loans represent 100% or more of total risk-based capital; or (ii) total CRE loans as defined in the regulatory guidelines represent 300% or more of total risk-based capital, and the institution's CRE loan portfolio has increased by 50% or more during the prior 36-month period. Pursuant to the CRE Concentration Guidelines, loans secured by owner occupied commercial real estate are not included for purposes of CRE Concentration calculation.  We believe that our underwriting policies, management information systems, independent credit administration process, and monitoring of real estate loan concentrations are currently sufficient to address the CRE Concentration Guidance.. If our allowance for credit losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease.. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of these loans, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to assure repayment.  We may experience significant credit losses that could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.  We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. We maintain an allowance for loan losses for probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio. The allowance is established through a provision for loan losses based on management's evaluation of the risks inherent in the loan portfolio and the general economy. The allowance is also appropriately increased for new loan growth. The allowance is based upon a number of factors, including the size of the loan portfolio, asset classifications, economic trends, industry experience and trends, industry and geographic concentrations, estimated collateral values, management's assessment of the credit risk inherent in the portfolio, historical loan loss experience and loan underwriting policies. The allowance is only an estimate of the probable incurred losses in the loan portfolio and may not represent actual losses realized over time, either of losses in excess of the allowance or of losses less than the allowance. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our current allowance my not be sufficient to cover future loan losses and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio.. 14. Table of Contents. Our bank regulatory agencies will periodically review our allowance for loan losses and the value attributed to nonaccrual loans or to real estate acquired through foreclosure and may require us to adjust our determination of the value for these items. These adjustments may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Non-performing assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. At December 31, 2017, our non-performing loans and leases were 0.32% of total loans and leases compared to 0.29% at December 31, 2016, and 0.40% at December 31, 2015, and our non-performing assets (which include foreclosed real estate) were 0.18% of total assets compared to 0.18% at December 31, 2016.  The allowance for credit losses as a percentage of non-performing loans and leases was 305.32% as of December 31, 2017 compared to 427.80% at December 31, 2016.  Non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways.  We generally do not record interest income on non-performing loans or other real estate owned, thereby adversely affecting our income and increasing our loan administration costs.  When we take collateral in foreclosures and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the related asset to the then fair value of the collateral, which may ultimately result in a loss.  An increase in the level of non-performing assets increases our risk profile and may impact the capital levels our regulators believe are appropriate in light of the ensuing risk profile, which could result in a request to reduce our level of non-performing assets.  When we reduce problem assets through loan sales, workouts, restructurings and otherwise, decreases in the value of the underlying collateral, or in these borrowers' performance or financial condition, whether or not due to economic and market conditions beyond our control, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.  In addition, the resolution of non-performing assets requires significant commitments of time from management and our directors, which can be detrimental to the performance of their other responsibilities.  There can be no assurance that we will not experience future increases in non-performing assets or that the disposition of such non-performing assets will not adversely affect our profitability.. Our focus on lending to small to mid-sized community-based businesses may increase our credit risk.. Commercial real estate and commercial business loans generally are considered riskier than single-family residential loans because they have larger balances to a single borrower or group of related borrowers.  Commercial real estate and commercial business loans involve risks because the borrowers' ability to repay the loans typically depends primarily on the successful operation of the businesses or the properties securing the loans.  Most of the Bank's commercial real estate and commercial business loans are made to small to medium sized businesses who may have a heightened vulnerability to economic conditions.  Moreover, a portion of these loans have been made by us in recent years and the borrowers may not have experienced a complete business or economic cycle.  Furthermore, the deterioration of our borrowers' businesses may hinder their ability to repay their loans with us, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability.. We realize income primarily from the difference between interest earned on loans and securities and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings.  We expect that we will periodically experience \"gaps\" in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities, meaning that either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa.  In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, this \"gap\" will work against us, and our earnings may be negatively affected.. We are unable to predict fluctuations of market interest rates, which are affected by the following factors outside our control:. • inflation;. • recession;. • competition;. • a rise in unemployment;. • tightening money supply;. • international disorder; and. • instability in domestic and foreign financial markets.. Our asset/liability management strategy, which is designed to address the risk from changes in market interest rates and the shape of the yield curve, may not prevent changes in interest rates from having a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  In recent years, we have shifted our mix of assets from consisting primarily of loans to a more balanced mix of loans and securities.  The value of these securities is subject to interest rate risk, which we must monitor and manage successfully in order to prevent declines in value of these assets if interest rates rise in the future.. Additionally, increasing levels of competition in the banking and financial services business may decrease our net interest spread as well as net interest margin by forcing us to offer lower lending interest rates and pay higher deposit interest rates.  Although we believe our current level of interest rate sensitivity is reasonable, significant fluctuations in interest rates (such as a sudden and substantial increase in Prime and Overnight Fed Funds rates) as well as increasing competition may require us to increase rates on deposits at a faster pace than the yield we receive on interest earning assets increases.  The impact of any sudden and substantial move in interest rates and/or increased competition may have an adverse effect on our. 15. Table of Contents. business, results of operations and financial condition as our net interest income (including the net interest spread and margin) may be negatively impacted.. Furthermore, a sustained decrease in market interest rates could adversely affect our earnings.  When interest rates decline borrowers tend to refinance higher-rate, fixed-rate loans to lower rates, prepaying their existing loans.  Under those circumstances we would not be able to reinvest those prepayments in assets earning interest rates as high as the rates on the prepaid loans. In addition, our commercial real estate and commercial loans, which carry interest rates that, in general, adjust in accordance with changes in the prime rate, will adjust to lower rates.  We are also significantly affected by the level of loan demand available in our market.  The inability to make sufficient loans directly affects the interest income we earn. Lower loan demand will generally result in lower interest income realized as we place funds in lower yielding investments.. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and recent rulemaking, we are subject to more stringent capital requirements.. In July 2013, the U.S. federal banking authorities approved the implementation of the Basel III regulatory capital reforms, or Basel III, and issued rules effecting certain changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. Basel III is applicable to all U.S. banks that are subject to minimum capital requirements as well as to bank and saving and loan holding companies, other than \"small bank holding companies\" (generally bank holding companies with consolidated assets of less than $1.0 billion).  Basel III not only increases most of the required minimum regulatory capital ratios, it introduces a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio and the concept of a capital conservation buffer.  Basel III also expands the current definition of capital by establishing additional criteria that capital instruments must meet to be considered additional Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital. In order to be a \"well-capitalized\" depository institution under the new regime, an institution must maintain a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.5% or more; a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8% or more; a total capital ratio of 10% or more; and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 5% or more.  The Basel III capital rules became effective as applied to the Company and the Bank on January 1, 2015 with a phase-in period that generally extends through January 1, 2019 for many of the changes.. The failure to meet applicable regulatory capital requirements could result in one or more of our regulators placing limitations or conditions on our activities, including our growth initiatives, or restricting the commencement of new activities, and could affect customer and investor confidence, our costs of funds and FDIC insurance costs, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock, our ability to make acquisitions, and our business, results of operations and financial conditions, generally.. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability.. We face vigorous competition from banks and other financial institutions, including savings institutions, finance companies and credit unions.  A number of these banks and other financial institutions have substantially greater resources and lending limits, larger branch systems and a wider array of banking services.  To a limited extent, we also compete with other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies and insurance companies.  This competition may reduce or limit our margins on banking services, reduce our market share and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  Additionally, we face competition primarily from other banks in attracting, developing and retaining qualified banking professionals.. Recently, several new banks have opened in our service areas.  We are seeing price competition from these new banks, as they work to establish their markets.  The existence of competitors, large and small, is a normal and expected part of our operations, but in responding to the particular short-term impact on business of new entrants to the marketplace, we could see a negative impact on revenue and income.  Moreover, these near term impacts could be accentuated by the seasonal impact on revenue and income generated by the borrowing and deposit habits of the agricultural community that comprises a significant component of our customer base.. Technology is continually changing and we must effectively implement new technologies.. Our future growth prospects will be highly dependent on our ability to implement changes in technology that affect the delivery of banking services such as the increased demand for computer access to bank accounts and the availability to perform banking transactions electronically.  Our ability to compete will depend upon our ability to continue to adapt technology on a timely and cost-effective basis to meet such demands.  In addition, our business and operations could be susceptible to adverse effects from computer failures, communication and energy disruption, and activities such as fraud of unethical individuals with the technological ability to cause disruptions or failures of our data processing system.. If our information systems were to experience a system failure, our business and reputation could suffer.. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business.  The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems.  Our operations are dependent upon our ability to minimize service disruptions by protecting our computer equipment, systems, and network infrastructure from physical damage due to fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event.  We have protective measures in place to prevent or limit the effect of the failure or interruption of our information systems, and will continue to upgrade our security technology and update procedures to help prevent such events.  However, if such failures or interruptions were to occur, they could result in damage to our reputation, a loss of customers, increased regulatory scrutiny, or possible exposure to financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 16. Table of Contents. The occurrence of fraudulent activity, breaches or failures of our information security controls or cybersecurity-related incidents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As a financial institution we are susceptible to fraudulent activity, information security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents that may be committed against us or our customers which may result in financial losses or increased costs to us or our customers, disclosure or misuse of our information or our customer information, misappropriation of assets, privacy breaches against our customers, litigation, or damage to our reputation.  Such fraudulent activity may take many forms, including check fraud, electronic fraud, wire fraud, on-line banking, phishing, social engineering and other dishonest acts. Information security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents may include fraudulent or unauthorized access to systems used by us or our customers, denial or degradation of service attacks, and malware or other cyber-attacks. In recent periods, there continues to be a rise in electronic fraudulent activity, security breaches and cyber-attacks within the financial services industry, especially in the commercial banking sector due to cyber criminals targeting commercial bank accounts.  Consistent with industry trends we have also experienced an increase in attempted electronic fraudulent activity, security breaches and cybersecurity-related incidents in recent periods.  Moreover, in recent periods, several large corporations, including financial institutions and retail companies, have suffered major data breaches, in some cases exposing not only confidential and proprietary corporate information, but also sensitive financial and other personal information of their customers and employees and subjecting them to potential fraudulent activity. Some of our customers may have been affected by these breaches which increase their risks of identity theft, credit card fraud and other fraudulent activity that could involve their accounts with us.. Information pertaining to us and our customers is maintained and transactions are executed on the networks and systems of ours, our customers and certain of our third party partners, such as our online banking or core systems.  The secure maintenance and transmission of confidential information as well as execution of transactions over these systems are essential to protect us and our customers against fraud and security breaches and to maintain our customers' confidence.  Breaches of information security also may occur, and in infrequent, incidental, cases have occurred, through intentional or unintentional acts by those having access to our systems or our customers' or counterparties' confidential information, including employees.  In addition, increases in criminal activity levels and sophistication, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries, vulnerabilities in third-party technologies (including browsers and operating systems) or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology, processes and controls that we use to prevent fraudulent transactions and to protect data about us, our customers and underlying transactions as well as the technology used by our customers to access our systems.  Although we have developed and continue to invest in systems and processes that are designed to detect and prevent security breaches and cyber-attacks and periodically test our security, our inability to anticipate, or failure to adequately mitigate, breaches of security could result in: losses to us or our customers; our loss of business and/or customers; damage to our reputation; the incurrence of additional expenses; disruption to our business; our inability to grow our online services or other businesses; additional regulatory scrutiny or penalties; or our exposure to civil litigation and possible financial liability - any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. More generally, publicized information concerning security and cyber-related problems could inhibit the use or growth of electronic or web-based applications or solutions as a means of conducting commercial transactions.  Such publicity may also cause damage to our reputation as a financial institution. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our controls over financial reporting and related governance procedures may fail or be circumvented.. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal control over financial reporting, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures.  We maintain controls and procedures to mitigate risks such as processing system failures or errors and customer or employee fraud, and we maintain insurance coverage for certain of these risks.  Any system of controls and procedures, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and provides only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met.  Events could occur which are not prevented or detected by our internal controls, are not insured against, or are in excess of our insurance limits.  Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures, or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures, could have an adverse effect on our business.. The current expected credit loss standard established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board will require significant data requirements and changes to methodologies.. In the aftermath of the 2007-2008 financial crises, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, decided to review how banks estimate losses in the allowance for loan loss calculation, and it issued the final Current Expected Credit Loss, or CECL, standard on June 16, 2016.  Currently, the impairment model used by financial institutions is based on incurred losses, and loans are recognized as impaired when there is no longer an assumption that future cash flows will be collected in full under the originally contracted terms.  This model will be replaced by the CECL model that will become effective for the fiscal year beginning after December 15, 2019 in which financial institutions will be required to use historical information, current conditions and reasonable forecasts to estimate the expected loss over the life of the loan.  The transition to the CECL model will necessitate significantly greater data requirements and changes to methodologies to accurately account for expected. 17. Table of Contents. losses over the life of a loan.  There can be no assurance that we will not be required to increase out reserves and allowance for loan loss as a result of the implementation of CECL.. We have a significant deferred tax asset and cannot assure that it will be fully realized.. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are the expected future tax amounts for the temporary differences between the carrying amounts and tax basis of assets and liabilities computed using enacted tax rates.  We regularly assess available positive and negative evidence to determine whether it is more likely than not that our net deferred tax asset will be realized.  Realization of a deferred tax asset requires us to apply significant judgment and is inherently speculative because it requires estimates that cannot be made with certainty.  At December 31, 2017, we had a net deferred tax asset of $8.024 million.  If we were to determine at some point in the future that we will not achieve sufficient future taxable income to realize our net deferred tax asset, we would be required, under generally accepted accounting principles, to establish a full or partial valuation allowance which would require us to incur a charge to operations for the period in which the determination was made.. We may not be successful in raising additional capital needed in the future.. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business strategies.  Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time which are outside of our control, and our financial performance.  We cannot be assured that such capital will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all.  Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital.  Moreover, if we need to raise capital in the future, we may have to do so when many other financial institutions are also seeking to raise capital and would have to compete with those institutions for investors.  An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The effects of changes to FDIC insurance coverage limits are uncertain and increased premiums may adversely affect us.. The Bank's deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) up to applicable legal limits.  All of a depositors' accounts at an insured depository institution, including all non-interest bearing transactions accounts, will be insured by the FDIC up to the standard maximum deposit insurance amount of ($250,000) for each deposit insurance ownership category.. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums will add to our cost of operations and could have a significant impact on the Bank.  Depending on any future losses that the FDIC insurance fund may suffer due to failed institutions, there can be no assurance that there will not be additional significant premium increases in order to replenish the fund.. On February 7, 2011, the FDIC Board of Directors adopted the final rule, which redefined the deposit insurance assessment base as required by Dodd-Frank, and makes changes to assessment rates, implements Dodd-Frank's Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) dividend provisions, and revises the risk based assessment system for all large institutions.  The final rule redefined the deposit insurance assessment base as average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity, defined as Tier 1 capital.  The rule lowered overall assessment rates in order to generate the same approximate amount of revenue under the new larger base as was raised under the old base.  In 2016, the FDIC board of directors approved a final rule revising DIF assessment formulas for community banks with less than $10 billion in assets that have been FDIC-insured for at least five years.  The revised method better reflects risks and helps ensure that banks that take on greater risks pay more for deposit insurance than their less risk counterparts.  The method change is revenue-neutral meaning aggregate assessment revenue collected from established small banks is expected to be approximately the same as it would have been using the prior method.  Assessments were expected to drop by an average of approximately one-third.  The range of initial assessment rates for all institutions declines to between 3 cents and 30 cents per $100 of the assessment base from between 5 cents and 35 cents.. We have and in the future we may be required to recognize impairment with respect to investment securities, including the FHLB stock we hold.. Our securities portfolio contains whole loan private mortgage-backed securities and currently includes securities with unrecognized losses and securities that have been downgraded to below investment grade by national rating agencies.  We may continue to observe declines in the fair market value of these securities.  We evaluate the securities portfolio for any other-than-temporary impairment each reporting period, as required by generally accepted accounting principles.  Numerous factors, including the lack of liquidity for re-sales of certain securities, the absence of reliable pricing information for securities, adverse changes in the business climate, adverse regulatory actions or unanticipated changes in the competitive environment, could have a negative effect on our securities portfolio and results of operations in future periods.  There can be no assurance, however, that future evaluations of the securities portfolio will not require us to recognize further impairment charges with respect to these and other holdings.. In addition, as a condition to membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco (the FHLB), we are required to purchase and hold a certain amount of FHLB stock.  Our stock purchase requirement is based, in part, upon the outstanding principal balance of advances from the FHLB.  At December 31, 2017, we held stock in the FHLB totaling. 18. Table of Contents. $6,843,000 as compared to our minimum required stock holding of $6,335,000.  The FHLB stock held by us is carried at cost and is subject to recoverability testing under applicable accounting standards.  To date, the FHLB has not discontinued the distribution of dividends on its shares.  However, there can be no assurance the FHLB's dividend paying practices will continue.  As of December 31, 2017, we did not recognize an impairment charge related to our FHLB stock holdings.  There can be no assurance, however, that future negative changes to the financial condition of the FHLB may not require us to recognize an impairment charge with respect to such holdings.. If the goodwill we have recorded in connection with our acquisitions becomes impaired, it could have an adverse impact on our earnings and capital.. At December 31, 2017, we had approximately $53,777,000 of goodwill on our balance sheet attributable to our acquisitions of the Bank of Madera County in January 2005, Service 1st Bancorp in November 2008, Visalia Community Bank in July 2013, Sierra Vista Bank in October 2016, and Folsom Lake Bank in October 2017.  In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, our goodwill is not amortized but rather evaluated for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that a potential impairment exists.  Such evaluation is based on a variety of factors, including the quoted price of our common stock, market prices of the common stock of other banking organizations, common stock trading multiples, discounted cash flows, and data from comparable acquisitions.  There can be no assurance that future evaluations of goodwill will not result in findings of impairment and write-downs, which could be material.. We may raise additional capital, which could have a dilutive effect on the existing holders of our common stock and adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. We are not restricted from issuing additional shares of common stock or securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock.  We frequently evaluate opportunities to access the capital markets taking into account our regulatory capital ratios, financial condition and other relevant considerations, and subject to market conditions, we may take further capital actions.  Such actions could include, among other things, the issuance of additional shares of common stock in public or private transactions in order to further increase our capital levels above the requirements for a well-capitalized institution established by the Federal bank regulatory agencies as well as other regulatory targets.. The issuance of any additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock or that represent the right to receive common stock, or the exercise of such securities including, without limitation, securities issued upon exercise of outstanding stock options under our stock option plans, could be substantially dilutive to shareholders of our common stock.  With the exception of one major shareholder, holders of our shares of common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle holders to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our shareholders.  The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of shares of our common stock or the perception that such sales could occur.. We may not be able to maintain our historical growth rate which may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.. We have initiated internal asset growth programs, completed various acquisitions and opened additional offices in the past few years.  We may not be able to sustain our historical rate of asset growth or may not even be able to grow at all.  We may not be able to obtain the financing necessary to fund additional asset growth and may not be able to find suitable candidates for acquisition.  Various factors, such as economic conditions and competition, may impede or prohibit the opening of new branch offices.  Further, our inability to attract and retain experienced bankers may adversely affect our internal asset growth.  A significant decrease in our historical rate of asset growth may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.. We may be unable to complete future acquisitions, and once complete, may not be able to integrate our acquisitions successfully.. Our growth strategy includes our desire to acquire other financial institutions.  We may not be able to complete any future acquisitions and, for completed acquisitions, we may not be able to successfully integrate the operations, management, products and services of the entities we acquire.  We may not realize expected cost savings or make revenue enhancements.  Following each acquisition, we must expend substantial managerial, operating, financial and other resources to integrate these entities.  In particular, we may be required to install and standardize adequate operational and control systems, deploy or modify equipment, implement marketing efforts in new as well as existing locations and employ and maintain qualified personnel.  Our failure to successfully integrate the entities we acquire into our existing operations may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and local laws and regulations.. 19. Table of Contents. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state banking authorities.  Any change in applicable regulations or federal or state legislation could have a substantial impact on us and our operations.  Additional legislation and regulations may be enacted or adopted in the future that could significantly affect our powers, authority and operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  Further, regulators have significant discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties.  The exercise of this regulatory discretion and power may have a negative impact on us.. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for you to resell shares of common stock owned by you at times or at prices you find attractive.. The stock market and, in particular, the market for financial institution stocks, has experienced significant volatility, which, in recent quarters, has reached unprecedented levels.  In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices for certain issuers without regard to those issuers' underlying financial strength.  As a result, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate more than usual and cause significant price variations to occur.  This may make it difficult for you to resell shares of common stock owned by you at times or at prices you find attractive.  The low trading volume in our common shares on the NASDAQ Capital Market means that our shares may have less liquidity than other publicly traded companies.  We cannot ensure that the volume of trading in our common shares will be maintained or will increase in the future.. The trading price of the shares of our common stock will depend on many factors, which may change from time to time and which may be beyond our control, including, without limitation, our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects, future sales or offerings of our equity or equity related securities, and other factors identified above in the forward-looking statement discussion under the section titled \"Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Statements\" and below.  These broad market fluctuations have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are:. • actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition;. • changes in financial estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our common stock or those of other financial institutions;. • failure to meet analysts' revenue or earnings estimates;. • speculation in the press or investment community generally or relating to our reputation, our market area, our competitors or the financial services industry in general;. • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, restructurings, dispositions or financings;. • actions by our current shareholders, including sales of common stock by existing shareholders and/or directors and executive officers;. • fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors;. • future sales of our equity, equity-related or debt securities;. • changes in the frequency or amount of dividends or share repurchases;. • proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments;. • anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings, or litigation that involves or affects us;. • trading activities in our common stock, including short-selling;. • domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance; and. • general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry.. A significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for individual shareholders."
