[1] "ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS AND THE. TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, in which case you could lose all or part of your investment. You should also refer to the other information in this filing, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we currently deem immaterial also may become important factors that affect our Company. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms the \"Company,\" \"we,\" \"us,\" \"our\" or similar terms and \"Centene\" (i) prior to the closing of the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition, refer to Centene Corporation, together with its consolidated subsidiaries, without giving effect to the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition, and (ii) upon and after the closing of the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition, refer to us, after giving effect to the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition.. Reductions in funding, changes to eligibility requirements for government sponsored healthcare programs in which we participate and any inability on our part to effectively adapt to changes to these programs could substantially affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. The majority of our revenues come from government subsidized healthcare programs including Medicaid, Medicare, TRICARE, VA, CHIP, LTSS, ABD, Foster Care and Health Insurance Marketplace premiums. Under most programs, the base premium rate paid for each program differs, depending on a combination of factors such as defined upper payment limits, a member's health status, age, gender, county or region and benefit mix. Since Medicaid was created in 1965, the federal government and the states have shared the costs for this program, with the federal share currently averaging around 57%. We are therefore exposed to risks associated with U.S. and state government contracting or participating in programs involving a government payor, including but not limited to the general ability of the federal and/or state government to terminate contracts with it, in whole or in part, without prior notice, for convenience or for default based on performance; potential regulatory or legislative action that may materially modify amounts owed; and our dependence upon Congressional or legislative appropriation and allotment of funds and the impact that delays in government payments could have on our operating cash flow and liquidity. For example, future levels of funding and premium rates may be affected by continuing government efforts to contain healthcare costs and may further be affected by state and federal budgetary constraints. Governments periodically consider reducing or reallocating the amount of money they spend for Medicaid, Medicare, TRICARE, VA, CHIP, LTSS, ABD and Foster Care. Furthermore, Medicare remains subject to the automatic spending reductions imposed by the Budget Control Act of 2011 and the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 (\"sequestration\"), subject to a 2% cap. In addition, reductions in defense spending could have an adverse impact on certain government programs in which we currently participate by, among other things, terminating or materially changing such programs, or by decreasing or delaying payments made under such programs. Adverse economic conditions may continue to put pressures on state budgets as tax and other state revenues decrease while the population that is eligible to participate in these programs remains steady or increases, creating more need for funding. We anticipate this will require government agencies to find funding alternatives, which may result in reductions in funding for programs, contraction of covered benefits, and limited or no premium rate increases or premium rate decreases. A reduction (or less than expected increase), a protracted delay, or a change in allocation methodology in government funding for these programs, as well as termination of the contract for the convenience of the government, may materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. In addition, if a federal government shutdown were to occur for a prolonged period of time, federal government payment obligations, including its obligations under Medicaid, Medicare, TRICARE, VA, CHIP, LTSS, ABD, Foster Care and the Health Insurance Marketplaces, may be delayed. Similarly, if state government shutdowns were to occur, state payment obligations may be delayed. If the federal or state governments fail to make payments under these programs on a timely basis, our business could suffer, and our financial position, results of operations or cash flows may be materially affected.. Payments from government payors may be delayed in the future, which, if extended for any significant period of time, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, cash flows or liquidity. In addition, delays in obtaining, or failure to obtain or maintain, governmental approvals, or moratoria imposed by regulatory authorities, could adversely affect our revenues or membership, increase costs or adversely affect our ability to bring new products to market as forecasted. Other changes to our government programs could affect our willingness or ability to participate in any of these programs or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 20. Table of Contents. Finally, changes in these programs could reduce the number of persons enrolled in or eligible for these programs or increase our administrative or healthcare costs under these programs. For example, maintaining current eligibility levels could cause states to reduce reimbursement or reduce benefits in order for states to afford to maintain eligibility levels. If any state in which we operate were to decrease premiums paid to us or pay us less than the amount necessary to keep pace with our cost trends, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. Our Medicare programs are subject to a variety of risks that could adversely impact our financial results.. If we fail to design and maintain programs that are attractive to Medicare participants; if our Medicare operations are subject to negative outcomes from program audits, sanctions or penalties; if we do not submit adequate bids in our existing markets or any expansion markets; if our existing contracts are terminated; or if we fail to maintain or improve our quality Star ratings, our current Medicare business and our ability to expand our Medicare operations could be materially and adversely affected, negatively impacting our financial performance. As previously announced, CMS recently published Medicare Star ratings for the 2018 rating year. The achievement of Star ratings of four or higher for the 2018 rating year qualifies Medicare Advantage plans for quality bonus payments in 2019. The results from CMS indicate that Health Net of California, Inc.'s Medicare Advantage plan (H0562) will move to a 3.5 Star rating from a 4.0 Star rating for the 2018 rating year. The effect of this Star rating change will lower our parent Star rating for the 2018 rating year from 4.0 stars to 3.5 stars and, therefore, our plans that use the parent rating as well as the Medicare Advantage plan (H0562) will not be eligible for the quality bonus payments in 2019. These lowered Star ratings for the 2018 rating year for the Medicare Advantage plan (H0562) and the Company may reduce the attractiveness of the affected plans and our other offerings to members, reduce revenue from the affected plan and impact our Medicare expansion efforts, which are a strategic focus for the Company. We continue to evaluate the potential impact of the lowered ratings on our revenues and expansion efforts in 2019. There are also specific additional risks under Title XVIII, Part D of the Social Security Act associated with our provision of Medicare Part D prescription drug benefits as part of our Medicare Advantage plan offerings. These risks include potential uncollectibility of receivables, inadequacy of pricing assumptions, inability to receive and process information and increased pharmaceutical costs, as well as the underlying seasonality of this business, and extended settlement periods for claims submissions. Our failure to comply with Part D program requirements can result in financial and/or operational sanctions on our Part D products, as well as on our Medicare Advantage products that offer no prescription drug coverage.. Failure to accurately estimate and price our medical expenses or effectively manage our medical costs or related administrative costs could negatively affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Our profitability, to a significant degree, depends on our ability to estimate and effectively manage expenses related to health benefits through, among other things, our ability to contract favorably with hospitals, physicians and other healthcare providers. For example, our Medicaid revenue is often based on bids submitted before the start of the initial contract year. If our actual medical expense exceeds our estimates, our health benefits ratio (HBR), or our expenses related to medical services as a percentage of premium revenues, would increase and our profits would decline. Because of the narrow margins of our health plan business, relatively small changes in our HBR can create significant changes in our financial results. Changes in healthcare regulations and practices, the level of utilization of healthcare services, hospital and pharmaceutical costs, disasters, the potential effects of climate change, major epidemics, pandemics or newly emergent viruses, new medical technologies, new pharmaceutical compounds, increases in provider fraud and other external factors, including general economic conditions such as inflation and unemployment levels, are generally beyond our control and could reduce our ability to accurately predict and effectively control the costs of providing health benefits. In addition, the 2018 marketplace for individual products may continue to be less stable than in previous years because, among other things, other health plans have changed or stopped offering their Health Insurance Marketplace products in the states we expect to serve in 2018 or have announced plans to change their Health Insurance Marketplace product offerings in 2018. Also, member behavior could be influenced by the repeal of the ACA's individual mandate   in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA), and further uncertainty surrounding other potential changes to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the accompanying Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, collectively referred to as Affordable Care Act (ACA).. Our medical expense includes claims reported but not paid, estimates for claims incurred but not reported, and estimates for the costs necessary to process unpaid claims at the end of each period. Our development of the medical claims liability estimate is a continuous process which we monitor and refine on a monthly basis as claims receipts and payment information as well as inpatient acuity information becomes available. As more complete information becomes available, we adjust the amount of the estimate, and include the changes in estimates in medical expense in the period in which the changes are identified. Given the uncertainties inherent in such estimates, there can be no assurance that our medical claims liability estimate will be adequate, and any adjustments to the estimate may unfavorably impact our results of operations and may be material.. 21. Table of Contents. Additionally, when we commence operations in a new state, region or product, we have limited information with which to estimate our medical claims liability. For a period of time after the inception of the new business, we base our estimates on government-provided historical actuarial data and limited actual incurred and received claims and inpatient acuity information. The addition of new categories of eligible individuals as well as evolving Health Insurance Marketplace plans may pose difficulty in estimating our medical claims liability.. From time to time in the past, our actual results have varied from our estimates, particularly in times of significant changes in the number of our members. If it is determined that our estimates are significantly different than actual results, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. In addition, if there is a significant delay in our receipt of premiums, our business operations, cash flows, or earnings could be negatively impacted.. The implementation of the ACA, as well as potential repeal of or changes to the ACA, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. In March 2010, the ACA was enacted. While the constitutionality of the ACA was generally upheld by the Supreme Court in 2012, the Court determined that states could elect to opt out of the Medicaid expansion portion of ACA without losing all federal money for their existing Medicaid programs.. Under the ACA, Medicaid coverage was expanded to all individuals under age 65 with incomes up to 138% of the federal poverty level beginning January 1, 2014, subject to each states' election. The federal government pays the entire costs for Medicaid coverage for newly eligible beneficiaries for three years (2014 through 2016). Beginning in 2017, the federal share begins to decline, ending at 90% for 2020 and subsequent years. As of December 31, 2017, 32 states and the District of Columbia have expanded Medicaid eligibility, and additional states continue to discuss expansion. The ACA also maintained CHIP eligibility standards through September 2019.. The ACA required the establishment of Health Insurance Marketplaces for individuals and small employers to purchase health insurance coverage. The ACA also required insurers participating on the Health Insurance Marketplaces to offer a minimum level of benefits and included guidelines on setting premium rates and coverage limitations. On December 22, 2017, the TCJA was signed, repealing the individual mandate requirement of the ACA beginning in 2019. This change and other potential changes involving the functioning of the Health Insurance Marketplaces as a result of new legislation, regulation or executive action, could impact our business and results of operations.. Any failure to adequately price products offered or reduction in products offered in the Health Insurance Marketplaces may have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flow. Among other things, due to the repeal of the individual mandate in the TCJA, we may be adversely selected by individuals who have higher acuity levels than those individuals who selected us in the past and healthy individuals may decide to opt out of the pool altogether. In addition, the risk corridor, reinsurance and risk adjustment (\"three Rs\") provisions of the ACA established to apportion risk amongst insurers may not be effective in appropriately mitigating the financial risks related to the Marketplace product. Further, the three Rs may not be adequately funded. Moreover, changes in the competitive marketplace over time may exacerbate the uncertainty in these relatively new markets. For example, competitors seeking to gain a foothold in the changing market may introduce pricing that we may not be able to match, which may adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. Competitors may also choose to exit the market altogether or otherwise suffer financial difficulty, which could adversely impact the pool of potential insured, require us to increase premium rates or result in funding issues under the three Rs. These potential exits and other continued volatility in this market may be further exacerbated by the conclusion of the risk corridor and reinsurance programs as of January 1, 2017. Our continued success in the exchanges is dependent on our ability to successfully respond to these changes in the market over time. Any significant variation from our expectations regarding acuity, enrollment levels, adverse selection, the three Rs, or other assumptions utilized in setting adequate premium rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has stated that it will consider a limited number of premium assistance demonstration proposals from States that want to privatize Medicaid expansion. States must provide a choice between at least two qualified health plans and offer very similar benefits as those available in the Health Insurance Marketplaces. Arkansas became the first state to obtain federal approval to use Medicaid funding to purchase private insurance for low-income residents and we began operations under the program beginning January 1, 2014. As of December 31, 2017, seven states had approved Section 1115 waivers to implement the ACA's Medicaid expansion in ways that extend beyond the flexibility provided by the federal law.. 22. Table of Contents. The ACA imposed an annual insurance industry assessment of $8.0 billion in 2014, and $11.3 billion in each of 2015 and 2016, with increasing annual amounts thereafter. The health insurer fee payable in 2017 was suspended by the Consolidated Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2016. However, the $14.3 billion payment resumes in 2018 for the fiscal year 2017. Such assessments are not deductible for federal and most state income tax purposes. The fee is allocated based on health insurers' premium revenues in the previous year. Each health insurer's fee is calculated by multiplying its market share by the annual fee. Market share is based on commercial, Medicare, and Medicaid premium revenues. Not-for-profit insurers may have a competitive advantage since they are exempt from paying the fee if they receive at least 80% of their premium revenues from Medicare, Medicaid, and CHIP, and other not-for-profit insurers are allowed to exclude 50% of their premium revenues from the fee calculation. If we are not reimbursed by the states for the cost of the federal premium assessment (including the associated tax impact), or if we are unable to otherwise adjust our business model to address this new assessment, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows may be materially adversely affected.. There are numerous steps regulators required for continued implementation of the ACA, including the promulgation of a substantial number of new and potentially more onerous federal regulations. For example, in April 2016, CMS issued final regulations that revised existing Medicaid managed care rules by establishing a minimum MLR standard for Medicaid of 85% and strengthening provisions related to network adequacy and access to care, enrollment and disenrollment protections, beneficiary support information, continued service during beneficiary appeals, and delivery system and payment reform initiatives, among others. If we fail to effectively implement or appropriately adjust our operational and strategic initiatives with respect to the implementation of healthcare reform, or do not do so as effectively as our competitors, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected.. In addition, House v. Hargan (previously v. Burwell, et al., and v. Price, et al.), the suit that was brought by House Republicans, was settled in December 2017. The new administration's decision to stop the cost sharing subsidies rendered further challenge to the cost sharing subsidy payments unnecessary. While 2018 premium rates for Health Insurance Marketplace were set without factoring in the cost sharing subsidy payments from the federal government, the new administration's decision to end payments could affect our earnings.. Changes to, or repeal of, portions or the entirety of the ACA, could materially and adversely affect our business and financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Even if the ACA is not amended or repealed, the new administration could propose changes impacting implementation of the ACA, which could materially and adversely affect our financial position or operations. However, the ultimate content, timing or effect of any potential future legislation enacted under the new administration cannot be predicted.. Our business activities are highly regulated and new laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations or their enforcement or application could force us to change how we operate and could harm our business.. Our business is extensively regulated by the states in which we operate and by the federal government. In addition, the managed care industry has received negative publicity that has led to increased legislation, regulation, review of industry practices and private litigation in the commercial sector. Such negative publicity may adversely affect our stock price and damage our reputation in various markets.. In each of the jurisdictions in which we operate, we are regulated by the relevant insurance, health and/or human services or government departments that oversee the activities of managed care organizations providing or arranging to provide services to Medicaid, Medicare, Health Insurance Marketplace enrollees or other beneficiaries. For example, our health plan subsidiaries, as well as our applicable specialty companies, must comply with minimum statutory capital and other financial solvency requirements, such as deposit and surplus requirements.. The frequent enactment of, changes to, or interpretations of laws and regulations could, among other things: force us to restructure our relationships with providers within our network; require us to implement additional or different programs and systems; restrict revenue and enrollment growth; increase our healthcare and administrative costs; impose additional capital and surplus requirements; and increase or change our liability to members in the event of malpractice by our contracted providers. In addition, changes in political party or administrations at the state, federal or country level may change the attitude towards healthcare programs and result in changes to the existing legislative or regulatory environment.. Additionally, the taxes and fees paid to federal, state and local governments may increase due to several factors, including:  enactment of, changes to, or interpretations of tax laws and regulations, audits by governmental authorities, geographic expansions into higher taxing jurisdictions and the effect of expansions into international markets.. 23. Table of Contents. Our contracts with states may require us to maintain a minimum HBR or may require us to share profits in excess of certain levels. In certain circumstances, our plans may be required to return premium back to the state in the event profits exceed established levels or HBR does not meet the minimum requirement. Other states may require us to meet certain performance and quality metrics in order to maintain our contract or receive additional or full contractual revenue.. The governmental healthcare programs in which we participate are subject to the satisfaction of certain regulations and performance standards. For example, under the ACA, Congress authorized CMS and the states to implement managed care demonstration programs to serve dually eligible beneficiaries to improve the coordination of their care. Participation in these demonstration programs is subject to CMS approval and the satisfaction of conditions to participation, including meeting certain performance requirements. Our inability to improve or maintain adequate quality scores and Star ratings to meet government performance requirements or to match the performance of our competitors could result in limitations to our participation in or exclusion from these or other government programs. Specifically, several of our Medicaid contracts require us to maintain a Medicare health plan. Although we strive to comply with all existing regulations and to meet performance standards applicable to our business, failure to meet these requirements could result in financial fines and penalties. Also, states or other governmental entities may not allow us to continue to participate in their government programs, or we may fail to win procurements to participate in such programs which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. In addition, as a result of the expansion of our businesses and operations conducted in foreign countries, we face political, economic, legal, compliance, regulatory, operational and other risks and exposures that are unique and vary by jurisdiction. These foreign regulatory requirements with respect to, among other items, environmental, tax, licensing, intellectual property, privacy, data protection, investment, capital, management control, labor relations, and fraud and corruption regulations are different than those faced by our domestic businesses. In addition, we are subject to U.S. laws that regulate the conduct and activities of U.S.-based businesses operating abroad, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Our failure to comply with laws and regulations governing our conduct outside the United States or to successfully navigate international regulatory regimes that apply to us could adversely affect our ability to market our products and services, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our businesses providing pharmacy benefit management (PBM) and specialty pharmacy services face regulatory and other risks and uncertainties which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. We provide PBM and specialty pharmacy services, including through our Envolve Pharmacy Solutions product. These businesses are subject to federal and state laws that govern the relationships of the business with pharmaceutical manufacturers, physicians, pharmacies, customers and consumers. We also conduct business as a mail order pharmacy and specialty pharmacy, which subjects these businesses to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations. In addition, federal and state legislatures regularly consider new regulations for the industry that could materially and adversely affect current industry practices, including the receipt or disclosure of rebates from pharmaceutical companies, the development and use of formularies, and the use of average wholesale prices.. Our PBM and specialty pharmacy businesses would be materially and adversely affected by an inability to contract on favorable terms with pharmaceutical manufacturers and other suppliers, including with respect to the pricing of new specialty and generic drugs. In addition, our PBM and specialty pharmacy businesses could face potential claims in connection with purported errors by our mail order or specialty pharmacies, including in connection with the risks inherent in the authorization, compounding, packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other healthcare products. Disruptions at any of our mail order or specialty pharmacies due to an event that is beyond our control could affect our ability to process and dispense prescriptions in a timely manner and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. 24. Table of Contents. If any of our government contracts are terminated or are not renewed on favorable terms or at all, or if we receive an adverse finding or review resulting from an audit or investigation, our business may be adversely affected.. A substantial portion of our business relates to the provision of managed care programs and selected services to individuals receiving benefits under governmental assistance or entitlement programs. We provide these and other healthcare services under contracts with government entities in the areas in which we operate. Our government contracts are generally intended to run for a fixed number of years and may be extended for an additional specified number of years if the contracting entity or its agent elects to do so. When our contracts with the government expire, they may be opened for bidding by competing healthcare providers, and there is no guarantee that our contracts will be renewed or extended. Competitors may buy their way into the market by submitting bids with lower pricing. Even if our responsive bids are successful, the bids may be based upon assumptions or other factors which could result in the contracts being less profitable than we had anticipated. Further, our government contracts contain certain provisions regarding eligibility, enrollment and dis-enrollment processes for covered services, eligible providers, periodic financial and informational reporting, quality assurance, timeliness of claims payment and agreement to maintain a Medicare plan in the state and financial standards, among other things, and are subject to cancellation if we fail to perform in accordance with the standards set by regulatory agencies.. We are also subject to various reviews, audits and investigations to verify our compliance with the terms of our contracts with various governmental agencies, as well as compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Any adverse review, audit or investigation could result in, among other things: cancellation of our contracts; refunding of amounts we have been paid pursuant to our contracts; imposition of fines, penalties and other sanctions on us; loss of our right to participate in various programs; increased difficulty in selling our products and services; loss of one or more of our licenses; lowered quality Star ratings; or require changes to the way we do business. In addition, under government procurement regulations and practices, a negative determination resulting from a government audit of our business practices could result in a contractor being fined, debarred and/or suspended from being able to bid on, or be awarded, new government contracts for a period of time.. If any of our government contracts are terminated, not renewed, renewed on less favorable terms, or not renewed on a timely basis, or if we receive an adverse finding or review resulting from an audit or investigation, our business and reputation may be adversely impacted, our goodwill could be impaired and our financial position, results of operations or cash flows may be materially affected.. We contract with independent third party vendors and service providers who provide services to us and our subsidiaries or to whom we delegate selected functions. Violations of, or noncompliance with, laws and regulations governing our business by such third parties, or governing our dealings with such parties, could, among other things, subject us to additional audits, reviews and investigations and other adverse effects.. Ineffectiveness of state-operated systems and subcontractors could adversely affect our business.. A number of our health plans rely on other state-operated systems or subcontractors to qualify, solicit, educate and assign eligible members into managed care plans. The effectiveness of these state operations and subcontractors can have a material effect on a health plan's enrollment in a particular month or over an extended period. When a state implements new programs to determine eligibility, new processes to assign or enroll eligible members into health plans, or chooses new subcontractors, there is an increased potential for an unanticipated impact on the overall number of members assigned to managed care plans.. Our investment portfolio may suffer losses which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or liquidity.. We maintain a significant investment portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments in a variety of securities, which are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks and will decline in value if interest rates increase or one of the issuers' credit ratings is reduced. As a result, we may experience a reduction in value or loss of our investments, which may have a negative adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.. Execution of our growth strategy may increase costs or liabilities, or create disruptions in our business.. Our growth strategy includes, without limitation, the acquisition and expansion of health plans participating in government sponsored healthcare programs and specialty services businesses, contract rights and related assets of other health plans both in our existing service areas and in new markets and start-up operations in new markets or new products in existing markets. Although we review the records of companies or businesses we plan to acquire, it is possible that we could assume unanticipated liabilities or adverse operating conditions, or an acquisition may not perform as well as expected or may not achieve timely profitability. We also face the risk that we will not be able to effectively integrate acquisitions into our existing operations effectively without substantial expense, delay or other operational or financial problems and we may need to divert more management resources to integration than we planned.. 25. Table of Contents. In connection with start-up operations and system migrations, we may incur significant expenses prior to commencement of operations and the receipt of revenue. For example, in order to obtain a certificate of authority in most jurisdictions, we must first establish a provider network, have systems in place and demonstrate our ability to administer a state contract and process claims. We may experience delays in operational start dates. As a result of these factors, start-up operations may decrease our profitability. In addition, we are planning to expand our business internationally and we will be subject to additional risks, including, but not limited to, political risk, an unfamiliar regulatory regime, currency exchange risk and exchange controls, cultural and language differences, foreign tax issues, and different labor laws and practices.. If we are unable to effectively execute our growth strategy, our future growth will suffer and our results of operations could be harmed.. If competing managed care programs are unwilling to purchase specialty services from us, we may not be able to successfully implement our strategy of diversifying our business lines.. We are seeking to diversify our business lines into areas that complement our government sponsored health plan business in order to grow our revenue stream and balance our dependence on risk reimbursement. In order to diversify our business, we must succeed in selling the services of our specialty subsidiaries not only to our managed care plans, but to programs operated by third-parties. Some of these third-party programs may compete with us in some markets, and they therefore may be unwilling to purchase specialty services from us. In any event, the offering of these services will require marketing activities that differ significantly from the manner in which we seek to increase revenues from our government sponsored programs. Our ineffectiveness in marketing specialty services to third-parties may impair our ability to execute our business strategy.. Adverse credit market conditions may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity or our ability to obtain credit on acceptable terms.. In the past, the securities and credit markets have experienced extreme volatility and disruption. The availability of credit, from virtually all types of lenders, has at times been restricted. In the event we need access to additional capital to pay our operating expenses, fund subsidiary surplus requirements, make payments on or refinance our indebtedness, pay capital expenditures, or fund acquisitions, our ability to obtain such capital may be limited and the cost of any such capital may be significant, particularly if we are unable to access our existing credit facility.. Our access to additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as prevailing economic and credit market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to our industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, and perceptions of our financial prospects. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. If a combination of these factors were to occur, our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain sufficient additional financing on favorable terms, within an acceptable time, or at all.. If state regulators do not approve payments of dividends and distributions by our subsidiaries to us, we may not have sufficient funds to implement our business strategy.. We principally operate through our health plan subsidiaries. As part of normal operations, we may make requests for dividends and distributions from our subsidiaries to fund our operations. These subsidiaries are subject to regulations that limit the amount of dividends and distributions that can be paid to us without prior approval of, or notification to, state regulators. If these regulators were to deny our subsidiaries' request to pay dividends, the funds available to us would be limited, which could harm our ability to implement our business strategy.. We derive a majority of our premium revenues from operations in a limited number of states, and our financial position, results of operations or cash flows would be materially affected by a decrease in premium revenues or profitability in any one of those states.. Operations in a limited number of states have accounted for most of our premium revenues to date. If we were unable to continue to operate in any of those states or if our current operations in any portion of one of those states were significantly curtailed, our revenues could decrease materially. Our reliance on operations in a limited number of states could cause our revenues and profitability to change suddenly and unexpectedly depending on legislative or other governmental or regulatory actions and decisions, economic conditions and similar factors in those states. For example, states we currently serve may open the bidding for their Medicaid program to other health insurers through a request for proposal process. Our inability to continue to operate in any of the states in which we operate could harm our business.. 26. Table of Contents. Competition may limit our ability to increase penetration of the markets that we serve.. We compete for members principally on the basis of size and quality of provider networks, benefits provided and quality of service. We compete with numerous types of competitors, including other health plans and traditional state Medicaid programs that reimburse providers as care is provided, as well as technology companies, new joint ventures, financial services firms, consulting firms and other non-traditional competitors. In addition, the administration of the ACA has the potential to shift the competitive landscape in our segment.. Some of the health plans with which we compete have greater financial and other resources and offer a broader scope of products than we do. In addition, significant merger and acquisition activity has occurred in the managed care industry, as well as complementary industries, such as the hospital, physician, pharmaceutical, medical device and health information systems businesses. To the extent that competition intensifies in any market that we serve, as a result of industry consolidation or otherwise, our ability to retain or increase members and providers, or maintain or increase our revenue growth, pricing flexibility and control over medical cost trends may be adversely affected.. If we are unable to maintain relationships with our provider networks, our profitability may be harmed.. Our profitability depends, in large part, upon our ability to contract at competitive prices with hospitals, physicians and other healthcare providers. Our provider arrangements with our primary care physicians, specialists and hospitals generally may be canceled by either party without cause upon 90 to 120 days prior written notice. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to continue to renew our existing contracts or enter into new contracts on a timely basis or under favorable terms enabling us to service our members profitably. Healthcare providers with whom we contract may not properly manage the costs of services, maintain financial solvency or avoid disputes with other providers. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the provision of services to our members and our operations.. In any particular market, physicians and other healthcare providers could refuse to contract, demand higher payments, or take other actions that could result in higher medical costs or difficulty in meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements, among other things. In some markets, certain healthcare providers, particularly hospitals, physician/hospital organizations or multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions or near monopolies that could result in diminished bargaining power on our part. In addition, accountable care organizations, practice management companies, which aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency and marketing leverage, and other organizational structures that physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers choose may change the way in which these providers interact with us and may change the competitive landscape. Such organizations or groups of healthcare providers may compete directly with us, which could adversely affect our operations, and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows by impacting our relationships with these providers or affecting the way that we price our products and estimate our costs, which might require us to incur costs to change our operations. Provider networks may consolidate, resulting in a reduction in the competitive environment. In addition, if these providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate contracts unfavorable to us or place us at a competitive disadvantage, our ability to market products or to be profitable in those areas could be materially and adversely affected.. From time to time healthcare providers assert or threaten to assert claims seeking to terminate non-cancelable agreements due to alleged actions or inactions by us. If we are unable to retain our current provider contract terms or enter into new provider contracts timely or on favorable terms, our profitability may be harmed. In addition, from time to time, we may be subject to class action or other lawsuits by healthcare providers with respect to claim payment procedures or similar matters. For example, our wholly owned subsidiary, Health Net Life Insurance Company (\"HNL\"), is and may continue to be subject to such disputes with respect to HNL's payment levels in connection with the processing of out-of-network provider reimbursement claims for the provision of certain substance abuse related services. HNL expects to vigorously defend its claims payment practices. Nevertheless, in the event HNL receives an adverse finding in any related legal proceeding or from a regulator, or is otherwise required to reimburse providers for these claims at rates that are higher than expected or for claims HNL otherwise believes are unallowable, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. In addition, regardless of whether any such lawsuits brought against us are successful or have merit, they will still be time-consuming and costly and could distract our management's attention. As a result, under such circumstances we may incur significant expenses and may be unable to operate our business effectively.. 27. Table of Contents. We may be unable to attract, retain or effectively manage the succession of key personnel.. We are highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel to operate and expand our business. We would be adversely impacted if we are unable to adequately plan for the succession of our executives and senior management. While we have succession plans in place for members of our executive and senior management team, these plans do not guarantee that the services of our executive and senior management team will continue to be available to us. Our ability to replace any departed members of our executive and senior management or other key employees may be difficult and may take an extended period of time because of the limited number of individuals in the managed care and specialty services industry with the breadth of skills and experience required to operate and successfully expand a business such as ours. Competition to hire from this limited pool is intense, and we may be unable to hire, train, retain or motivate these personnel. If we are unable to attract, retain and effectively manage the succession plans for key personnel, executives and senior management, our business and financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be harmed.. If we are unable to integrate and manage our information systems effectively, our operations could be disrupted.. Our operations depend significantly on effective information systems. The information gathered and processed by our information systems assists us in, among other things, monitoring utilization and other cost factors, processing provider claims, and providing data to our regulators. Our healthcare providers also depend upon our information systems for membership verifications, claims status and other information. Our information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet our operational needs and regulatory requirements. We regularly upgrade and expand our information systems' capabilities. If we experience difficulties with the transition to or from information systems or do not appropriately integrate, maintain, enhance or expand our information systems, we could suffer, among other things, operational disruptions, loss of existing members and difficulty in attracting new members, regulatory problems and increases in administrative expenses. In addition, our ability to integrate and manage our information systems may be impaired as the result of events outside our control, including acts of nature, such as earthquakes or fires, or acts of terrorists.. From time to time, we may become involved in costly and time-consuming litigation and other regulatory proceedings, which require significant attention from our management.. From time to time we are a defendant in lawsuits and regulatory actions and are subject to investigations relating to our business, including, without limitation, medical malpractice claims, claims by members alleging failure to pay for or provide healthcare, claims related to non-payment or insufficient payments for out-of-network services, claims alleging bad faith, investigations regarding our submission of risk adjuster claims, putative securities class actions, and claims related to the imposition of new taxes, including but not limited to claims that may have retroactive application. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. An unfavorable outcome could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows and may affect our reputation. In addition, regardless of the outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceedings, such proceedings are costly and time consuming and require significant attention from our management, and could therefore harm our business and financial position, results of operations or cash flows.. An impairment charge with respect to our recorded goodwill and intangible assets could have a material impact on our results of operations.. We periodically evaluate our goodwill and other intangible assets to determine whether all or a portion of their carrying values may be impaired, in which case a charge to earnings may be necessary. Changes in business strategy, government regulations or economic or market conditions have resulted and may result in impairments of our goodwill and other intangible assets at any time in the future. Our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators are based on, among other things, legal factors, market conditions, and operational performance. For example, the non-renewal of our health plan contracts with the state in which they operate may be an indicator of impairment. If an event or events occur that would cause us to revise our estimates and assumptions used in analyzing the value of our goodwill and other intangible assets, such revision could result in a non-cash impairment charge that could have a material impact on our results of operations in the period in which the impairment occurs.. 28. Table of Contents. If we fail to comply with applicable privacy, security, and data laws, regulations and standards, including with respect to third-party service providers that utilize sensitive personal information on our behalf, our business, reputation, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. As part of our normal operations, we collect, process and retain confidential member information. We are subject to various federal and state laws and rules regarding the use and disclosure of confidential member information, including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) and the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (HITECH) Act of 2009 and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which require us to protect the privacy of medical records and safeguard personal health information we maintain and use. Certain of our businesses are also subject to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, which is a multifaceted security standard that is designed to protect credit card account data as mandated by payment card industry entities. Despite our best attempts to maintain adherence to information privacy and security best practices as well as compliance with applicable laws, rules and contractual requirements, our facilities and systems, and those of our third party service providers, may be vulnerable to privacy or security breaches, acts of vandalism or theft, malware or other forms of cyber-attack, misplaced or lost data including paper or electronic media, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. In the past, we have had data breaches resulting in disclosure of confidential or protected health information that have not resulted in any material financial loss or penalty to date. However, future data breaches could require us to expend significant resources to remediate any damage, interrupt our operations and damage our reputation, subject us to state or federal agency review and could also result in enforcement actions, material fines and penalties, litigation or other actions which could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. In addition, HIPAA broadened the scope of fraud and abuse laws applicable to healthcare companies. HIPAA established new enforcement mechanisms to combat fraud and abuse, including civil and, in some instances, criminal penalties for failure to comply with specific standards relating to the privacy, security and electronic transmission of protected health information. The HITECH Act expanded the scope of these provisions by mandating individual notification in instances of breaches of protected health information, providing enhanced penalties for HIPAA violations, and granting enforcement authority to states' Attorneys General in addition to the HHS Office for Civil Rights. It is possible that Congress may enact additional legislation in the future to increase penalties and to create a private right of action under HIPAA, which could entitle patients to seek monetary damages for violations of the privacy rules. Additionally, HHS continued its auditing program in 2016 to assess compliance efforts by covered entities and business associates. Through a second phase of audits, which commenced for covered entities in July 2016, HHS focused on a review of policies and procedures adopted and employed by covered entities and their business associates to meet selected standards and implementation specifications of the HIPAA Privacy, Security, and Breach Notification Rules. An audit resulting in findings or allegations of noncompliance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. If we fail to comply with the extensive federal and state fraud and abuse laws, our business, reputation, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. We, along with all other companies involved in public healthcare programs are the subject of fraud and abuse investigations from time to time. The regulations and contractual requirements applicable to participants in these public sector programs are complex and subject to change. Violations of fraud and abuse laws applicable to us could result in civil monetary penalties, criminal fines and imprisonment, and/or exclusion from participation in Medicaid, Medicare, TRICARE, VA and other federal healthcare programs and federally funded state health programs. Fraud and abuse prohibitions encompass a wide range of activities, including kickbacks for referral of members, incorrect and unsubstantiated billing or billing for unnecessary medical services, improper marketing and violations of patient privacy rights. These fraud and abuse laws include the federal False Claims Act, which prohibits the known filing of a false claim or the known use of false statements to obtain payment from the federal government and the federal anti-kickback statute, which prohibits the payment or receipt of remuneration to induce referrals or recommendations of healthcare items or services. Many states have false claim act and anti-kickback statutes that closely resemble the federal False Claims Act and the federal anti-kickback statute. In addition, the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 encouraged states to enact state-versions of the federal False Claims Act that establish liability to the state for false and fraudulent Medicaid claims and that provide for, among other things, claims to be filed by qui tam relators. Federal and state governments have made investigating and prosecuting healthcare fraud and abuse a priority. In the event we fail to comply with the extensive federal and state fraud and abuse laws, our business, reputation, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. 29. Table of Contents. A failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties with which we do business, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could have an adverse effect on our business.. Information security risks have significantly increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct our operations, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists and other external parties, including foreign state agents. Our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential, proprietary and other information in our computer systems and networks.. Security breaches may arise from external or internal threats. External breaches include hacking personal information for financial gain, attempting to cause harm or interruption to our operations, or intending to obtain competitive information. We experience attempted external hacking or malicious attacks on a regular basis. We maintain a rigorous system of preventive and detective controls through our security programs; however, our prevention and detection controls may not prevent or identify all such attacks on a timely basis, or at all. Internal breaches may result from inappropriate security access to confidential information by rogue employees, consultants or third party service providers. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure or use of confidential member information, financial data, competitively sensitive information, or other proprietary data, whether by us or a third party, could have a material adverse effect on our business reputation, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations.. The market price of our common stock may decline as a result of significant acquisitions.. The market price of our common stock is generally subject to volatility, and there can be no assurances regarding the level or stability of our share price at any time. The market price of our common stock may decline as a result of acquisitions if, among other things, we are unable to achieve the expected growth in earnings, or if the operational cost savings estimates in connection with the integration of acquired businesses with ours are not realized, or if the transaction costs related to the acquisitions and integrations are greater than expected. The market price also may decline if we do not achieve the perceived benefits of the acquisitions as rapidly or to the extent anticipated by financial or industry analysts or if the effect of the acquisitions on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows is not consistent with the expectations of financial or industry analysts.. We may be unable to successfully integrate our business with Health Net and realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition.. We completed the acquisition of Health Net on March 24, 2016. The success of the acquisition of Health Net will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully combine the businesses of the Company and Health Net and realize the anticipated benefits, including synergies, cost savings, growth in earnings, innovation and operational efficiencies, from the combination. If we are unable to achieve these objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the anticipated benefits may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected and the value of our common stock may be harmed.. The integration of Health Net's business with our existing business is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. We have not previously completed a transaction comparable in size or scope to the acquisition of Health Net. The integration of the two companies may result in material challenges, including, without limitation:.  the diversion of management's attention from ongoing business concerns and performance shortfalls as a result of the devotion of management's attention to the integration;.  managing a larger combined company;.  maintaining employee morale and retaining key management and other employees;.  the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying expectations regarding the integration process;.  retaining existing business and operational relationships and attracting new business and operational relationships;.  consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating duplicative operations;.  coordinating geographically separate organizations;.  unanticipated issues in integrating information technology, communications and other systems;.  unanticipated changes in federal or state laws or regulations, including changes with respect to government healthcare programs, the ACA and any regulations enacted thereunder; and.  unforeseen expenses or delays associated with the acquisition and/or integration.. Many of these factors will be outside of our control and any one of them could result in delays, increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management's time and energy, which could materially affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. 30. Table of Contents. We have incurred substantial expenses related to the completion of the acquisition of Health Net and are incurring substantial expenses related to the integration of Health Net.. We are in the process of integrating a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems, including sales, pricing, and marketing, among other things. In addition, the businesses of Centene and Health Net will continue to maintain a presence in St. Louis, Missouri and Woodland Hills, California, respectively. The substantial majority of these costs will be non-recurring expenses related to the acquisition (including financing of the acquisition), facilities and systems consolidation costs. We may incur additional costs to maintain employee morale and to retain key employees. We are also incurring transaction fees and costs related to formulating integration plans for the combined business, and the execution of these plans may lead to additional unanticipated costs. These incremental transaction and acquisition related costs may exceed the savings we expect to achieve from the elimination of duplicative costs and the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, particularly in the near term and in the event there are material unanticipated costs.. Our future results may be adversely impacted if we do not effectively manage our expanded operations following the completion of our acquisition of Health Net.. The size of our business following the acquisition of Health Net is significantly larger than the size of either our or Health Net's respective businesses prior to the acquisition. Our ability to successfully manage the expanded business will depend, in part, upon management's ability to design and implement strategic initiatives that address the increased scale and scope of the combined business with its associated increased costs and complexity. We will also have to manage our expanded operations in compliance with certain undertakings with regulators that were agreed to in connection with the approval of the acquisition. These undertakings require significant investments by us, may restrict or impose additional material costs on our future operations and strategic initiatives in certain geographies, and subject us to various enforcement mechanisms. There can be no assurances that we will be successful in managing our expanded operations or that we will realize the expected growth in earnings, operating efficiencies, cost savings and other benefits.. We have substantial indebtedness outstanding and may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Such indebtedness could reduce our agility and may adversely affect our financial condition.. As of December 31, 2017, we had consolidated indebtedness of approximately $4,699 million. We may further increase our indebtedness in the future. This increased indebtedness and higher debt-to-equity ratio will have the effect, among other things, of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and increasing borrowing costs.. Among other things, our revolving credit facility requires us to comply with various covenants that impose restrictions on our operations, including our ability to incur additional indebtedness, create liens, pay dividends, make investments or other restricted payments, sell or otherwise dispose of substantially all of our assets and engage in other activities. Our revolving credit facility also requires us to comply with a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. These restrictive covenants could limit our ability to pursue our business strategies. In addition, any failure by us to comply with these restrictive covenants could result in an event of default under the revolving credit facility and, in some circumstances, under the indentures governing our notes, which, in any case, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. The Proposed Fidelis Acquisition may not occur, and if it does, it may not be accretive and may cause dilution to our earnings per share, which may negatively affect the market price of our common stock.. Although we currently anticipate that the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition will occur and will be accretive to earnings per share (on an adjusted earnings basis that is not pursuant to GAAP) from and after the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition, this expectation is based on assumptions about our and Fidelis Care's business and preliminary estimates, which may change materially. As a result, should the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition occur, certain other amounts to be paid in connection with the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition may cause dilution to our earnings per share or decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition and cause a decrease in the market price of our common stock. The Proposed Fidelis Acquisition may not occur as a result. In addition, we could also encounter additional transaction-related costs or other factors such as the failure to realize all of the benefits anticipated in the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition, including cost and revenue synergies. All of these factors could cause dilution to our earnings per share or decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition and cause a decrease in the market price of our common stock.. 31. Table of Contents. The Proposed Fidelis Acquisition is subject to conditions, some or all of which may not be satisfied, or completed on a timely basis, if at all. Failure to complete the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition could have material adverse effects on our business.. The completion of the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition is subject to a number of conditions, including, among others, the receipt of certain regulatory approvals, which make the completion and timing of the completion of the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition uncertain. Also, either we or Fidelis Care may terminate the asset purchase agreement if the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition has not been consummated by July 1, 2018 (or September 1, 2018 if the extension is exercised), except that this right to terminate the asset purchase agreement will not be available to any party whose failure to fulfill any obligation under the asset purchase agreement has been the cause of or resulted in the failure of the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition to be consummated on or before that date.. If the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition is not completed, our ongoing business may be materially adversely affected and, without realizing any of the benefits that we could have realized had the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition been completed, we will be subject to a number of risks, including the following:.  the market price of our common stock could decline;.  if the asset purchase agreement is terminated and our board of directors (Board) seeks another business combination, our stockholders cannot be certain that we will be able to find a party willing to enter into any transaction on terms equivalent to or more attractive than the terms that we and Fidelis Care have agreed to in the asset purchase agreement;.  time and resources committed by our management to matters relating to the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition could otherwise have been devoted to pursuing other beneficial opportunities;.  we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets or from our customers or employees; and.  we will be required to pay our costs relating to the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition, such as legal, accounting, financial advisory and printing fees, whether or not the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition is completed.. In addition, if the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition is not completed, we could be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition or related to any enforcement proceeding commenced against us to perform our obligations under the asset purchase agreement. If any such risk materializes, it could adversely impact our ongoing business.. Similarly, delays in the completion of the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition could, among other things, result in additional transaction costs, loss of revenue or other negative effects associated with uncertainty about completion of the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition and cause us not to realize some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve if the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition is successfully completed within its expected timeframe. We cannot assure you that the conditions to the closing of the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition will be satisfied or waived or that the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition will be consummated.. Centene and Fidelis Care are each subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the proposed acquisition is pending, which could adversely affect the business and operations of us or the combined company.. In connection with the pendency of the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition, it is possible that some customers, suppliers and other persons with whom we or Fidelis Care has a business relationship may delay or defer certain business decisions or might decide to seek to terminate, change or renegotiate their relationships with us or Fidelis Care, as the case may be, as a result of the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition, which could negatively affect our current or the combined company's future revenues, earnings and cash flows, as well as the market price of our common stock, regardless of whether the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition is completed.. Under the terms of the asset purchase agreement, Fidelis Care is subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of its business prior to completing the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition, which may adversely affect its ability to execute certain of its business strategies, including the ability in certain cases to enter into or amend contracts, acquire or dispose of assets, incur indebtedness or incur capital expenditures. Such limitations could adversely affect Fidelis Care's business and operations prior to the completion of the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition.. Each of the risks described above may be exacerbated by delays or other adverse developments with respect to the completion of the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition.. 32. Table of Contents. The Proposed Fidelis Acquisition is subject to the receipt of approvals, consents or clearances from regulatory authorities that may impose conditions that could have an adverse effect on us or the combined company or, if not obtained, could prevent completion of the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition.. Before the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition may be completed, any approvals, consents or clearances required in connection with the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition must have been obtained, in each case, under applicable law, including pursuant to the insurance laws, not-for-profit laws and, in some instances, state healthcare laws. In deciding whether to grant the required regulatory approval, consent or clearance, the relevant governmental entities will consider the effect of the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition on competition within their relevant jurisdiction. The terms and conditions of the approvals, consents and clearances that are granted may impose requirements, limitations or costs or place restrictions on the conduct of the combined company's business. Under the asset purchase agreement, we have agreed with Fidelis Care to use our reasonable best efforts to obtain such approvals, consents and clearances and therefore may be required to comply with conditions or limitations imposed by governmental authorities, except that (i) we may not be required to agree to any term, limitation, restriction or requirement that, individually or in the aggregate, (a) would have or could reasonably be expected to have a material and adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations or business of us or Fidelis Care, in each case, as currently conducted, (b) would or could reasonably be expected to have a material and adverse effect on any lines or types of business, in the aggregate, in which we or Fidelis Care shall be permitted to engage or (c) would have or could reasonably be expected to have a material and adverse effect on the overall benefits that we reasonably expect to derive from the consummation of the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition and (ii) Fidelis Care may not be required to agree to any term, limitation, restriction or requirement that, individually or in the aggregate, would have or could reasonably be expected to have a material and adverse effect on the overall benefits that Fidelis Care reasonably expects to derive from the consummation of the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition.. In addition, regulators may impose conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions in connection with their approval of or consent to the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition, and such conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions may delay completion of the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition or impose additional material costs on or materially limit the revenues of the combined company following the completion of the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition. Regulators may impose such conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions, and, if imposed, such conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions may delay or lead to the abandonment of the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition.. Uncertainties associated with the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition may cause a loss of management personnel and other key employees, which could adversely affect the future business and operations of the combined company.. We and Fidelis Care are each dependent on the experience and industry knowledge of their officers and other key employees to execute their business plans. The combined company's success after the completion of the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition will depend in part upon the ability of each of us and Fidelis Care to retain key management personnel and other key employees. Prior to completion of the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition, current and prospective employees of each of us and Fidelis Care may experience uncertainty about their roles within the combined company following the completion of the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition, which may have an adverse effect on the ability of each of us and Fidelis Care to attract or retain key management and other key personnel. In addition, no assurance can be given that the combined company will be able to attract or retain key management personnel and other key employees of each of us and Fidelis Care to the same extent that we and Fidelis Care have previously been able to attract or retain their own employees.. Completion of the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition may trigger change in control or other provisions in certain agreements to which Fidelis Care is a party, which may have an adverse impact on the combined company's business and results of operations.. The completion of the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition may trigger change in control and other provisions in certain agreements to which Fidelis Care is a party. If we are unable to negotiate waivers of those provisions with Fidelis Care, the counterparties may exercise their rights and remedies under the agreements, potentially terminating the agreements or seeking monetary damages. Even if we are able to negotiate waivers with Fidelis Care, the counterparties may require a fee for such waivers or seek to renegotiate the agreements on terms less favorable to Fidelis Care or the combined company. Any of the foregoing or similar developments may have an adverse impact on the combined company's business and results of operations.. 33. Table of Contents. The combined company may be unable to successfully integrate our business with the assets acquired in the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition and realize the anticipated benefits of the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition.. The success of the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition will depend, in part, on the combined company's ability to successfully combine our business and the assets acquired in the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition, and realize the anticipated benefits, including synergies, cost savings, innovation and operational efficiencies, from the combination. If the combined company is unable to achieve these objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the anticipated benefits may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected and the value of its common stock may be harmed. Additionally, rating agencies may take negative actions against the combined company.. The Proposed Fidelis Acquisition involves the integration of certain assets of Fidelis Care with our existing business, which is expected to be a complex, costly and time-consuming process. The integration may result in material challenges, including, without limitation:.  the diversion of management's attention from ongoing business concerns and performance shortfalls at one or both of the companies as a result of the devotion of management's attention to the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition;.  managing a larger combined company;.  maintaining employee morale and retaining key management and other employees;.  the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying expectations regarding the integration process;.  retaining existing business and operational relationships and attracting new business and operational relationships;.  consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating duplicative operations;.  coordinating geographically separate organizations;.  unanticipated issues in integrating information technology, communications and other systems;.  unanticipated changes in federal or state laws or regulations, including the ACA and any regulations enacted thereunder;.  decreases in premiums paid under government sponsored healthcare programs by any state in which the combined company operates; and.  unforeseen expenses or delays associated with the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition.. Many of these factors will be outside of the combined company's control and any one of them could result in delays, increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management's time and energy, which could materially affect the combined company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. The integration of Fidelis Care with our business may result in unforeseen expenses, and the anticipated benefits of the integration plan may not be realized. These integration matters could have an adverse effect on (i) each of us and Fidelis Care during this transition period and (ii) the combined company for an undetermined period after completion of the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition. In addition, any actual cost savings of the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition could be less than anticipated.. The future results of the combined company may be adversely impacted if the combined company does not effectively manage its expanded operations following the completion of the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition.. Following the completion of the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition, the size of the combined company's business will be significantly larger than the current size of our business. The combined company's ability to successfully manage this expanded business will depend, in part, upon management's ability to design and implement strategic initiatives that address not only the integration of two discrete companies, but also the increased scale and scope of the combined business with its associated increased costs and complexity. The combined company may not be successful or may not realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings and other benefits currently anticipated from the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition.. 34. Table of Contents. The combined company is expected to incur substantial expenses related to the completion of the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition and the integration of our business with Fidelis Care.. The combined company is expected to incur substantial expenses in connection with the completion of the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition and the integration of our business with substantially all of the assets of Fidelis Care. There are a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems that must be integrated, including purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, payroll, pricing, revenue management, marketing and benefits. In addition, our businesses and Fidelis Care will continue to maintain a presence in St. Louis, Missouri and New York, New York, respectively. The substantial majority of these costs will be non-recurring expenses related to the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition (including financing of the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition), facilities and systems consolidation costs. The combined company may incur additional costs to maintain employee morale and to retain key employees. We will also incur transaction fees and costs related to formulating integration plans for the combined business, and the execution of these plans may lead to additional unanticipated costs. Additionally, as a result of the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition, rating agencies may take negative actions with regard to the combined company's credit ratings, which may increase the combined company's costs in connection with the financing of the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition. These incremental transaction and acquisition related costs may exceed the savings the combined company expects to achieve from the elimination of duplicative costs and the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, particularly in the near term and in the event there are material unanticipated costs.. We will incur additional indebtedness to finance the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition.. In connection with the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition, we expect to incur approximately $1.6 billion in additional indebtedness, assuming we do not use the option to fund up to $500 million of the acquisition consideration in our common stock and assuming we issue approximately $2.3 billion of new equity. The combined company will have consolidated indebtedness of approximately $6.3 billion, which is greater than our current indebtedness prior to the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition. The increased indebtedness of the combined company in comparison to ours on a historical basis could adversely affect us in a number of ways, including:.  affecting our ability to pay or refinance its debts as they become due during adverse economic, financial market and industry conditions;.  requiring us to use a larger portion of its cash flow for debt service, reducing funds available for other purposes;.  causing us to be less able to take advantage of business opportunities, such as acquisition opportunities, and to react to changes in market or industry conditions;.  increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments;.  affecting our ability to obtain additional financing;.  decreasing our profitability and/or cash flow;.  causing us to be disadvantaged compared to competitors with less leverage;.  resulting in a downgrade in our credit rating or any of our indebtedness or our subsidiaries which could increase the cost of further borrowings; and.  limiting our ability to borrow additional funds in the future to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes.. The financing arrangements that the combined company will enter into in connection with the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition may, under certain circumstances, contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly impact the combined company's ability to operate its business.. We intend to incur additional indebtedness in connection with the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition. We expect that the agreements governing the indebtedness incurred in connection with the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition will contain covenants that, among other things, may, under certain circumstances, place limitations on the dollar amounts paid or other actions relating to:.  payments in respect of, or redemptions or acquisitions of, debt or equity issued by the combined company or its subsidiaries, including the payment of dividends on our common stock;.  incurring additional indebtedness;.  incurring guarantee obligations;.  paying dividends;. 35. Table of Contents.  creating liens on assets;.  entering into sale and leaseback transactions;.  making investments, loans or advances;.  entering into hedging transactions;.  engaging in mergers, consolidations or sales of all or substantially all of their respective assets; and.  engaging in certain transactions with affiliates.. In addition, the combined company will be required to maintain a minimum amount of excess availability as set forth in these agreements.. The combined company's ability to maintain minimum excess availability in future periods will depend on its ongoing financial and operating performance, which in turn will be subject to economic conditions and to financial, market and competitive factors, many of which are beyond the combined company's control. The ability to comply with this covenant in future periods will also depend on the combined company's ability to successfully implement its overall business strategy and realize contemplated synergies.. Various risks, uncertainties and events beyond the combined company's control could affect its ability to comply with the covenants contained in its debt agreements. Failure to comply with any of the covenants in its existing or future financing agreements could result in a default under those agreements and under other agreements containing cross-default provisions. A default would permit lenders to accelerate the maturity of indebtedness under these agreements and to foreclose upon any collateral securing such indebtedness. Under these circumstances, the combined company might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of its obligations. In addition, the limitations imposed by financing agreements on the combined company's ability to incur additional indebtedness and to take other actions might significantly impair its ability to obtain other financing.. We have obtained commitment letters for the senior unsecured budge loan facility. However, neither the definitive loan documents, nor the terms of any debt financing in lieu of such bridge financing, have been finalized.. Future issuances and sales of additional shares of preferred or common stock, including shares issued in connection with the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition, could reduce the market price of our shares of common stock.. Subject to market conditions, we intend to fund the purchase price for the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition with $2.3 billion of new equity, including shares paid as consideration. Any such issuances and sales of our preferred or common stock could have the effect of depressing the market price for our common stock. Further, any sale of shares to finance a portion of the purchase price for the Proposed Fidelis Acquisition will be subject to market conditions and could be negatively impacted by a decline in the market price for our common stock. In addition, in the future we may issue additional securities to raise capital or in connection with acquisitions. We often acquire interests in other companies by using a combination of cash and our common stock or just our common stock. Further, shares of preferred stock may be issued from time to time in one or more series as our Board may from time to time determine each such series to be distinctively designated. The issuance of any such preferred stock could materially adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock. Any of these events may dilute your ownership interest in our company and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock."
