[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. The following discussion sets forth the material risk factors that could affect our financial condition and operations. Readers should not consider any descriptions of such factors to be a complete set of all potential risks that could affect us. Below, we describe certain important operational, financial, strategic and legal and compliance risks.. Operational Risks. Operational risks relate to risks arising from systems, processes, people and external events that affect the operation of our business, including supply chain and business disruption and data protection and security, including cyber security.. We are dependent on existing inventory, purchases of material from suppliers and purchases from other sources to meet our obligations to customers.. We are currently dependent on existing inventory, purchases from TENEX and purchases from other sources to meet our obligations to customers. We are acquiring alternative sources of supply in the market, given the current oversupply. The availability, cost and terms of additional alternative sources of supply are subject to variables that are difficult to predict. A significant delay in, or stoppage or termination of, deliveries of material under those supply agreements could adversely affect our ability to make deliveries to customers and would adversely affect revenues and results of operations. A delay, stoppage or termination could occur due to a number of factors, including logistical problems with shipments, commercial or political disputes between the parties or their governments, imposition of sanctions, quotas, duties or other restrictions or a failure or inability by either party to meet the terms of such agreements. An interruption of deliveries could adversely impact our business, results of operations, and prospects.. We may be unable to sell all of the LEU purchased under supply agreements for prices that cover our purchase costs, which could adversely affect profitability and the viability of our business.. We may not achieve the anticipated benefits from supply agreements we enter into. For example, the price we are charged for the SWU component of Russian LEU under the Russian Supply Agreement is determined by a formula that combines a mix of market-related price points and other factors, which may result in prices that are not aligned with the prevailing market prices when those market prices are depressed, or declining, as is currently the case. Currently, the price we pay for Russian LEU is above current market prices. The Russian Supply Agreement provides for reexamination of a key element of the pricing formula to account for significant increases or decreases in market prices. We expect this will result in a reduction in the price we would pay in future years, but there can be no assurance that an unexpected change will not occur that could lead to a different result. Other existing or new supply agreements may have pricing mechanisms that may not be aligned with market prices. The pricing mechanisms of our supply agreements may not align with pricing provided in our new or existing sales contracts and could result in sales prices that do not cover our purchase costs and may limit our ability to make new sales at prices that exceed the purchase price we pay for the LEU.. 14. Restrictions on imports or sales of  LEU or SWU that we buy could adversely affect  profitability and the viability of our business.. Our ability to place LEU we purchase into existing and future contracts with customers is subject to U.S. import limitations and, in some cases, the contracts' terms. Further, in the case of Russian LEU, sales of Russian LEU or SWU are more challenging than sales of non-Russian material. Some of our customers are unable or unwilling to accept Russian LEU. In addition, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits from the Russian Supply Agreement or other agreements to purchase LEU or SWU because of restrictions on U.S. imports of LEU and other uranium products from the country from which the LEU or SWU is sourced. For example, imports of LEU under the Russian Supply Agreement are subject to quotas imposed under legislation enacted into law in September 2008 and under the 1992 Russian Suspension Agreement, as amended in 2008. We are also dependent upon TENEX to grant us the right to use a portion of these quotas under the terms of the Russian Supply Agreement in order to import Russian LEU for sale in the United States.  Further, the U.S. quotas on imports of Russian LEU are subject to periodic review by the DOC, which may result in a decrease in availability of quotas to us, and even an extension of quotas to years in which they do not currently apply.  It also is possible that, in lieu of quotas, duties or other restrictions could be applied to imports of LEU or other uranium products. Quotas, duties and other restrictions could be applied through legislation or at the discretion of the President (for example, as a result of a request submitted under Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962). All such quotas, duties and restrictions could affect Centrus' sales of non-U.S. natural uranium or LEU containing non-U.S. uranium, which could adversely affect Centrus' revenues and financial results.. The LEU that we are committed to purchase and cannot sell for consumption in the United States will have to be sold for consumption by utilities outside the United States. Our ability to sell to those utilities may be limited by policies of foreign governments or regional institutions that seek to restrict the origin of LEU purchased by utilities under their jurisdiction. In addition, foreign utilities who take delivery of imported LEU from us in the United States may be unwilling to cooperate with us in meeting requirements under U.S. law that provide that the imported material be re-exported within a fixed period of time. Further, geopolitical events, including domestic or international reactions or responses to such events, as well as concerns about U.S. national security or other issues, could lead to U.S. or foreign government or international actions, including the imposition of sanctions, that could disrupt our ability to purchase, sell or make deliveries to customers of LEU or other uranium products from Russia or other countries.  Such an interruption could threaten our ability to fulfill our purchase commitments to our suppliers and our delivery commitments to customers, with adverse effects on our reputation, costs, results of operations, cash flows and long-term viability. Even in the absence of sanctions or other legal restrictions, customers may be unwilling to agree to purchase or amend contracts to permit delivery of foreign LEU. Accordingly, there is no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to sell or deliver, in or outside of the United States, the LEU we are obligated to purchase under the Russian Supply Agreement and other supply agreements. These restrictions could adversely impact our business and our profitability.. We face risks associated with reliance on third-party suppliers to meet customer commitments.. We rely on third-party suppliers to provide essential services to the Company, such as the storage and management of inventory, transportation and radiation protection. We face the risk that those service providers may not perform on time, with the desired quality or at all for a variety of reasons, many of which are outside our control. Alternative third-party suppliers may not be readily available or may be more costly.  As a result of such risks, we may be unable to meet our customer commitments, our costs could be higher than planned, and/or our relationship with customers could be negatively affected, all of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and prospects. Customers place great value in the reliability of their supply of fuel for their reactors. Failure to make a delivery could have an adverse effect on our ability to make new sales and could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and prospects.. 15. Periodically, events or issues arise that may affect the performance of our suppliers.  There can be no assurance that the steps we may take to address these events or issues will be successful in minimizing potential impacts to the Company and our customers.  Unless adequately addressed, such events or issues could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and prospects.. Dependence on our largest customers could adversely affect us.. In 2017, our ten largest nuclear fuel customers represented approximately 97% of total revenue and our four largest customers represented approximately 53% of total revenue. Further, individual orders average roughly $10 million to $15 million. A reduction in purchases from our customers, whether due to their decision not to purchase optional quantities or for other reasons, including a disruption or change in their operations or financial condition that reduces purchases of LEU from us, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and prospects.. We are seeing increased price competition as competitors and secondary suppliers lower their prices to sell excess supply created by current market conditions. This has adversely affected our sales efforts. Because price is a significant factor in a customer's choice of a LEU supplier, when contracts come up for renewal, customers may reduce their purchases from us if we are not able to compete on price, resulting in the loss of new sales contracts. Once lost, customers may be difficult to regain because they typically purchase LEU under long-term contracts. Therefore, given the need to maintain existing customer relationships, our ability to raise prices to respond to increases in costs or other developments may be limited. In addition, because we have a commitment to acquire LEU from third parties, any reduction in purchases by the customers below the level required for us to resell the material we are obligated to buy could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and prospects.. The dollar amount of the sales order book, as stated at any given time, is not necessarily indicative of future sales revenues and is subject to uncertainty.. Our order book of sales is the estimated aggregate dollar amount of SWU and uranium sales that we expect to recognize as revenue in future periods under existing contracts with customers. There is no assurance that the revenues projected will be realized, or, if realized, will result in profits. Most of our contracts provide for fixed purchases of SWU during a given year. Our estimate of the order book is partially based on customers' estimates of the timing and size of their fuel requirements and other assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. The order book is also based on estimates of selling prices, which are subject to change. For example, depending on the terms of specific contracts, prices may be adjusted based on escalation using a general inflation index, published SWU or uranium market price indicators prevailing at the time of delivery, and other factors, all of which are unpredictable, particularly in light of general uncertainty in the nuclear market. We use external composite forecasts of future market prices and inflation rates in our pricing estimates. These forecasts may not be accurate, and therefore estimates of future prices could be overstated. Any inaccuracy in estimates of future prices would add to the imprecision of the order book estimate.. For a variety of reasons, the amounts of SWU and uranium that we will sell in the future under existing contracts, and the timing of customer purchases under those contracts, may differ from estimates. Customers may not purchase as much as we predict, nor at the times we anticipate, as a result of operational or financial difficulties, changes in fuel requirements, reactor shutdowns, or other reasons. Reduced purchases would reduce the revenues we actually receive from contracts included in the order book. Customers could also seek to modify or cancel orders in response to concerns regarding our financial strength or future business prospects. Further, financial and operational issues, including possibility for bankruptcies, facing our customers could affect the order book.. The order book includes sales prices that are significantly above current market prices. Customers may seek to limit their obligations under these existing contracts or may be unwilling to continue contracts. Some long-term contracts in our order book were established with milestones related to the ACP that permit termination with respect to portions of the contract under limited circumstances. Further, some of our customers are facing financial difficulties and may seek modifications to their contracts or seek bankruptcy protection. We estimate that. 16. approximately 14% of our order book as of December 31, 2017, remains at risk due to milestones related to ACP deployment or due to customer financial conditions. From time to time, we have worked with customers to modify contracts that have delivery, scheduling, origin or other terms that may require modifications to address our anticipated supply sources. If we were to initiate such discussions in the future, we have no assurance that our customers would agree to revise existing contracts or would not seek to exercise contract termination rights or require concessions, which could adversely affect the value of our order book and our prospects.. Failures or security breaches of information technology (\"IT\") systems could have an adverse effect on our business.. Our business requires us to use and protect classified, sensitive and other protected information as well as business proprietary information and intellectual property. Our computer networks and other IT systems are designed to protect this information through the use of classified networks and other procedures. A material network breach in the security of the IT systems could include the theft of our business proprietary and intellectual property. To the extent any security breach results in a loss or damage to data, or in inappropriate disclosure of classified or other protected information, it could cause grave damage to the country's national security and to our business. One of the biggest threats to classified information we protect comes from the insider threat - an employee with legitimate access who engages in misconduct. Transitions in the business, in particular the potential for employee layoffs and other transitions, can increase the risk that an insider with access could steal our intellectual property.. Financial Risks. Financial risks relate to our financial condition, capital structure and ability to meet financial obligations and the price, volatility and ownership concentration of our Class A Common Stock.. We have significant long-term liabilities.. We continue to have significant long-term liabilities, including the indebtedness under the 8% PIK Toggle Notes due 2019, as well as our 8.25% Notes, which we issued on February 14, 2017. We also still have substantial pension and postretirement health and life benefit obligations and other long-term liabilities. In addition, the terms of the indenture governing our 8% PIK Toggle Notes and the indenture governing our 8.25% Notes will not restrict Centrus or any of its subsidiaries from incurring substantial additional indebtedness in the future.. Our significant long-term liabilities (and other third-party financial obligations) could have important consequences, including:. • the terms and conditions imposed by the documents governing our indebtedness could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations to lenders and other creditors, resulting in possible defaults on and acceleration of such indebtedness or breaches of such other commitments;. • we may be more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions and have less flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in the nuclear enrichment industry which could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to industry competitors that have less debt or comparable debt at more favorable interest rates and that, as a result, may be better positioned to withstand economic downturns;. • we may find it more difficult to obtain additional financing for future working capital, and other general corporate requirements; and. • we will be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash resources to payments on the 8% PIK Toggle Notes and 8.25% Notes thereby reducing the availability of our cash to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities.. 17. If we incur substantial additional indebtedness, the foregoing risks would intensify. Additional information concerning the 8% PIK Toggle Notes and 8.25% Notes including the terms and conditions of the 8% PIK Toggle Notes and 8.25% Notes are described in Note 9, Debt of the consolidated financial statements.. The Company has material unfunded defined benefit pension plans obligations and postretirement health and life benefit obligations. These liabilities are anticipated to require material contributions in future periods, which may divert funds from other uses and could adversely impact the Company's liquidity and prospects.. Centrus and its subsidiary, United States Enrichment Corporation (\"Enrichment Corp.\"), maintain qualified defined benefit pension plans that are guaranteed by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (\"PBGC\"), a wholly owned U.S. government corporation that was created by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (\"ERISA\"). Centrus also maintains non-qualified defined benefit pension plans for certain executive officers. Effective August 2013, accrued benefits under the defined benefit pension plans are fixed and no longer increase to reflect changes in compensation or company service. In addition, Enrichment Corp. maintains postretirement health and life benefit plans. The aforementioned pension and health and life benefit plans are closed to new participants. These plans are anticipated to require material cash contributions in the future, which may divert funds from other uses and could adversely impact our liquidity depending on the timing of any required contributions or payments in relation to our sources of cash and other payment obligations. See also the Risk Factor, Levels of returns on pension and postretirement benefit plan assets, changes in interest rates and other factors affecting the amounts to be contributed to fund future pension and postretirement benefit liabilities could adversely affect earnings and cash flows in future periods.. Levels of returns on pension and postretirement benefit plan assets, changes in interest rates and other factors affecting the amounts to be contributed to fund future pension and postretirement benefit liabilities could adversely affect earnings and cash flows in future periods.. Earnings may be positively or negatively impacted by the amount of expense we record for employee benefit plans. This is particularly true with expense for the pension and postretirement benefit plans. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (\"U.S. GAAP\") require a company to calculate expense for these plans using actuarial valuations. These valuations are based on assumptions relating to financial markets and other economic conditions. Changes in key economic indicators can result in changes in the assumptions used. The key year-end assumptions used to estimate pension and postretirement benefit expenses for the following year are the discount rate, the expected rate of return on plan assets and healthcare cost trend rates. The rate of return on pension assets and changes in interest rates affect funding requirements for defined benefit pension plans. The IRS and the Pension Protection Act of 2006 regulate the minimum amount we contribute to our pension plans. The amount required to contribute to pension plans can have an adverse effect on our cash flows.. Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flows.. Revenue is recognized at the time LEU or uranium is delivered under the terms of customer contracts. Customer demand is affected by, among other things, electricity markets, reactor operations, maintenance and the timing of refueling outages. Customer payments for the SWU component of LEU typically average roughly $10 million to $15 million per order. Further, some customers are facing challenging market and financial conditions including the possibility of seeking protection under bankruptcy laws. Accordingly, they may seek modification of or relief from their obligations either informally or under the bankruptcy laws. As a result, a relatively small change in the timing, amount or other terms of customer orders for LEU due to a change in a customer's refueling schedule or other reasons may cause operating results to be substantially above or below expectations, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flows.. 18. Results of operations could be negatively impacted if adverse conditions or changes in circumstances indicate a possible impairment loss related to our intangible assets.. Intangible assets originated from our reorganization and application of fresh start accounting as of September 30, 2014. The intangible assets represented the fair value adjustment to the assets and liabilities for our LEU segment. The intangible assets remaining on our balance sheet relate to our sales order book and customer relationships. The order book intangible asset is amortized to expense as the order book valued at emergence is reduced, principally as a result of deliveries to customers. The customer relationships intangible asset is amortized to expense using the straight-line method over the estimated average useful life of 15 years.. The carrying values of the intangible assets are subject to impairment tests whenever adverse conditions or changes in circumstances indicate a possible impairment loss. If impairment is indicated, the asset carrying value will be reduced to its fair value. Inherent in our fair value determinations are certain judgments and estimates, including projections of future cash flows, the discount rate reflecting the risk inherent in future cash flows, the interpretation of current economic indicators and market valuations, and strategic plans with regard to operations. A change in these underlying assumptions would cause a change in the results of the tests, which could cause the fair value of the intangible asset to be less than its respective carrying amount.. Centrus is dependent on intercompany support from Enrichment Corp.. Substantially all of our revenue-generating operations are conducted at our subsidiary, Enrichment Corp.  The financing obtained from Enrichment Corp. funds our general corporate expenses, including cash interest payments on the 8% PIK Toggle Notes and the 8.25% Notes, which are guaranteed on a limited and subordinated basis by Enrichment Corp. As a wholly owned subsidiary of Centrus, Enrichment Corp. has its own set of creditors and a separate board of directors, including independent directors (the \"Enrichment Board\"), who are elected by Centrus.  Current and future funding and support are conditional and dependent on Enrichment Corp.'s own financial condition and a determination by the Enrichment Board that such funding is in the interest of Enrichment Corp.. There is a limited trading market for our securities and the market price of our securities is subject to volatility.. The price of our Class A Common Stock remains subject to volatility. The market price and level of trading of our Class A Common Stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among other things, our limited trading history, our limited trading volume, the concentration of holdings of our Class A Common Stock, actual or anticipated variations in our operating results and cash flow, the nature and content of our earnings releases, announcements or events that impact our products, customers, competitors or markets, business conditions in our markets and the general state of the securities markets and the market for energy-related stocks, as well as general economic and market conditions and other factors that may affect our future results.. As described in Note 15, Stockholders' Equity to the consolidated financial statements, one of the Company's Class B stockholders sold a limited number of shares of Class B Common Stock to a third-party which resulted in the automatic conversion of the sold shares into Class A Common Stock. Our Class B stockholders may make decisions regarding their investment in the Company based upon factors that are unrelated to the Company's performance. Any further sales by such stockholder or a decision by the other Class B stockholder to sell shares would also result in automatic conversion (with limited exceptions) of Class B Common Stock into Class A Common Stock upon the sale of Class B Common Stock, which in turn could significantly adversely impact the trading price of the Class A Common Stock.. 19. Our 8% PIK Toggle Notes, the 8.25% Notes and the Series B Preferred Stock are not listed on any securities exchange. No assurance can be given as to the liquidity of the trading market for the 8% PIK Toggle Notes, the 8.25% Notes or the Series B Preferred Stock. The 8% PIK Toggle Notes, the 8.25% Notes and the Series B Preferred Stock may be traded only infrequently in transactions arranged through brokers or otherwise, and reliable market quotations for the 8% PIK Toggle Notes, the 8.25% Notes and the Series B Preferred Stock may not be available. In addition, the trading prices of the 8% PIK Toggle Notes, the 8.25% Notes and the Series B Preferred Stock will depend on many factors, including prevailing interest rates, the limited trading volume of the 8% PIK Toggle Notes, the 8.25% Notes and the Series B Preferred Stock, and the other factors discussed above with respect to the Class A Common Stock.. A small number of Class A stockholders may exert significant influence over the direction of the Company.. As of December 31, 2017, based solely on amounts reported in Schedule 13D and 13G filings with the SEC, two principal stockholders (those stockholders with beneficial ownership of more than 10% of our Class A Common Stock) collectively beneficially own approximately 31.2% of our Class A Common Stock. As a result, these stockholders may be able to exert significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger of the Company or sale of substantially all of the Company's assets. These stockholders may have interests that differ from and may vote in a way adverse to other holders of Class A Common Stock. This concentration of ownership may make it more difficult for other stockholders to effect substantial changes in the Company and may also have the effect of delaying, preventing or expediting, as the case may be, a change in control of the Company.. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income may be limited.. Our ability to fully utilize our existing net operating losses (\"NOLs\") or net unrealized built-in losses could be limited or eliminated in the event (i) we undergo an \"ownership change\" as described under Section 382 of the Code, (ii) we do not reach profitability or are only marginally profitable, or (iii) there are changes in federal laws and regulations. An \"ownership change\" is generally defined as a greater than 50% change in equity ownership by value over a rolling three-year period. Past or future ownership changes, some of which may be beyond our control, as well as differences and fluctuations in the value of our equity securities may adversely affect our ability to utilize our NOLs and could reduce our flexibility to raise capital in future equity financings or other transactions, or we may determine to pursue transactions even if they would result in an ownership change and impair our ability to use our NOLs.  In addition, the Section 382 Rights Agreement we have adopted with respect to our common stock and the transfer restrictions in the Series B Preferred Stock contain limitations on transferability intended to prevent the possibility of experiencing an \"ownership change,\" but we cannot assure you that these measures will be effective or we may determine to pursue transactions even if they would result in an ownership change and impair our ability to use our NOLs. In addition, any changes to tax rules and regulations or the interpretation of tax rules and regulations (including the recent tax legislation) could negatively impact our ability to recognize any potential benefits from our NOLs or net unrealized built-in losses.. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which could have, if it had not been remediated, resulted in material misstatements in our financial statements.. In 2016 in connection with management's evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, we determined that we did not design and maintain effective controls at an appropriate level of precision over the review of the spreadsheets used in the calculation of the decontamination and decommissioning (\"D&D\") obligation and the cost estimates supporting the calculation. This resulted in a material adjustment in the fourth quarter D&D obligation balance, which was recorded prior to the issuance of our consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2016.. 20. In 2017, management enhanced its review process of D&D costs incurred and projected costs remaining to complete the D&D work and formalized applicable procedures as remedial controls.  During the quarter ended December 31, 2017, we completed the testing and evaluation of the operating effectiveness of the controls, and concluded that the previously reported material weakness has been remediated as of December 31, 2017. For additional discussion see Part II, Item 9A, Controls and Procedures.. If additional material weaknesses in internal controls are discovered in the future, we may be unable to timely and accurately record, process, summarize and report our financial results. The occurrence of or failure to remediate a material weakness may adversely affect our reputation and business and the market price of shares of our Class A Common Stock.. Strategic Risks. Strategic risks relate to the Company's future business plans and strategies, including the risks associated with: the global macro environment in which we operate; the demand for our products and services, competitive threats and technology innovation.. Our future prospects are tied directly to the nuclear energy industry worldwide and the financial difficulties experienced by our customers could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Potential events that could affect either nuclear reactors under current or future contracts with us or the nuclear industry as a whole, include:. • accidents, terrorism or other incidents at nuclear facilities or involving shipments of nuclear materials;. • regulatory actions or changes in regulations by nuclear regulatory bodies;. • decisions by agencies, courts or other bodies under applicable trade laws;. • disruptions in other areas of the nuclear fuel cycle, such as uranium supplies or conversion;. • civic opposition to, or changes in government policies regarding, nuclear operations;. • business decisions concerning reactors or reactor operations;. • the financial condition of reactor owners and operations;. • the need for generating capacity; or. • consolidation within the electric power industry.. These events could adversely affect us to the extent they result in a reduction or elimination of customers' contractual requirements to purchase from us, the suspension or reduction of nuclear reactor operations, the reduction of supplies of raw materials, lower demand, burdensome regulation, disruptions of shipments or production, increased competition from third parties, increased costs or difficulties or increased liability for actual or threatened property damage or personal injury.. Additionally, some of our customers are facing financial difficulties that could affect their willingness or ability to make purchases. We are exposed to the risk of loss in the event of nonperformance or a default by one or more customers on a contract. A default by a customer on its remaining purchase obligations would cause us to lose the associated revenue and could result in an impairment loss related to the carrying value of one or both of our intangible assets.  A default by a customer on its payment obligations under a contract would result in a credit loss related to the amounts owed to us. A reduction in purchases from our customers could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and prospects.. We cannot provide any assurance that our customers will not default on their obligations to us or file for bankruptcy protection. If a customer files for bankruptcy protection, we likely would be unable to collect all, or even a significant portion, of amounts that are owed to us. A customer default and bankruptcy filing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows.. 21. The continued excess supply of LEU in the market could adversely affect our business, results of operations and prospects.. Approximately 60 reactors in Japan and Germany were taken offline following the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami that caused irreparable damage to four reactors in Fukushima, Japan. The events at Fukushima and its aftermath have negatively affected the balance of supply and demand. In addition, reactor operators face competition from low priced natural gas and other alternatives. As a result, since 2013, United States utilities have closed or have announced plans to close 14 reactors and additional reactors have been reported to be at risk of closure. These impacts could continue to grow depending on the length and severity of delays in the restart of reactors, the number of reactors closed or cancellations of deliveries. The longer that this demand is reduced or absent from the market, the greater the cumulative impact on the market. Market prices for our products are at their lowest levels in more than two decades and this trend could continue or worsen. Suppliers whose deliveries are cancelled or delayed due to shutdown reactors or delays in reactor refuelings have excess supply available to sell in the market. This has adversely affected our success in selling LEU. These events have created significant uncertainty and our business, results of operations, and prospects have been and could continue to be adversely affected.. We have long been a leading supplier of LEU to Japanese and U.S. utilities. To maintain our order book with Japanese and U.S. utilities, and other utilities customers, that do not currently need more fuel, we may need to restructure our contracts to give the customers greater flexibility to meet their obligations to us without a material loss in value to us. If deliveries under contracts included in our order book are significantly delayed, modified or canceled, because purchases are tied to requirements or because customers seek to limit their obligations under existing contracts, our revenues and earnings may be adversely impacted, with a corresponding impact on our financial condition and prospects.. In addition, China is emerging as a growing producer and has begun to supply limited quantities of LEU to foreign markets, which may further contribute to the excess supply of LEU in the market.. The ability to attract and retain key personnel is critical to the success of our business.. The success of our business depends on key executives, managers, scientists, engineers and other skilled personnel. The ability to attract and retain these key personnel may be difficult in light of the uncertainties currently facing the business and changes we may make to the organizational structure to adjust to changing circumstances. Changes in senior management could create uncertainty among our employees, customers and other third parties with which we do business. The inability to retain appropriately qualified and experienced senior executives could negatively affect our operations, strategic planning and performance.. We could further demobilize or terminate the American Centrifuge project in the future, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity and could trigger termination of the limited, conditional guaranty by Enrichment Corp. of the 8% PIK Toggle Notes.. As of December 31, 2017, we have substantially completed the D&D of the American Centrifuge demonstration cascade at our test facility in Piketon, Ohio. It is our intention to terminate the NRC license for the test facility in 2018. We will continue to incur costs in connection with the facility until the facility is returned to DOE when the lease expires in June 2019.  If costs to terminate the NRC license or maintain the facility are greater than our estimates, then such increased costs could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and liquidity.. 22. While we are working to obtain additional revenue sources to support and expand our technology capabilities, there can be no assurance that such efforts will succeed. Any further reduction in funding by DOE or failure to obtain other revenue to support our technology could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and liquidity, including, but not limited to:. • cause us to implement worker layoffs and potentially lose additional key skilled personnel, all of whom have security clearances, which could be difficult to rehire or replace, and incur severance and other termination costs; and. • cause us to terminate the remaining portions of the American Centrifuge project and result in the loss of technical capabilities and key resources that could be useful in deploying a future commercial enrichment plant using the American Centrifuge technology or other technologies or expanding into other areas of the nuclear industry.. Termination of the American Centrifuge project or termination of DOE funding of the project through the contract with UT-Battelle, as operator of ORNL for DOE, could trigger termination of the limited, conditional guaranty by Enrichment Corp. of the 8% PIK Toggle Notes (other than with respect to the unconditional interest claim) as provided in the indenture governing the 8% PIK Toggle Notes. DOE discontinued funding of the American Centrifuge demonstration cascade at Piketon in 2015. Funding for the American Centrifuge project is now limited to research and development work at our facilities in Oak Ridge, Tennessee. In the event government funding is further reduced, the American Centrifuge project may be subject to further demobilization, costs, delays and termination.. The potential for DOE to seek to terminate or exercise its remedies under the 2002 DOE-USEC Agreement and our other agreements with DOE, or to require modifications to such agreements that are adverse to our interests, may have adverse consequences on the Company.. The Company and DOE signed an agreement dated June 17, 2002, as amended (the \"2002 DOE-USEC Agreement\"), pursuant to which the parties made long-term commitments directed at resolving issues related to the stability and security of the domestic uranium enrichment industry. DOE consented to the assumption by the Company of the 2002 DOE-USEC Agreement and other agreements between the Company and DOE subject to an express reservation of all rights, remedies and defenses by DOE and the Company under those agreements as part of the Company's Chapter 11 bankruptcy process. The 2002 DOE-USEC Agreement requires the Company to develop, demonstrate and deploy advanced enrichment technology in accordance with milestones and provides for remedies in the event of a failure to meet a milestone under certain circumstances.. DOE has specific remedies under the 2002 DOE-USEC Agreement if we fail to meet a milestone that would adversely impact our ability to begin commercial operations of the American Centrifuge Plant on schedule, and such delay was within our control or was due to our fault or negligence or if we abandon or constructively abandon the commercial deployment of an advanced enrichment technology. These remedies include terminating the 2002 DOE-USEC Agreement, revoking our access to DOE's centrifuge technology that is required for the success of the American Centrifuge project, requiring us to transfer certain rights in the American Centrifuge technology and facilities to DOE, and requiring us to reimburse DOE for certain costs associated with the American Centrifuge project.. DOE may seek to exercise remedies under such agreements and there is no assurance that the parties will be able to reach agreement on appropriate modifications to the agreements in the future. Moreover, even if the parties reach agreement on modifications to such agreements, there is no assurance that such modifications will not impose material additional requirements, provide DOE with material additional rights or remedies or otherwise affect the overall economics of the American Centrifuge Plant and the ability to finance and successfully deploy the project. Any of these actions could have an adverse impact on our business and prospects.. 23. We also granted to DOE an irrevocable, non-exclusive right to use or permit third parties on behalf of DOE to use all centrifuge technology intellectual property (\"Centrifuge IP\") royalty free for U.S. government purposes (which includes national defense purposes, including providing nuclear material to operate commercial nuclear power reactors for tritium production). We also granted an irrevocable, non-exclusive license to DOE to use such Centrifuge IP developed at our expense for commercial purposes (including a right to sublicense), which may be exercised only if we miss any of the milestones under the 2002 DOE-USEC Agreement or if we (or our affiliate or entity acting through us) are no longer willing or able to proceed with, or have determined to abandon or have constructively abandoned, the commercial deployment of the centrifuge technology. Such a commercial purposes license is subject to payment of an agreed upon royalty to us, which will not exceed $665 million in the aggregate. Any of these actions could have an adverse impact on our business and prospects.. We face significant competition from three major producers who may be less cost sensitive or may be favored due to national loyalties.. We compete with three major producers of LEU, all of which are wholly or substantially owned by governments: Orano (France), Rosatom/TENEX (Russia) and Urenco (the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and two German utilities). Our competitors have greater financial resources than we do. Foreign competitors enjoy support from their government owners, which may enable them to be less cost- or profit-sensitive than we are. In addition, decisions by foreign competitors may be influenced by political and economic policy considerations rather than commercial considerations. For example, foreign competitors may elect to increase their production or exports of LEU, even when not justified by market conditions, thereby depressing prices and reducing demand for LEU, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and prospects. Similarly, the elimination or weakening of existing restrictions on imports from foreign competitors could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and prospects. Moreover, our competitors may be better positioned to take advantage of improved market conditions and increase capacity to meet any future market expansion.. The ability to compete in certain foreign markets may be limited for political, legal and economic reasons.. Agreements for cooperation between the United States government and various foreign governments or governmental agencies control the export of nuclear materials from the United States. If any of the agreements governing exports to countries in which customers are located were to lapse, terminate or be amended, it is possible our sales could be curtailed or terminated or LEU could no longer be delivered to customers in those countries. This could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and prospects.. Purchases of LEU by customers in the European Union are subject to a policy of the Euratom Supply Agency that seeks to limit foreign enriched uranium to no more than 20% of European Union consumption per year. Application of this policy to consumption in the European Union of the LEU that we supply or purchase can significantly limit our ability to make sales to European customers. Additionally, any decision by the United Kingdom to withdraw from the Euratom Supply Agency as a result of its decision to exit the European Union may have an impact on the nuclear industry.. Further, geopolitical events, including domestic or international reactions or responses to such events and subsequent government or international actions including the imposition of sanctions, could also impact our ability to purchase, sell or make deliveries of LEU to customers.. Certain emerging markets lack a comprehensive nuclear liability law that protects suppliers by channeling liability for injury and property damage suffered by third persons from nuclear incidents at a nuclear facility to the facility's operator. To the extent a country does not have such a law and has not otherwise provided nuclear liability protection for suppliers to the projects to which we supply SWU, we intend to negotiate terms in customer contracts that we believe will adequately protect us in a manner consistent with this channeling principle. However, if a customer is unwilling to agree to such contract terms, the lack of clear protection for suppliers in the national laws of these countries could adversely affect our ability to compete for sales to meet the growing demand for LEU in these markets and our prospects for future revenue from such sales.. 24. Changes to, or termination of, any agreements with the U.S. government, or deterioration in our relationship with the U.S. government, could adversely affect results of operations.. We are a party to a number of agreements and arrangements with the U.S. government that are important to the business, including:. • leases for the centrifuge facilities;. • the 2002 DOE-USEC Agreement and other agreements that address issues relating to the domestic uranium enrichment industry and centrifuge technology; and. • the contract with UT-Battelle, as operator of ORNL for DOE, to conduct research and development of our advanced centrifuge technology for the U.S. government.. Termination, expiration or failure to obtain one or more of these agreements, without replacement with an equivalent agreement or arrangement that accomplishes the same objectives as such agreement(s), could adversely affect our business and prospects. In addition, deterioration in our relationship with the U.S. agencies that are parties to these agreements could impair or impede our ability to successfully implement these agreements, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our success depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing competitive environment in the nuclear industry.. The nuclear industry in general, and the nuclear fuel industry in particular, is in a period of significant change, which could significantly transform the competitive landscape we face. The nuclear fuel cycle industry remains oversupplied, creating downward pressures on commodity pricing, with uncertainty regarding the timing of industry expansion globally.  Changes in the competitive landscape may adversely affect pricing trends, change customer spending patterns, or create uncertainty. To address these changes, we may seek to adjust our cost structure and operations and evaluate opportunities to grow our business organically or through acquisitions and other strategic transactions. We are actively considering, and expect to consider from time to time in the future, potential strategic transactions, which could involve, without limitation, acquisitions and/or dispositions of businesses or assets, joint ventures or investments in businesses, products or technologies.  In connection with any such transaction, we may seek additional debt or equity financing, contribute or dispose of assets, assume additional indebtedness, or partner with other parties to consummate a transaction. Any such transaction may not result in the intended benefits and could involve significant commitments of our financial and other resources. If the actions we take in response to industry changes are not successful, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.. Legal and Compliance Risks. Legal and compliance risks relate to risks arising from the government and regulatory environment and action; legal proceedings and compliance with integrity policies and procedures, including those relating to financial reporting and environmental health and safety. Government and regulatory risk includes the risk that the government or regulatory actions will impose additional cost on us or cause us to have to change our business models or practices.. Our operations are highly regulated by the NRC and DOE.. Our operations are subject to regulation by the NRC. The NRC has granted two licenses for the Piketon facility, i.e. a license for the test facility was granted in February 2004 and a separate license to construct and operate a commercial plant was granted in April 2007.  It is our intention to terminate the NRC license for the test facility in 2018.  The NRC could refuse to terminate the license if we have failed to meet the conditions for termination.. 25. The NRC also could refuse to renew our license to construct and operate a commercial plant if it determines that: (1) we are foreign owned, controlled or dominated; (2) the issuance of a renewed license would be inimical to the maintenance of a reliable and economic domestic source of enrichment; (3) the issuance of a renewed license would be adverse to U.S. defense or security objectives; or (4) the issuance of a renewed license is otherwise not consistent with applicable laws or regulations in effect at the time of renewal.. The NRC has the authority to issue notices of violation for violations of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (the \"Atomic Energy Act\"), the NRC regulations and conditions of licenses, certificates of compliance, or orders. The NRC has the authority to impose civil penalties or additional requirements and to order cessation of operations for violations of its regulations. Penalties under the NRC regulations could include substantial fines, imposition of additional requirements or withdrawal or suspension of licenses or certificates. Any penalties imposed on us could adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity. The NRC also has the authority to issue new regulatory requirements or to change existing requirements. Changes to the regulatory requirements could also adversely affect our results of operations.. In addition, the centrifuge technology development and manufacturing facilities in Oak Ridge, and certain operations at our other facilities, are subject to regulation by DOE.  DOE has the authority to impose civil penalties and additional requirements, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our operations involve the use, transportation and disposal of toxic, hazardous and/or radioactive materials and could result in liability without regard to fault or negligence.. Our operations involve the use of toxic, hazardous and radioactive materials. A release of these materials could pose a health risk to humans or animals. If an accident were to occur, its severity would depend on the volume of the release and the speed of corrective action taken by plant emergency response personnel, as well as other factors beyond our control, such as weather and wind conditions. Actions taken in response to an actual or suspected release of these materials, including a precautionary evacuation, could result in significant costs for which we could be legally responsible. In addition to health risks, a release of these materials may cause damage to, or the loss of, property and may adversely affect property values.. We lease facilities from DOE at the centrifuge test facilities in Piketon, Ohio and Oak Ridge, Tennessee. Pursuant to the Price-Anderson Act, DOE has indemnified the Company against claims for public liability (as defined in the Atomic Energy Act) arising out of or in connection with activities under those leases resulting from a nuclear incident or precautionary evacuation. If an incident or evacuation is not covered under DOE indemnification, we could be financially liable for damages arising from such incident or evacuation, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The DOE indemnification does not apply to incidents outside the United States, including in connection with international transportation of LEU.. While DOE has provided indemnification pursuant to the Price-Anderson Act, there could be delays in obtaining reimbursement for costs from DOE and DOE may determine that some or all costs are not reimbursable under the indemnification. In addition, the Price-Anderson Act indemnification does not cover loss or damage to property located on the leased facilities due to a nuclear incident.. In our contracts, we seek to protect ourselves from liability, but there is no assurance that such contractual limitations on liability will be effective in all cases. The costs of defending against a claim arising out of a nuclear incident or precautionary evacuation, and any damages awarded as a result of such a claim, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. 26. Our failure to maintain compliance with the listing requirements of the NYSE American could result in a delisting of our Class A Common Stock and would impair stockholders' ability to sell or purchase our Class A Common Stock.. On November 17, 2015, we received notice from the NYSE American indicating that the Company was not in compliance with Sections 1003(a)(i) and (ii) of the NYSE American's Company Guide since it reported a stockholders' deficit as of September 30, 2015, and net losses in its fiscal years ended December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013. On April 28, 2017, the NYSE American informed Centrus that it had regained compliance with the NYSE American's continued listing standards because it had resolved the continued listing deficiency. In accordance with NYSE American regulations, Centrus will be subject to a 12-month follow-up review period to ensure that the Company does not fall below any of the NYSE American's continued listing standards. If the Company falls below any of the NYSE American's continued listing standards during the 12-month follow-up review period or further in the future, the NYSE American may initiate delisting procedures as appropriate. A delisting of our Class A Common Stock by the NYSE American and the failure of our Class A Common Stock to be listed on another national exchange could have significant adverse consequences. A delisting would likely have a negative effect on the price of our Class A Common Stock and would impair stockholders' ability to sell or purchase our Class A Common Stock. A delisting could also affect our access to capital resources.. Our certificate of incorporation gives us certain rights with respect to equity securities held (beneficially or of record) by foreign persons. If levels of foreign ownership set forth in our certificate of incorporation are exceeded, we have the right, among other things, to redeem or exchange common stock held by foreign persons, and in certain cases, the applicable redemption price or exchange value may be equal to the lower of fair market value or a foreign person's purchase price.. Our certificate of incorporation gives us certain rights with respect to shares of our common stock held (beneficially or of record) by foreign persons. Foreign persons are defined in our certificate of incorporation to include, among others, an individual who is not a U.S. citizen, an entity that is organized under the laws of a non-U.S. jurisdiction and an entity that is controlled by individuals who are not U.S. citizens or by entities that are organized under the laws of non-U.S. jurisdictions.. The occurrence of any one or more of the following events is a \"foreign ownership review event\" and triggers the board of directors' right to take various actions under our certificate of incorporation: (1) the beneficial ownership by a foreign person of (a) 5% or more of the issued and outstanding shares of any class of our equity securities, (b) 5% or more in voting power of the issued and outstanding shares of all classes of our equity securities, or (c) less than 5% of the issued and outstanding shares of any class of our equity securities or less than 5% of the voting power of the issued and outstanding shares of all classes of our equity securities, if such foreign person is entitled to control the appointment and tenure of any of our management positions or any director; (2) the beneficial ownership of any shares of any class of our equity securities by or for the account of a foreign uranium enrichment provider or a foreign competitor (defined in our certificate of incorporation as a \"Contravening Person\"); or (3) any ownership of, or exercise of rights with respect to, shares of any class of our equity securities or other exercise or attempt to exercise control of us that is inconsistent with, or in violation of, any regulatory restrictions, or that could jeopardize the continued operations of our facilities (defined in our certificate of incorporation as an \"Adverse Regulatory Occurrence\").  These rights include requesting information from holders (or proposed holders) of our securities, refusing to permit the transfer of securities by such holders, suspending or limiting voting rights of such holders, redeeming or exchanging shares of our stock owned by such holders on terms set forth in our certificate of incorporation, and taking other actions that we deem necessary or appropriate to ensure compliance with the foreign ownership restrictions.. 27. The terms and conditions of our rights with respect to our redemption or exchange right in respect of shares held by foreign persons or Contravening Persons are as follows:. • Redemption price or exchange value:  Generally, the redemption price or exchange value for any shares of our common stock redeemed or exchanged would be their fair market value. However, if we redeem or exchange shares held by foreign persons or Contravening Persons and our Board in good faith determines that such person knew or should have known that its ownership would constitute a foreign ownership review event (other than shares for which our Board determined at the time of the person's purchase that the ownership of, or exercise of rights with respect to, such shares did not at such time constitute an Adverse Regulatory Occurrence), the redemption price or exchange value is required to be the lesser of fair market value and the person's purchase price for the shares redeemed or exchanged.. • Form of payment:  Cash, securities or a combination, valued by our board of directors in good faith.. • Notice:  At least 30 days written notice of redemption is required; however, if we have deposited the cash or securities for the redemption or exchange in trust for the benefit of the relevant holders, we may redeem shares held by such holders on the same day that we provide notice.. Accordingly, there are situations in which a foreign stockholder or Contravening Person could lose the right to vote its shares or in which we may redeem or exchange shares held by a foreign person or Contravening Person and in which such redemption or exchange could be at the lesser of fair market value and the person's purchase price for the shares redeemed or exchanged, which could result in a significant loss for that person.. The terms of our outstanding 8% PIK Toggle Notes, 8.25% Notes and Series B Preferred Stock contain restrictions on our ability to pay dividends on our Class A Common Stock.. Our Series B Preferred Stock provides that we may not pay dividends on our Class A Common Stock (other than dividends payable in shares of Class A Common Stock) so long as any share of our Series B Preferred Stock are outstanding. Although we may redeem or repurchase our Series B Preferred Stock, we currently have no plans to do so and we cannot assure you that we would redeem or repurchase our Series B Preferred Stock in the future. In addition, the indentures governing our 8% PIK Toggle Notes and 8.25% Notes, subject to certain exceptions, place certain restrictions on the ability of our subsidiary, Enrichment Corp. to transfer cash and other assets to us. This could act as an additional constraint on our ability to pay dividends on our Class A Common Stock.. Anti-takeover provisions could delay or prevent an acquisition of us.. We are a Delaware corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third-party to acquire control of our company, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing shareholders. In particular, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or DGCL, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in a broad range of business combinations with any \"interested\" stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder becomes an \"interested\" stockholder. Our certificate of incorporation, or charter, establishes restrictions on foreign ownership of our securities. Other provisions of our charter and bylaws may make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire control of us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include:. • authorizing \"blank check\" preferred stock that our board of directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares to discourage a takeover attempt;. • not providing for cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates;. • limiting the ability of stockholders to call a special stockholder meeting;. • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and. • providing that our board of directors is expressly authorized to amend, alter, rescind or repeal our by-laws.. 28. These various restrictions could deprive shareholders of the opportunity to realize takeover premiums for their shares.. Also, in April 2016, we adopted a Section 382 Shareholder Rights Agreement (the \"Rights Agreement\") in an effort to protect shareholder value by, among other things, attempting to protect against a possible limitation on our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and other tax benefits, which may be used to reduce potential future income tax obligations. Pursuant to the terms of the Rights Plan, if certain persons or groups acquire more than a certain amount of the outstanding shares of our Class A common stock, then, subject to certain exceptions, the Rights Plan would be triggered.. In addition, the indenture governing our 8% PIK Toggle Notes and the indenture governing our 8.25% Notes include restrictions on our ability to engage in certain mergers or acquisitions. The indentures governing our 8% PIK Toggle Notes and our 8.25% Notes also require us to offer to repurchase all such outstanding notes at 101% of their outstanding principal amount in the event of certain change of control events.. These and other provisions could prevent, deter, or make it more difficult for a third party from acquiring us even where the acquisition could be beneficial to stockholders.. 29"
