[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. The following are certain risk factors that could impact our business, financial results and results of operations.  Investing in our common stock involves risks, including those described below.  These risk factors should be considered by prospective and current investors in our common stock when evaluating the disclosures contained in this Form 10-K and in other reports that we file with the SEC. These risk factors could cause actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements.  If any of the events described in the following risk factors actually occur, or if additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we believe are immaterial do materialize, then our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely impacted.  In addition, the trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of the events described in these risk factors.. Changes in economic and political conditions could adversely affect our earnings through declines in deposits, loan demand, the ability of our customers to repay loans and the value of the collateral securing our loans.. Our success depends to a significant extent upon local and national economic and political conditions, as well as governmental fiscal and monetary policies.  Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, money supply and other factors beyond our control can adversely affect our asset quality, deposit levels and loan demand and, therefore, our earnings and our capital.  The election of a new United States President in 2016 has resulted in substantial changes in economic and political conditions for the United States and the rest of the world.  Economic turmoil in Europe and Asia and changes in oil production in the Middle East affect the economy and stock prices in the United States, which can affect our earnings and capital and the ability of our customers to repay loans.  Because we have a significant amount of real estate loans, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure.  Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings and cash flows.  Moreover, our market activities are concentrated in the following Ohio counties:  Franklin County, and contiguous counties through our office in Worthington, Ohio, Cuyahoga County, and contiguous counties through our agency office in Woodmere, Ohio, Hamilton County, and contiguous counties through our office in Glendale, Ohio, Summit County, and contiguous counties through our office in Fairlawn, Ohio; Columbiana County, and contiguous counties through our offices in Wellsville and Calcutta, Ohio.   Our success depends on the general economic conditions of these areas, particularly given that a significant portion of our lending relates to real estate located in these regions.  Therefore, adverse changes in the economic conditions in these areas could adversely impact our earnings and cash flows.. 31. Table of Contents. We may not be able to effectively manage our growth.. We have experienced significant growth in the amount of our total loans in the past several years.  Since January 1, 2014, our total net loans have grown by $200.5 million, or 94.2%, and our total assets have grown by $225.7 million, or 88.2%.  Our continued growth may place significant demands on our operations and management, and our future operating results depend to a large extent on our ability to successfully manage our growth.  We may not successfully implement improvements to, or integrate, our management information and control systems, procedures and processes in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls.  In particular, our controls and procedures must be able to accommodate increases in our loan volume and our growth and expansion.  If we are unable to manage our loan growth and/or expanded operations, we may experience compliance and operational problems, have to slow the pace of growth, or have to incur additional expenditures beyond current projections to support such growth, any one of which could materially and adversely affect us.. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses.  Higher loan losses could require us to increase our allowance for loan losses through a charge to earnings.. When we loan money we incur the risk that our borrowers will not repay their loans.  We reserve for loan losses by establishing an allowance through a charge to earnings.  The amount of this allowance is based on our assessment of probable incurred credit losses in our loan portfolio.  The process for determining the amount of the allowance is critical to our financial condition and results of operations.  It requires subjective and complex judgments about the future, including forecasts of economic or market conditions that might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans.  It also requires that we make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans.  The allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable losses in our loan portfolio.  We might underestimate the loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have loan losses in excess of the amount reserved.  We might increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions.  For example, when real estate values decline, the potential severity of loss on a real estate-secured loan can increase significantly, especially in the case of loans with high loan-to-value ratios.  The lingering nature of the decline in the national economy and the local economies of the areas in which our loans are concentrated could result in an increase in loan delinquencies, foreclosures or repossessions resulting in increased charge-off amounts and the need for additional loan loss allowances in future periods.  In addition, our determination as to the amount of our allowance for loan losses is subject to review by our regulators as part of their examination process, which may result in the establishment of an additional allowance based upon the judgment of the regulators after a review of the information available at the time of their examination.  The additions to our allowance for loan losses would be made through increased provisions for loan losses, which would reduce our income and could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, earnings and profitability.. We may make, or be required to make, further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. As a result of changes in balances and composition of the loan portfolio, changes in economic and market conditions that occur from time to time and other factors specific to a borrower's circumstances, the level of nonperforming assets will fluctuate.  If housing and real estate markets resume decline, we may experience increased delinquencies and credit losses.  An increase in our nonperforming assets, credit losses or our provision for loan losses would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our emphasis on commercial, commercial real estate and multi-family residential real estate lending may expose us to increased lending risks.. Because payments on commercial loans are dependent on successful operation of the borrowers' business enterprises, repayment of such loans may be subject to a greater extent to adverse conditions in the economy.  Because payments on loans secured by commercial real estate properties are dependent on successful operation or management of the properties, repayment of commercial real estate loans may be subject to a greater extent to adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy.  Commercial real estate and multi-family residential mortgage loans also have larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to single-family residential mortgage loans.  Some of our borrowers also have more than one commercial real estate or multi-family residential mortgage loan outstanding with us.  Additionally, some loans may be collateralized by junior liens.  Consequently, an adverse development involving one or more loans or credit relationships can expose us to significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development involving a single-family residential mortgage loan.. Our adjustable-rate loans may expose us to increased lending risks.. While adjustable-rate loans better offset the adverse effects of an increase in interest rates as compared to fixed-rate loans, the increased payments required of adjustable-rate loan borrowers upon an interest rate adjustment in a rising interest rate environment could cause an increase in delinquencies and defaults.  The marketability of the underlying property also may be adversely affected in a rising interest rate environment.  In addition, although adjustable-rate loans help make our asset base more responsive to changes in interest rates, the extent of this interest sensitivity is limited by the annual and lifetime interest rate adjustment limits.. 32. Table of Contents. We are a holding company and depend on our subsidiary bank for dividends.. The Holding Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries and affiliates.  The Holding Company's principal source of funds to support its operations, pay dividends on its common shares and service its debt is dividends from CFBank.  In the event that CFBank is unable to pay dividends to the Holding Company, the Holding Company may not be able to service its debt, pay its other obligations or pay dividends on its outstanding stock.  Accordingly, the Holding Company's inability to receive dividends from CFBank could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Various federal and state statutory provisions and regulations limit the amount of dividends that CFBank may pay to the Holding Company without regulatory approval.  Under these laws and regulations, the amount of dividends that may be paid by CFBank in any calendar year is generally limited to the current year's net profits, combined with the retained net profits of the preceding two years.  In addition, the FRB has issued policy statements that provide that insured banks and bank and savings holding companies should generally only pay dividends out of current operating earnings.  Thus, the ability of CFBank to pay dividends in the future is currently influenced, and could be further influenced, by bank regulatory policies and capital guidelines and may restrict the Holding Company's ability to declare and pay dividends on its common shares.  The ability of CFBank and any other subsidiaries to pay dividends to the Holding Company is also subject to their profitability, financial condition, capital expenditures and other cash flow requirements and contractual obligations.    There can be no guaranty that CFBank will be able or permitted to pay dividends to the Holding Company in the future, and any such future dividends by CFBank would be based on future earnings and, if necessary, regulatory approval.. Deposit insurance premiums may increase and have a negative effect on our results of operations.. The Deposit Insurance Fund (the \"DIF\") maintained by the FDIC to resolve bank failures is funded by fees assessed on insured depository institutions.  The costs of resolving bank failures increased for a period of time and decreased the DIF.  The FDIC collected a special assessment in 2009 to replenish the DIF and also required a prepayment of an estimated amount of future deposit insurance premiums.  If the costs of future bank failures increase, the deposit insurance premiums required to be paid by CFBank may also increase.  The FDIC recently adopted rules revising its assessments in a manner benefitting banks, such as CFBank, with assets totaling less than $10 billion.  There can be no assurance, however, that assessments will not be changed in the future.. Changing interest rates may decrease our earnings and asset values.. Management is unable to accurately predict future market interest rates, which are affected by many factors, including, but not limited to inflation, recession, changes in employment levels, changes in the money supply and domestic and international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets.  Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce our profits.  Net interest income is a significant component of our net income, and consists of the difference, or spread, between interest income generated on interest-earning assets and interest expense incurred on interest-bearing liabilities.  Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities.  Although certain interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities may have similar maturities or periods to which they reprice, they may react in different degrees to changes in market interest rates.  In addition, residential mortgage loan origination volumes and refinancing are affected by market interest rates on loans.  Rising interest rates generally are associated with a lower volume of loan originations and refinancings, while falling interest rates are usually associated with higher loan originations and refinancings.  Our ability to generate gains on sales of mortgage loans is significantly dependent on the level of originations.  Cash flows are affected by changes in market interest rates.  Generally, in rising interest rate environments, loan prepayment rates are likely to decline, and in falling interest rate environments, loan prepayment rates are likely to increase.  A majority of our commercial, commercial real estate and multi-family residential real estate loans are adjustable rate loans and an increase in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect the ability of some borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations, especially borrowers with loans that have adjustable rates of interest.  Changes in interest rates, prepayment speeds and other factors may also cause the value of our loans held for sale to change.  Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, loan volume, asset quality, value of loans held for sale and cash flows, as well as the market value of our securities portfolio and overall profitability.. Adverse changes in the financial markets may adversely impact our results of operations.. While we generally invest in securities issued by U.S. government agencies and sponsored entities and U.S. state and local governments with limited credit risk, certain investment securities we hold possess higher credit risk since they represent beneficial interests in structured investments collateralized by residential mortgages, debt obligations and other similar asset-backed assets.  Even securities issued by governmental agencies and entities may entail risk depending on political and economic changes.  Regardless of the level of credit risk, all investment securities are subject to changes in market value due to changing interest rates, implied credit spreads and credit ratings.. 33. Table of Contents. Legislative or regulatory changes or actions could adversely impact our business.. The financial services industry is extensively regulated.  We are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of our operations.  These laws and regulations are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors, borrowers and the deposit insurance fund, not to benefit our shareholders.  Changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory agencies may negatively impact us, possibly limiting the services we provide, increasing the ability of non-banks to compete with us or requiring us to change the way we operate.  Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on the operation of an institution and the ability to determine the adequacy of an institution's allowance for loan losses.  Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and policies could result in sanctions being imposed by the regulatory agencies, including the imposition of civil money penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Even the reduction of regulatory restrictions could have an adverse effect on us if such lessening of restrictions increases competition within our industry or market areas.. In light of conditions in the global financial markets and the global economy that occurred in the last decade, regulators increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry.  In the last several years, Congress and the federal bank regulators have acted on an unprecedented scale in responding to the stresses experienced in the global financial markets.  Some of the laws enacted by Congress and regulations promulgated by federal bank regulators subject us and other financial institutions to additional restrictions, oversight and costs that may have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations.  In addition to laws, regulations and supervisory and enforcement actions directed at the operations of banks, proposals to reform the housing finance market contemplate winding down Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which could negatively affect our sales of loans.. In July 2013, the Holding Company's primary federal regulator, the FRB, published final rules (the \"Basel III Capital Rules\") establishing a new comprehensive capital framework for U.S. banking organizations.  The rules implement the Basel Committee's December 2010 framework known as \"Basel III\" for strengthening international capital standards as well as certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act.  The implementation of the Basel III Capital Rules result in higher capital requirements and more restrictive leverage and liquidity ratios than those previously in place.  In addition, in order to avoid limitations on capital distributions, such as dividend payments and certain bonus payments to executive officers, the Basel III Capital Rules require insured financial institutions to hold a capital conservation buffer of common equity tier 1 capital above the minimum risk-based capital requirements.  The capital conservation buffer will be phased in over time, becoming fully effective on January 1, 2019, and will consist of an additional amount of common equity equal to 2.5% of risk-weighted assets.  The Basel III Capital Rules revised the regulatory agencies' prompt corrective action framework by incorporating the new regulatory capital minimums and updating the definition of common equity.  The Basel III Capital Rules became effective for the Company on January 1, 2015, and will be fully phased in by January 1, 2019.  Although the implementation of Basel III, once fully phased in, is not expected to have a material impact on our capital ratios, any future changes to capital requirements could have such an effect.. We face strong competition from other financial institutions, financial services companies and other organizations offering services similar to those offered by us, which could result in our not being able to sustain or grow our loan and deposit businesses.. We conduct our business operations primarily in Franklin, Cuyahoga, Hamilton, Summit, and Columbiana Counties, Ohio, and make loans generally throughout Ohio.  Increased competition within these markets may result in reduced loan originations and deposits.  Ultimately, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors.  Many competitors offer the types of loans and banking services that we offer.  These competitors include other savings associations, community banks, regional banks and money center banks.  We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries.  Our competitors with greater resources may have a marketplace advantage enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns.. Additionally, financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions and banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the credit needs of larger clients.  These institutions, particularly to the extent they are more diversified than we are, may be able to offer the same loan products and services that we offer at more competitive rates and prices.  If we are unable to attract and retain banking clients, we may be unable to sustain current loan and deposit levels or increase our loan and deposit levels, and our business, financial condition and future prospects may be negatively affected.. Provisions in the Holding Company's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and statutory provisions could discourage a hostile acquisition of control.. The Holding Company's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation contains certain provisions that could discourage non-negotiated takeover attempts that certain stockholders might deem to be in their interests or through which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then current market price and that may tend to perpetuate existing management.. 34. Table of Contents. The Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation restricts the ability of an acquirer to vote more than 10% of our outstanding common stock.  The provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation also include: the classification of the terms of the members of the board of directors; supermajority provisions for the approval of certain business combinations; elimination of cumulative voting by stockholders in the election of directors; certain provisions relating to meetings of stockholders; and provisions allowing the board of directors to consider nonmonetary factors in evaluating a business combination or a tender or exchange offer.  The provisions in the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation requiring a supermajority vote for the approval of certain business combinations and containing restrictions on acquisitions of the Company's equity securities provide that the supermajority voting requirements or acquisition restrictions do not apply to business combinations or acquisitions meeting specified board of directors' approval requirements.. The Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation also authorizes the issuance of 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, as well as 50,000,000 shares of common stock. These shares could be issued without further stockholder approval on terms or in circumstances that could deter a future takeover attempt.. Additionally, federal banking laws contain various restrictions on acquisitions of control of national banks and their holding companies.. The Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as well as certain provisions of state and federal law, may have the effect of discouraging or preventing a future takeover attempt in which stockholders of the Company otherwise might receive a substantial premium for their shares over then current market prices.. We may elect or need to raise additional capital in the future, but capital may not be available when it is needed.. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations.  In addition, federal banking agencies have recently finalized extensive changes to their capital requirements, including the adoption of the Basel III Capital Rules as discussed above, which result in higher capital requirements and more restrictive leverage and liquidity ratios than those previously in place.  The final impact on us is unknown at this time, but may require us to raise additional capital in the future.  Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and are based on our financial performance.  Accordingly, we cannot be assured of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us.  If we cannot raise additional capital when needed or on acceptable terms, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. We rely heavily on our management team, and the unexpected loss of key management may adversely affect our operations.. Our current management team was put in place following the completion of the Company's common stock offering in August 2012.  Our performance since August 2012 has been strongly influenced by our ability to attract and to retain senior management experienced in banking in the markets we serve.  Our ability to retain executive officers and the current management team will continue to be important to successful implementation of our strategies.  The unexpected loss of services of any key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results.. Changes in tax laws could adversely affect our performance.. We are subject to extensive federal, state and local taxes, including income, excise, sales/use, payroll, franchise, financial institutions tax, withholding and ad valorem taxes.  Changes to our taxes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  In addition, our customers are subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local taxes.  Changes in taxes paid by our customers may adversely affect their ability to purchase homes or consumer products, which could adversely affect their demand for our loans and deposit products.  In addition, such negative effects on our customers could result in defaults on the loans we have made and decrease the value of mortgage-backed securities in which we have invested.. On December 22, 2017, H.R.1, formally known as the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,\" was enacted into law.  This new tax legislation, among other changes, limits the amount of state, federal and local taxes that taxpayers are permitted to deduct on their individual tax returns and eliminates other deductions in their entirety.  Such limits and eliminations could result in customer defaults on loans we have made and decrease the value of mortgage-backed securities in which we have invested.. We need to constantly update our technology in order to compete and meet customer demands.. The financial services market, including banking services, is undergoing rapid changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services.  In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and may enable us to reduce costs.  Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to use current technology to provide products and services that provide convenience to customers and to create additional efficiencies in our operations.  Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements.  We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers.. 35. Table of Contents. We are exposed to cyber-security risks, including hacking and identity theft.. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. A failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in disruptions to our accounting, deposit, loan and other systems, and could adversely affect our customer relationships. While we have implemented policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of these possible events, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if any does occur, that it can be sufficiently remediated.. There have been increasing efforts on the part of third parties, including through cyber attacks, to breach data security at financial institutions or with respect to financial transactions. There have been several recent instances involving financial services and consumer-based companies reporting the unauthorized disclosure of client or customer information or the destruction or theft of corporate data, by both private individuals and foreign governments.  In addition, because the techniques used to cause such security breaches change frequently, often are not recognized until launched against a target and may originate from less regulated and remote areas around the world, we may be unable to proactively address these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures.. Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and we may not be able to anticipate or prevent all such attacks.  We may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize these risks or in the investigation of such cyber-attacks or related to the protection of our customers from identity theft as a result of such attacks.  Nevertheless, the occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our systems, or of our third-party service providers, particularly if widespread or resulting in financial losses to customers, could also seriously damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject it to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose it to civil litigation and financial liability.. We depend upon the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties.. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information provided to us by customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors.  For example, in deciding whether to extend credit to a business, we may assume that the customer's audited financial statements conform with GAAP and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. We may also rely on the audit report covering those financial statements. Our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted to the extent that we rely on financial statements that do not comply with GAAP or on financial statements and other financial information that are materially misleading.. We may be the subject of litigation which could result in legal liability and damage to our business and reputation.. From time to time, we may be subject to claims or legal action from customers, employees or others.  Financial institutions like the Company and CFBank are facing a growing number of significant class actions, including those based on the manner of calculation of interest on loans and the assessment of overdraft fees.  Future litigation could include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages.  We are also involved from time to time in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and other agencies regarding our business.  These matters also could result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief.  Like other large financial institutions, we are also subject to risk from potential employee misconduct, including non-compliance with policies and improper use or disclosure of confidential information.  Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and/or cause significant reputational harm to our business.. Although publicly traded, our Common Stock has substantially less liquidity than the average liquidity of stocks listed on NASDAQ.. Although our common stock is listed for trading on NASDAQ, our common stock has substantially less liquidity than the average liquidity for companies listed on NASDAQ. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This marketplace depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. This limited market may affect your ability to sell your shares on short notice, and the sale of a large number of shares at one time could temporarily depress the market price of our common stock. For these reasons, our common stock should not be viewed as a short-term investment.. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate in the future, and this volatility may be unrelated to our performance. General market price declines or overall market swings in the future could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices.. 36. Table of Contents. We may be required to repurchase loans we have sold or indemnify loan purchasers under the terms of the sale agreements, which could adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition.. When we sell a mortgage loan, we may agree to repurchase or substitute a mortgage loan if we are later found to have breached any representation or warranty we made about the loan or if the borrower is later found to have committed fraud in connection with the origination of the loan.  While we have underwriting policies and procedures designed to avoid breaches of representations and warranties as well as borrower fraud, there can be no assurance that no breach or fraud will ever occur.  Required repurchases, substitutions or indemnifications could have an adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition."
