[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report.  The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face.  Additional risks not presently known, or those we currently consider insignificant, may also impair our business operations in the future.. Risks Related to Our Business. We historically incurred losses from operating activities, may require significant capital and may never achieve sustained profitability.. For the years ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company had a net loss of approximately $1.5 million and $6.9 million, respectively.  As of April 30, 2018, the Company has an accumulated deficit of approximately $70.8 million. As of April 30, 2018, we had negative working capital of $2.4 million and cash and cash equivalents of $856,000. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents on hand, together with continued improved cash flows from operations, are adequate to fund our operations through at least August 2019.. The amount of our losses and liquidity requirements may vary significantly from year-to-year and quarter-to-quarter and will depend on, among other factors:. • the cost of continuing to build out our TumorGraft Technology Platform;. • the cost and rate of progress toward growing our TOS businesses;. • the cost and rate of progress toward building our sales forces;. • the cost of increasing our research and development;. • the cost of renting our laboratory and animal testing facilities and payment for associated services;. • the timing and cost of obtaining and maintaining any necessary regulatory approvals;. • the cost of expanding and building out our infrastructure; and. • the cost incurred in hiring and maintaining qualified personnel.. Currently, the Company derives revenue from TOS products and POS products, while pursuing efforts to further develop bioinformatics from its TumorBank and its TumorGraft Technology Platform.  In addition, we are building our sales and marketing operations to grow the sales of our TOS products.  Our POS products are not the focus of our growth moving forward.. To become sustainably profitable, we will need to generate revenues to offset our operating costs, including our research and development and general and administrative expenses. We may not achieve or, if achieved, sustain our revenue or profit objectives. Our losses may increase in the future, and, ultimately, we may have to cease operations.. In order to grow revenues, we must invest capital to implement our sales and marketing efforts and to successfully develop our bioinformatics from our TumorBank and our TumorGraft Technology Platform. Because we do not have sufficient history of commercial efforts, our sales and marketing efforts may never generate significant increases in revenues or achieve profitability and it is likely that we will be required to raise additional capital to continue our operations as currently contemplated. If we must devote a substantial amount of time to raising capital, it will delay our ability to achieve our business goals within the time frames that we now expect, which could increase the amount of capital we need. In addition, the amount of time expended by our management on fundraising distracts them from concentrating on our business affairs. If we require additional capital and are not successful in raising the needed capital, we may have to cease operations.. We may incur greater costs than anticipated, which could result in sustained losses.. We use reasonable efforts to assess and predict the expenses necessary to pursue our business strategies. However, implementing our business strategies may require more employees, capital equipment, supplies or other expenditure items than management has predicted. Similarly, the cost of compensating additional management, employees and consultants or other operating costs may be more than we estimate, which could result in ongoing and sustained losses.. We may not be able to implement our business strategies which could impair our ability to continue operations.. 6. Implementation of our business strategies will depend in large part on our ability to (i) attract and maintain a significant number of customers; (ii) effectively provide acceptable services to our customers; (iii) develop and license new products and technologies; (iv)  maintain appropriate internal procedures, policies, and systems; (v) hire, train, and retain skilled employees and management; (vi) continue to operate despite increasing competition in our industry; and (vii) establish, develop and maintain our name recognition. Our inability to obtain or maintain any or all these factors could impair our ability to implement our business strategies successfully, which could have material adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our business could be adversely impacted by changes in FDA's regulatory oversight of laboratory-developed tests such as our POS services that are currently under consideration or by other changes in the regulatory requirements applicable to our POS services imposed by the FDA or regulatory authorities in other countries in which our services are provided.. The FDA has claimed regulatory authority over all laboratory-developed tests, or LDTs, such as our POS services, but has generally not exercised its regulatory authority for most LDTs performed by CLIA-certified laboratories such as our facilities. The FDA has announced several regulatory and guidance initiatives that may impact our business, including by increasing FDA's regulation of LDTs.. On July 31, 2014 the FDA notified Congress of the FDA's intent to issue a draft oversight framework for LDTs based on risk to patients rather than whether they were made by a conventional manufacturer or a single laboratory. This draft oversight framework includes pre-market review for higher-risk LDTs, like those used to guide treatment decisions, including the many companion diagnostics that have entered the market as LDTs. In addition, under the draft framework, the FDA would continue to exercise enforcement discretion for low-risk LDTs and LDTs for rare diseases, among others. The framework would be phased in over many years. If this framework is implemented, these initiatives may lead to an increased regulatory burden on our Company, which may result in a requirement for FDA review and clearance or approval of our POS services. Any increased regulatory burdens would probably result in an increase in the cost of our POS services and could keep us from selling POS services until such time as any required FDA clearance or approval is obtained. If our POS services become subject to FDA's approval and oversight as medical devices, the additional regulatory burdens may be significant, and may require the addition of experienced medical device quality, regulatory and compliance personnel to assume these burdens. Any POS services that we provide in other countries may be similarly subject to regulation by foreign regulatory agencies, which would also increase our costs. These matters could hurt our business and our financial results.. Our laboratories are subject to regulation and licensure requirements, and the healthcare industry is highly regulated; we may face substantial penalties, and our business activities may be impacted, if we fail to comply.. Our TumorGraft products are performed in laboratories that are subject to state regulation and licensure requirements. Such regulation and requirements are subject to change, and may result in additional costs or delays in providing our products to our customers. In addition, the healthcare industry in general is highly regulated in the United States at both the federal and state levels. We seek to conduct our business in compliance with all applicable laws, but many of the laws and regulations potentially applicable to us are vague or unclear. These laws and regulations may be interpreted or applied by an authority in a way that could require us to make changes in our business. We may not be able to obtain all regulatory approvals needed to operate our business or sell our products. If we fail to do so, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties or fines or lose the authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur additional liabilities from third parties. If any of these events happened, they could hurt our business and financial results.. If our laboratory facilities are damaged or destroyed, or we have a dispute with one of our landlords, our business would be negatively affected.. We currently utilize one laboratory in Rockville, Maryland. We opened the lab during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 and transitioned our activities from the Baltimore lab to this new facility. If this facility was to be significantly damaged or destroyed, we could suffer a loss of our ongoing and future drug studies, as well as our TumorBank. In addition, we lease for the laboratory from a third party. If we had a dispute with our landlord or otherwise could not utilize this space, it would take time to find and move to a new facility, which could negatively affect our results of operations.. Any health crisis impacting our colony of laboratory mice could have a negative impact on our business.. Our TumorGraft operations depend on having a colony of live mice available. If this population experienced a health crisis, such as a virus or other pathogen, such crisis would affect the success of our existing TOS and POS business and future business, as we would have to rebuild the population and repeat current TumorGrafts.. 7. We have limited experience marketing and selling our products  and may need to rely on third parties to successfully market and sell our products and generate revenues.. Currently, we rely on the internet, word of mouth, and a small sales force to market our services. We have to compete with other pharmaceutical, biotechnology and life science technology and service companies to recruit, hire, train, and retain marketing and sales personnel.  However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to develop in-house sales, and as a result, we may not be able to generate product revenue.. We will continue to be dependent upon key employees.. Our success, currently, is dependent upon the efforts of several full-time key employees, the loss of the services of one or more of which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We intend to continue to develop our management team and attract and retain qualified personnel in all functional areas to expand and grow our business. This may be difficult in the healthcare industry where competition for skilled personnel is intense.. Because our industry is very competitive and many of our competitors have substantially greater capital resources and more experience in research and development, we may not succeed in selling or increasing sales of our products and technologies.. We are engaged in a rapidly changing and highly competitive field. Potential competitors in the United States and abroad are numerous and include providers of clinical research services, most of which have substantially greater capital resources and more experience in research and development capabilities. Furthermore, new companies will likely enter our market from the United States and abroad, as scientific developments surrounding other pre-clinical and clinical services grow in the multibillion dollar oncology marketplace.  Our competitors may succeed in selling their products to our pharmaceutical and biotech customers more effectively than we sell our products.   In addition, academic institutions, hospitals, governmental agencies, and other public and private research organizations also may conduct similar research, seek patent protection, and may develop and commercially introduce competing products or technologies on their own or through joint ventures. If one or more of our competitors succeeds in developing similar technologies and products that are more effective or successful than any of those that we currently sell or will develop, our results of operations will be significantly adversely affected.. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may not be able to compete as effectively.. It is important in the healthcare industry to obtain patent and trade secret protection for new technologies, products, and processes. Our success will depend, in part, upon our ability to obtain, enjoy, and enforce protection for any products we have, develop or acquire under United States and foreign patent laws and other intellectual property laws, preserve the confidentiality of our trade secrets, and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Where appropriate, we will seek patent protection for certain aspects of our technology. However, while our TumorGraft Technology Platform is proprietary and requires significant know-how to both initiate and operate, it is not patented. It is, therefore, possible for competitors to develop other implantation procedures, or to discover the same procedures utilized by us, that could compete with us in our market.. It also is unclear whether efforts to secure our trade secrets will provide useful protection. While we will use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees or consultants may unintentionally or willfully disclose our proprietary information to competitors resulting in a loss of protection. Enforcing a claim that someone else illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets, like patent litigation, is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Finally, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how.. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, our business and competitive position would be harmed.. We rely on trade secrets, including unpatented know-how, technology and other proprietary information, to maintain our competitive position. We seek to protect these trade secrets, in part, by entering into non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with parties who have access to them, such as our employees, corporate collaborators, outside scientific collaborators, contract manufacturers, consultants, advisors and other third parties. We also seek to enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and consultants. Despite these efforts, any of these parties may breach the agreements and disclose our proprietary information, including our trade secrets, and we may not be able to obtain adequate remedies for such breaches. Our trade secrets may also be obtained by third parties by other means, such as breaches of our physical or computer security systems. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally disclosed or misappropriated a trade secret is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, some courts inside and outside the United States are less willing or unwilling to protect trade secrets. If any of our trade secrets were to be lawfully obtained or independently developed by a competitor,. 8. we would have no right to prevent them, or those to whom they communicate it, from using that technology or information to compete with us. If any of our trade secrets were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our competitive position would be harmed.. Claims by others that our products infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights could adversely affect our financial condition.. The healthcare industry has been characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Patent applications are maintained in secrecy in the United States and also are maintained in secrecy outside the United States until the application is published. Accordingly, we can conduct only limited searches to determine whether our technology infringes the patents or patent applications of others. Any claims of patent infringement asserted by third parties would be time-consuming and could likely:. • result in costly litigation;. • divert the time and attention of our technical personnel and management;. • require us to develop non-infringing technology; or. • require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements.. Patients are unable to obtain reimbursement from third-party payers for our services, limiting the market acceptance of our services, and as a result we may not achieve significant revenues.. Currently, patients are unable to obtain reimbursement from third party payers for our services. Furthermore, the continuing efforts of government and insurance companies, health maintenance organizations (\"HMOs\") and other payers of healthcare costs to contain or reduce costs of health care could affect our revenues and profitability. In the U.S., given recent federal and state government initiatives directed at lowering the total cost of health care, the U.S. Congress and state legislatures will likely continue to focus on health care reform, the cost of prescription pharmaceuticals and on the reform of the Medicare and Medicaid systems. While we cannot predict whether any such legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted, the inability to obtain reimbursement from third party payers for our services limits the market acceptance of our services. As a result, we may not achieve significant revenues.. Our ability to expand our business may depend in part on the extent to which appropriate reimbursement levels for the cost of our proposed formulations and products and related treatments are obtained by governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as HMOs. The trend toward managed health care in the U.S. and the concurrent growth of organizations such as HMOs, which could control or significantly influence the purchase of health care services and drugs, as well as legislative proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may all result in lower prices for or rejection of our services.. TOS studies are subject to cancellation based on changes in customer's development plans.. Our revenue is primarily derived from studies performed for pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to assist in the development of oncology drugs. There are many factors that could result in the change of our customers development plans for specific drugs, including without limitation to their research and development budgets and drug development strategies. These changes could lead to the cancellation or modification of on-going or planned studies. This would have a negative impact on the Company's revenue growth and profit margin.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carry-forwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited.. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, referred to as the Internal Revenue Code, if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change\" (generally defined as a greater than 50% change (by value) in its equity ownership over a three-year period), the corporation's ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carry-forwards and other pre-change tax attributes (such as research tax credits) to offset its post-change income may be limited. We believe that our recent public offering, taken together with our private placements and other transactions that have occurred over the past three years, we may have triggered an \"ownership change\" limitation. We may also experience ownership changes in the future as a result of subsequent shifts in our stock ownership. As a result, if we earn net taxable income, our ability to use our pre-change net operating loss carry-forwards to offset U.S. federal taxable income may be subject to limitations, which potentially could result in increased future tax liability to us.. We have a limited market for our common stock, which makes our securities very speculative.. 9. Trading activity in our common stock is and has been limited. As a result, an investor may find it difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations of the price of our common stock. There can be no assurance that a more active market for our common stock will develop, or if one should develop, there is no assurance that it will be sustained. This could severely limit the liquidity of our common stock, and would likely have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and on our ability to raise additional capital. Furthermore, like many stocks quoted on the Nasdaq Capital Market, trading in our common stock is thin and characterized by wide fluctuations in trading prices, due to many factors that may have little to do with our operations or business prospects. This volatility could depress the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to operating performance.. Investment in our common stock may be diluted if we issue additional shares in the future.. We may issue additional shares of common stock, which will reduce shareholders' percentage ownership and may dilute per share value. Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of 200,000,000 shares of common stock. As of July 13, 2018, we had 11,295,294 shares of common stock issued and 11,025,609 shares outstanding. The future issuance of all or part of the remaining authorized common stock would result in substantial dilution in the percentage of the common stock held by existing shareholders. The issuance of common stock for future services, acquisitions, or other corporate actions may have the effect of diluting the value of the shares held by existing shareholders, and might have an adverse effect on any market for our common stock.. To the extent that we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities or convertible debt securities in the future, our stockholders may experience significant dilution. Sale of additional equity and/or convertible debt securities at prices below certain levels will trigger anti-dilution provisions with respect to certain securities we have previously sold. If additional funds are raised through a credit facility or the issuance of debt securities or preferred stock, lenders under the credit facility or holders of these debt securities or preferred stock would likely have rights that are senior to the rights of holders of our common stock, and any credit facility or additional securities could contain covenants that would restrict our operation.. Potential future sales or issuances of our common stock to raise capital, or the perception that such sales could occur, could cause dilution to our current stockholders and the price of our common stock to fall.. We have historically supported our operations through the issuance of equity and may continue to do so in the future. Although we may not be successful in obtaining financing through equity sales on terms that are favorable to us, if at all, any such sales that do occur could result in substantial dilution to the interests of existing holders of our common stock.. Additionally, the sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other equity securities to any new investors, or the anticipation of such sales, could cause the trading price of our common stock to fall.. The exercise of outstanding options and warrants may dilute current shareholders.. As of July 13, 2018, there were warrants and options outstanding to purchase an aggregate of 4,690,129 shares of our common stock, of which 2,442,099 were vested. The exercise of a substantial number of these outstanding warrants and options could adversely affect our share price and dilute current shareholders.. Our stock price is volatile and therefore investors may not be able to sell their common stock at or above the price they paid for it.. The stock market in general and the market for biotechnology companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. As a result of this volatility, investors may not be able to sell their common stock at or above the price they paid for it. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including:. • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries;. • variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us;. • changes in the healthcare payment system overseas to the degree we receive revenue from such healthcare systems overseas;. • announcements by us of significant acquisition, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments;. • sales of significant shares of stock by large investors;. • intellectual property, product liability, or other litigation against us; and. • the other key facts described in this \"Risk Factors\" section.. 10. Certain provisions of our charter and bylaws and of our contractual agreements contain provisions that could delay and discourage takeover attempts and any attempts to replace our current management by shareholders.. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and our contractual agreements could make it difficult for or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us or changing our board of directors and management. These provisions include:. • requirements that our stockholders comply with advance notice procedures in order to nominate candidates for election to our board of directors or to place stockholders' proposals on the agenda for consideration at meetings of stockholders; and. • in connection with private placements of our stock in 2011, 2013 and 2015, we covenanted that we would not merge or consolidate with another company unless either the transaction and the trading volume of our stock met certain thresholds and qualifications or we obtained the consent of certain of the investors who purchased our stock in those private placements.. Certain provisions of Delaware law make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us and make a takeover more difficult to complete, even if such a transaction were in the stockholders' interest.. The Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that may have the effect of making it more difficult or delaying attempts by others to obtain control of us, even when these attempts may be in the best interests of our stockholders. We also are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibit us from engaging in a \"business combination\" with an \"interested stockholder\" unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner and prohibit the voting of shares held by persons acquiring certain numbers of shares without obtaining requisite approval. The statutes have the effect of making it more difficult to effect a change in control of a Delaware company.. Our management and six significant stockholders collectively own a substantial majority of our common stock.. Collectively, our officers, our directors and six significant stockholders own or exercise voting and investment control of approximately 60% of our outstanding common stock as of July 13, 2018. As a result, investors may be prevented from affecting matters involving our company, including:. • the composition of our board of directors and, through it, any determination with respect to our business direction and policies, including the appointment and removal of officers;. • any determinations with respect to mergers or other business combinations;. • our acquisition or disposition of assets; and. • our corporate financing activities.. Furthermore, this concentration of voting power could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control or other business combination that might otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. This significant concentration of share ownership may also adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors may perceive disadvantages in owning stock in a company that is controlled by a small number of stockholders.. We have not paid any cash dividends in the past and have no plans to issue cash dividends in the future, which could cause the value of our common stock to have a lower value than other similar companies which do pay cash dividends.. We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock to date and do not anticipate any cash dividends being paid to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. While our dividend policy will be based on the operating results and capital needs of the business, it is anticipated that any earnings will be retained to finance our future expansion. As we have no plans to issue cash dividends in the future, our common stock could be less desirable to other investors and as a result, the value of our common stock may decline, or fail to reach the valuations of other similarly situated companies who have historically paid cash dividends in the past.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our common stock adversely, the price of our common stock and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock may be influenced by the research and reports that securities or industry analysts may publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. If any of the analysts who may cover us change their recommendation regarding our common stock adversely, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, the price of our common stock would likely decline. If any analyst who may cover us was to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause the price of our common stock or trading volume to decline.. 11"
