[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Set forth below, elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in other documents we file with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K. We note that factors set forth below, individually or in the aggregate, may cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties.. The outsourcing trend in non-clinical (discovery and safety assessment) stages of drug discovery and development may decrease, which could impair our growth.. Over the past decade, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have generally increased their outsourcing of non-clinical research support activities, such as discovery and safety assessment. While many industry analysts expect the outsourcing trend to continue to increase for the next several years (although with different growth rates for different phases of drug discovery and development), decreases in such outsourcing may result in a diminished growth rate in the sales of any one or more of our service lines and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. For additional discussion of the factors that we believe have recently been influencing outsourcing demand from our clients, please see the section entitled \"Our Strategy\" included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.. A reduction in research and development budgets at pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies may adversely affect our business.. Our clients include researchers at pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Our ability to continue to grow and win new business is dependent in large part upon the ability and willingness of the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries to continue to spend on molecules in the non-clinical phases of research and development (and in particular discovery and safety assessment) and to outsource the products and services we provide. Fluctuations in the expenditure amounts in each phase of the research and development budgets of these researchers and their organizations could have a significant effect on the demand for our products and services. Research and development budgets fluctuate due to changes in available resources, mergers of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, spending priorities (including available resources of our biotechnology clients, particularly those that are cash-negative, who may be highly focused on rationing their liquid assets in a challenging funding environment), general economic conditions, and institutional budgetary policies. Available funding for biotechnology clients in particular may be affected by the capital markets, investment objectives of venture capital investors, and priorities of biopharmaceutical industry sponsors.. Our business could be adversely affected by any significant decrease in drug research and development expenditures by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as by academic institutions, government laboratories, or private foundations. Similarly, economic factors and industry trends that affect our clients in these industries also affect their research. 15. and development budgets and, consequentially, our business as well. Furthermore, our clients (particularly larger biopharmaceutical companies) continue to search for ways to maximize the return on their investments with a focus on leaner research and development costs per drug candidate. For additional discussion of the factors that we believe have recently been influencing research and development budgets at our clients, please see the sections entitled \"Our Strategy\" and \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.. A reduction or delay in government funding of research and development may adversely affect our business.. A portion of revenue, predominantly in our RMS segment, is derived from clients at academic institutions and research laboratories whose funding is partially dependent on both the level and timing of funding from government sources such as the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH) and similar domestic and international agencies, which can be difficult to forecast. Government funding of research and development is subject to the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. Our revenue may be adversely affected if our clients delay purchases as a result of uncertainties surrounding the approval of government budget proposals. Also, government proposals to reduce or eliminate budgetary deficits have sometimes included reduced allocations to the NIH and other government agencies that fund research and development activities. Other programs, such as homeland security or defense, or general efforts to reduce the federal budget deficit could be viewed by the U.S. government as a higher priority. These budgetary pressures may result in reduced allocations in the future to government agencies that fund research and development activities. A reduction in government funding for the NIH or other government research agencies could adversely affect our business and our financial results. Also, there is no guarantee that NIH funding will be directed towards projects and studies that require use of our products and services.. Any failure by us to comply with applicable regulations and related guidance could harm our reputation and operating results, and compliance with new regulations and guidance may result in additional costs.. Any failure on our part to comply with applicable regulations could result in the termination of ongoing research or the disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities. This could harm our reputation, our prospects for future work and our operating results. For example, the issuance of a notice of objectionable observations or a warning from the FDA based on a finding of a material violation by us for GLP or cGMP requirements could materially and adversely affect us. If our operations are found to violate any applicable law or other governmental regulations, we might be subject to civil and criminal penalties, damages and fines. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management's attention from the operation of our business and damage our reputation.. Regulatory monitoring authorities such as the FDA, Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency and OECD have increased their emphasis on the management of computerized systems to ensure data integrity. New guidance related to the need for data integrity compliance programs have recently been released and we may require additional efforts for validation, audit trail review and archiving activities. To assure that we have proper regulatory oversight over our electronic records, a dedicated quality function reviews our computerized system practices to ensure that appropriate record controls are in place and that a robust audit strategy confirms requirements for compliance. In addition, the FDA's recently applicable SEND (Standardization for Exchange of Nonclinical Data) standards which apply to our customers' NDA (and as of December 18, 2017, IND) submissions require us to provide electronic data in specific formats that will allow for more efficient, higher quality regulatory reviews.  Accordingly, our customers expect us to timely deliver their nonclinical data compliant with SEND. Notwithstanding, some of these standards require additional operating and capital expenses that will impact not only us and our industry competitors, but clients in the biomedical research community. Non-compliance with any of these expectations could lead to official action by a government authority, damage to our reputation and a potential loss of business.. In addition, regulations and guidance worldwide concerning the production and use of laboratory animals for research purposes continue to evolve. Similarly, guidance has been and continues to be developed for other areas that impact the biomedical research community on both a national and international basis including transportation, mandated contingency planning, euthanasia guidance, import and export requirements of biological materials, health monitoring requirements and the use of disinfectants.. Contaminations in our animal populations can damage our inventory, harm our reputation for contaminant-free production, result in decreased sales and cause us to incur additional costs.. Our research models and fertile chicken eggs must be free of certain infectious agents such as certain viruses and bacteria because the presence of these contaminants can distort or compromise the quality of research results and could adversely impact human or animal health. The presence of these infectious agents in our animal production facilities and certain service. 16. operations could disrupt our contaminant-free research model and fertile egg production as well as our animal services businesses including GEMS, harm our reputation for contaminant-free production, and result in decreased sales.. If they occur, contaminations typically require cleaning up, renovating, disinfecting, retesting, and restarting production or services. Such clean-ups result in inventory loss, clean-up and start-up costs, and reduced sales as a result of lost client orders and potentially credits for prior shipments. In addition to microbiological contaminations, the potential for genetic mix-ups or mis-matings also exists and may require the restarting of the applicable colonies. While this does not require the complete clean-up, renovation, and disinfection of the room, it would likely result in inventory loss, additional start-up costs and possibly reduced sales. Contaminations also expose us to risks that clients will request compensation for damages in excess of our contractual indemnification requirements. There also exists a risk that contaminations from models that we produce may affect our client's facilities, with similar impact to them for which we could be liable for damages. In some cases, we may produce or import animals carrying infectious agents capable of causing disease in humans; and in the case of such a contamination or undiagnosed infection, there could be a possible risk of human exposure and infection.. We are also subject to similar contamination risks with respect to our large research models. While often we own these models, they may be maintained on our behalf at a site operated by the original provider. Accordingly, risk of contamination may be outside of our control, and we depend on the practices and protocols of third parties to ensure a contamination-free environment. A contamination may require extended CDC quarantine with subsequent reduced sales as a result of lost client orders as well as the potential for complete inventory loss and disinfection of the affected quarantine rooms. Furthermore, while we often negotiate for contractual risk indemnification, we may be exposed in the event of such contaminations if the third party does not fulfill its indemnification obligation or is unable to as a result of insolvency or other impediments.. All such contaminations described above are unanticipated and difficult to predict and could adversely impact our financial results. Many of our operations are comprised of complex mechanical systems which are subject to periodic failure, including aging fatigue. Such failures are unpredictable, and while we have made significant capital expenditures designed to create redundancy within these mechanical systems, strengthen our biosecurity, improve our operating procedures to protect against such contaminations, and replace impaired systems and equipment in advance of such events, failures and/or contaminations may still occur.. We could experience a breach of the confidentiality of the information we hold or of the security of our computer systems.. We operate large and complex computer systems that contain significant amounts of client data. As a routine element of our business, we collect, analyze, and retain substantial amounts of data pertaining to the non-clinical studies we conduct for our clients. Unauthorized third parties could attempt to gain entry to such computer systems for the purpose of stealing data or disrupting the systems. We believe that we have taken appropriate measures to protect them from intrusion, and we continue to improve and enhance our systems in this regard, but in the event that our efforts are unsuccessful, we could suffer significant harm. Our contracts with our clients typically contain provisions that require us to keep confidential the information generated from these studies. In the event the confidentiality of such information was compromised, we could suffer significant harm.. Changes in government regulation or in practices relating to the pharmaceutical or biotechnology industries, including potential healthcare reform, could decrease the need for the services we provide.. Governmental agencies throughout the world, but particularly in the U.S., strictly regulate the drug development process. Our business involves helping pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, among others, navigate the regulatory drug approval process. Accordingly, many regulations, and often new regulations, are expected to result in higher regulatory standards and often additional revenues for companies that service these industries. However, some changes in regulations, such as a relaxation in regulatory requirements or the introduction of streamlined or expedited drug approval procedures, or an increase in regulatory requirements that we have difficulty satisfying or that make our services less competitive, could eliminate or substantially reduce the demand for our services.. Although we believe we are currently in compliance in all material respects with national, regional, and local laws, as well as other accepted guidance used by oversight bodies (which include the USDA, the standards set by the International Air Transport Association, the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, The Centers for Disease Control, the Department of Transportation, the Department of State, the office of Laboratory Animal Welfare of NIH, the Drug Enforcement Agency, as well as numerous other oversight agencies in Canada, Europe, and Asia), failure to comply could subject us to denial of the right to conduct business, fines, criminal penalties, and other enforcement actions. In addition, if regulatory authorities were to mandate a significant reduction in safety assessment procedures which utilize laboratory animals (as has been advocated by certain groups), certain segments of our business could be materially adversely affected.. 17. In March 2010, the U.S. Congress enacted healthcare reform legislation, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or the ACA, intended over time to expand health insurance coverage and impose health industry cost containment measures. In June 2012, the U.S. Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of this legislation. The Court's decision allows implementation of key provisions impacting drug manufacturers going forward, including, but not limited to, (1) expansion of access to health insurance coverage, (2) expansion of the Medicaid program, (3) enactment of an industry fee on pharmaceutical companies, and (4) imposition of an excise tax on the sale of medical devices. Since the law and its implementation continue to face challenges in Congress and federal courts, and from certain state governments, opposition advocacy groups, and some small business organizations, as well as from the incoming president and his administration, we are uncertain as to the ultimate effects of this legislation on our business and are unable to predict what legislative proposals will be adopted in the future.. Implementation of healthcare reform legislation may have certain benefits, but also may contain costs that could limit the profits that can be made from the development of new drugs. This could adversely affect research and development expenditures by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, which could in turn decrease the business opportunities available to us both in the U.S. and abroad. In addition, new laws or regulations may create a risk of liability, increase our costs, or limit our service offerings. Furthermore, if health insurers were to change their practices with respect to reimbursements for pharmaceutical products, our clients may spend less, or reduce their growth in spending on research and development.. The current Executive Branch of the U.S. government has disclosed a key initiative as being to repeal or substantially unwind the ACA. While it is not possible to predict whether and when any such changes will occur, changes at the local, state or federal level may significantly impact our domestic and foreign businesses and/or those of our clients. Specific legislative and regulatory proposals discussed during and after the election that may have a material impact on us or our clients include, but are not limited to, appeal or reform of the ACA; and modifications to international trade policy, public company reporting requirements, environmental regulation and antitrust enforcement.. Our revenue generating agreements contain termination and service reduction provisions or may otherwise terminate according to their term, which may result in less contract revenue than we anticipate.. Many of our agreements with both large and small clients, including those which underlie our strategic relationships with some of our more significant customers, provide for termination or reduction in scope with little or no notice. In addition, we sell our products and services to our competitors, and similarly they sell products and services to us. For instance, we have historically entered into, and currently are party to, contracts with certain of our competitors to distribute specialty research models in locations where our competitors may not have distribution capabilities.. Clients and/or competitors may elect to terminate their agreements with us for various reasons including:. • the products being tested fail to satisfy safety requirements;. • unexpected or undesired study results;. • production problems resulting in shortages of the drug being tested;. • a client's decision to forego or terminate a particular study;. • establishment of alternative distribution channels by our competitors;. • the loss of funding for the particular research study; or. • general convenience/counterparty preference.. If a client or competitor terminates a contract with us, we are typically entitled under the terms of the contract to receive revenue earned to date as well as certain other costs and, in some cases, termination fees. Cancellation of a large contract or proximate delay, cancellation or conclusion of multiple contracts could materially adversely affect our business and, therefore, may adversely affect our operating results.. Many of our contracts are fixed price and may be delayed or terminated or reduced in scope for reasons beyond our control, or we may under - price or overrun cost estimates with these contracts, potentially resulting in financial losses.. Many of our contracts provide for services on a fixed price or fee-for-service with a cap basis and, accordingly, we bear the financial risk if we initially under-price our contracts or otherwise overrun our cost estimates. In addition, these contracts may be terminated or reduced in scope either immediately or upon notice. Cancellations may occur for a variety of reasons, and often at the discretion of the client. The loss, reduction in scope or delay of a large contract or the loss or delay of multiple contracts could materially adversely affect our business, although our contracts frequently entitle us to receive the costs of. 18. winding down the terminated projects, as well as all fees earned by us up to the time of termination. Some contracts also entitle us to a predetermined termination fee and irrevocably committed costs/expenses.. Several of our product and service offerings are dependent on a limited source of supply, which if interrupted could adversely affect our business.. We depend on a limited international source of supply for certain products, such as large research models. Disruptions to their continued supply may arise from health problems, export or import laws/restrictions or embargoes, international trade regulations, foreign government or economic instability, severe weather conditions, increased competition among suppliers for models, disruptions to the air travel system, activist campaigns, commercial disputes, supplier insolvency, or other normal-course or unanticipated events. Any disruption of supply could harm our business if we cannot remove the disruption or are unable to secure an alternative or secondary supply source on comparable commercial terms.. If we are not successful in selecting and integrating the businesses and technologies we acquire, or in managing our current and future divestitures, our business may suffer.. During the past fifteen years, we have steadily expanded our business through numerous acquisitions. We plan to continue to acquire businesses and technologies and form strategic alliances. However, businesses and technologies may not be available on terms and conditions we find acceptable. We risk spending time and money investigating and negotiating with potential acquisition or alliance partners, but not completing transactions.. On February 12, 2018, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire MPI Research, a non-clinical CRO, providing comprehensive testing services to biopharmaceutical and medical device companies worldwide. If consummated, this transaction will be the largest acquisition in nearly fifteen years. Refer to Item 8, \"Financial Statements and Other Supplementary Data\" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more details.. Acquisitions and alliances involve numerous risks which may include:. • difficulties in achieving business and financial success;. • difficulties and expenses incurred in assimilating and integrating operations, services, products, technologies, or pre-existing relationships with our customers, distributors, and suppliers;. • challenges with developing and operating new businesses, including those which are materially different from our existing businesses and which may require the development or acquisition of new internal capabilities and expertise;. • potential losses resulting from undiscovered liabilities of acquired companies that are not covered by the indemnification we may obtain from the seller or the insurance we acquire in connection with the transaction;. • loss of key employees;. • the presence or absence of adequate internal controls and/or significant fraud in the financial systems of acquired companies;. • diversion of management's attention from other business concerns;. • becoming subject to a more expansive regulatory environment;. • acquisitions could be dilutive to earnings, or in the event of acquisitions made through the issuance of our common stock to the shareholders of the acquired company, dilutive to the percentage of ownership of our existing shareholders;. • risks of not being able to overcome differences in foreign business practices, customs, and importation regulations, language, and other cultural barriers in connection with the acquisition of foreign companies;. • new technologies and products may be developed which cause businesses or assets we acquire to become less valuable; and. • risks that disagreements or disputes with prior owners of an acquired business, technology, service, or product may result in litigation expenses and diversion of our management's attention.. In the event that an acquired business, technology, or an alliance does not meet our expectations, our results of operations may be adversely affected.. 19. Some of the same risks exist when we decide to sell a business, site, or product line. In addition, divestitures could involve additional risks, including the following:. • difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products, and personnel;. • diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and. • the need to agree to retain or assume certain current or future liabilities in order to complete the divestiture.. We continually evaluate the performance and strategic fit of our businesses. These and any divestitures may result in significant write-offs, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers, or, alternative exit strategies at acceptable prices and terms, and in a timely manner. We may not be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that we encounter in divesting a business, site, or product line, and as a result, we may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of the divestiture.. Impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets may adversely impact future results of operations.. We have intangible assets, including goodwill, on our balance sheet due to our acquisitions of businesses. The initial identification and valuation of these intangible assets and the determination of the estimated useful lives at the time of acquisition involve use of management judgments and estimates. These estimates are based on, among other factors, projections of cash flows that arise from identifiable intangible assets of acquired businesses and discount rates based on an analysis of our weighted average cost of capital, adjusted for specific risks associated with the assets. Disruptions in global financial markets and deterioration of economic conditions could, among other things, impact the discount rate and other assumptions used in the valuations and actual cash flows arising from a particular intangible asset could vary from projected cash flows, which could imply different carrying values from those established at the dates of acquisition and which could result in impairment of such assets.. If the future growth and operating results of our business are not as strong as anticipated, overall macroeconomic or industry conditions deteriorate and/or our market capitalization declines, this could impact the assumptions used in establishing the carrying value of goodwill or other intangible assets. To the extent goodwill or other intangible assets are impaired, their carrying value will be written down to their implied fair values and a charge will be made to our income from continuing operations. Such an impairment charge could materially and adversely affect our operating results. As of December 30, 2017, the carrying amount of goodwill and other intangibles on our consolidated balance sheet was $1,174.7 million.. Our business is subject to risks relating to operating internationally.. A significant part of our revenue is derived from operations outside the U.S. Our international revenue represented approximately one-half of our total revenue in recent years. We expect that international revenue will continue to account for a significant percentage of our total revenue for the foreseeable future. There are a number of risks associated with our international business including:. • foreign currencies we receive for sales and in which we record expenses outside the U.S. could be subject to unfavorable exchange rates with the U.S. dollar and reduce the amount of revenue and cash flow (and increase the amount of expenses) that we recognize and cause fluctuations in reported financial results;. • certain contracts, particularly in Canada, are frequently denominated in currencies other than the currency in which we incur expenses related to those contracts, and where expenses are incurred in currencies other than those in which contracts are priced, fluctuations in the relative value of those currencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations;. • general economic and political conditions in the markets in which we operate;. • potential international conflicts, including terrorist acts;. • exchange controls, adverse tax consequences, and legal restrictions on the repatriation of funds into the U.S.;. • difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations, including risks of work stoppages and/or strikes, as well as violations of local laws or anti-bribery laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, and the OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions;. • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;. 20. • the difficulties of compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations;. • unfavorable labor regulations in foreign jurisdictions;. • potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of U.S. and foreign tax laws;. • exposure to business disruption or property damage due to geographically unique natural disasters (including within the U.S.);. • longer accounts receivable cycles in certain foreign countries; and. • compliance with import requirements and other trade regulations.. Changes in E.U. privacy and data protection regulations could have a material adverse impact on our operations. The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) becomes effective in May 2018 and will replace the 1995 Data Protection Directive. The GDPR will impose heightened obligations on businesses that control and manage the personal data of E.U. citizens. The penalties for non-compliance are significant, including up to four percent of global revenue.. These risks, individually or in the aggregate, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For example, as mentioned above, we are subject to compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. While our employees, distributors and agents are required to comply with these laws, we cannot be sure that our internal policies and procedures will always protect us from violations of these laws despite our commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics. The occurrence or allegation of these types of risks may adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our facilities could be damaged or disrupted by natural disasters or other catastrophic events which could adversely affect our reputation, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. While we have taken precautions to mitigate production and service interruptions at our global facilities, a major catastrophe, such as a hurricane, tornado, earthquake, flood, wildfire or other natural disaster (or other unanticipated displacement) at or near any of our facilities could result in physical damage to our properties, including closure, resulting in a prolonged interruption of our business. A disruption resulting from any one of these events could cause significant delays in shipments of our products, reduce our capacity to provide services, eradicate unique manufacturing capabilities and, ultimately, result in the loss of revenue and customers. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. New technologies may be developed, validated, and increasingly used in biomedical research that could reduce demand for some of our products and services.. The scientific and research communities continue to explore methods to develop improved cellular and animal model systems that would increase the translation to human studies and vice-versa and possibly replace or supplement the use of traditional living animals as test platforms in biomedical research. Some companies have developed techniques in these areas that may have scientific merit to improve translation between species. In addition, technological improvements to existing or new processes, such as imaging and other translational biomarker technologies, could result in the refinement and utility for the number of animal research models necessary to improve the translation from non-clinical to clinical studies. There is an increasing push to focus on in vitro technologies such that employ human biospecimens, stem cell technologies, and genome editing.. It is our strategy to explore these in vitro technologies to refine and potentially reduce the utilization of animal models as these new methods become validated. For example, Charles River Laboratories Cleveland, Ind. (f/k/a ChanTest Corporation) has a well-developed program to evaluate the utility of induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes, advanced in vitro models and \"organ-on-a-chip\" technologies. Successful commercialization of alternatives to traditional research models may not be sufficient to fully offset reduced sales or profits from research models. In addition, alternative research methods could decrease the need for future research models, and we may not be able to develop new products effectively or in a timely manner to replace any lost sales. Lastly, other companies or entities may develop research models with characteristics different than the ones that we produce, and which may be viewed as more desirable by some of our clients.. Negative attention from special interest groups may impair our business.. The products and services which we provide our clients are essential to the drug discovery, development and manufacturing processes, and a significant amount are mandated by law. Notwithstanding, certain special interest groups categorically object. 21. to the use of animals for valid research purposes. Historically, our core research model activities with rats, mice and other rodents have not been the subject of significant animal rights media attention. However, research activities with animals have been the subject of adverse attention, including shareholder proposals and attempts to disrupt air carriers from transporting research models, impacting the industry. This has included periodic demonstrations near facilities operated by us and at our annual meetings, as well as shareholder proposals we received for some of our past Annual Meetings of Shareholders. Any negative attention, threats or acts of vandalism directed against either our animal research activities or our third party service providers such as our airline carriers in the future could impair our ability to operate our business efficiently.. Our debt level could adversely affect our business and growth prospects.. As of December 30, 2017, we had $1.1 billion of debt and in connection with our plan to acquire MPI Research (See Note 17 \"Subsequent Event\", included in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere in this Form 10-K), we announced our intention to increase our debt level by approximately $830 million by obtaining a commitment letter for a bridge loan facility. We are evaluating fixed-rate debt financing alternatives which could be used to finance the acquisition and for general corporate purposes. Our debt could have significant adverse effects on our business, including making it more difficult for us to obtain additional financing on favorable terms; requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the repayment of debt and the interest on this debt; limiting our ability to capitalize on significant business opportunities; and making us more vulnerable to rising interest rates. For additional information regarding our debt, please see Note 7, \"Long-Term Debt and Capital Lease Obligations\", included in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.. The drug discovery, development services and manufacturing support industries are highly competitive.. The drug discovery, non-clinical development, and manufacturing support services industries are highly competitive. We often compete for business not only with other CROs, but also with internal discovery and development departments within our larger clients, who may have greater resources than ours. We also compete with universities and teaching hospitals for outsourced services. We compete on a variety of factors, including:. • reputation for on-time quality performance;. • reputation for regulatory compliance;. • expertise and experience in multiple specialized areas;. • scope and breadth of service and product offerings across the drug discovery and development spectrum;. • scope and breadth of service and product offerings across the manufacturing support spectrum;. • ability to provide flexible and customized solutions to support our clients' drug discovery, non-clinical development, and manufacturing support needs;. • broad geographic availability (with consistent quality);. • price/value;. • technological expertise and efficient drug development processes;. • quality of facilities;. • financial stability;. • size;. • ability to acquire, process, analyze, and report data in an accurate manner; and. • accessibility of client data through secure portals.. If we do not compete successfully, our business will suffer. Increased competition might lead to price and other concessions that could adversely affect our operating results. The drug discovery and development services industry has continued to see a trend towards consolidation, particularly among the biotechnology companies, who are targets for each other and for larger pharmaceutical companies. If this trend continues, it is likely to produce more competition among the larger companies and CROs generally, with respect to both clients and acquisition candidates. In addition, small, specialized entities considering entering the CRO industries will continue to find lower barriers to entry, and private equity firms may determine that there are opportunities to acquire and consolidate these companies, thus further increasing possible competition. More generally, our. 22. competitors or others might develop technologies, services or products that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or future technologies, services, or products, or that render our technologies, services, or products less competitive or obsolete. If competitors introduce superior technologies, services, or products and we cannot make enhancements to ours to remain competitive, our competitive position, and in turn our business, revenue, and financial condition, would be materially and adversely affected. In the aggregate, these competitive pressures may affect the attractiveness of our technologies, services, or products and could adversely affect our financial results.. Potential Changes in U.S. and International Tax Law.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law significant U.S. tax law changes (U.S. Tax Reform) which reduces the U.S. federal statutory tax rate, broadens the corporate tax base through the elimination or reduction of deductions, exclusions, and credits, limits the ability of U.S. corporations to deduct interest expense, and transitions to a territorial tax system which will allow for the repatriation of foreign earnings to the U.S. with a 100% federal dividends received deduction prospectively. In addition, U.S. Tax Reform requires a one-time transitional tax on foreign cash equivalents and previously unremitted earnings. Several of the new provisions enacted as part of U.S. Tax Reform require clarification and guidance from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and Treasury Department. These or other changes in U.S. tax laws could impact our profits, effective tax rate, and cash flows.. We have substantial operations in Canada, Ireland and the United Kingdom which currently benefit from favorable corporate tax arrangements. We receive substantial tax credits in Canada, from both the Canadian federal and Quebec governments, and the U.K. Any reduction in the availability or amount of these tax credits or increase to tax rates due to tax law changes or outcomes of tax controversies could have a material adverse effect on our profits, cash flows, and effective tax rate.. Currently, the OECD has developed an action plan to address concerns regarding base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS). This initiative has resulted in proposed and enacted changes to tax laws in various countries including France, Germany, Luxembourg, and the U.K. Future changes to tax laws or interpretation of tax laws resulting from the BEPS project could increase our effective tax rate, which would affect our profitability.. Contract research services create a risk of liability.. As a CRO, we face a range of potential liabilities which may include:. • errors or omissions in reporting of study detail in non-clinical studies that may lead to inaccurate reports, which may undermine the usefulness of a study or data from the study, or which may potentially advance studies absent the necessary support or inhibit studies from proceeding to the next level of testing;. • risks associated with our possible failure to properly care for our clients' property, such as research models and samples, study compounds, records, work in progress, other archived materials, or goods and materials in transit, while in our possession;. • risks that models in our breeding facilities or in facilities that we manage may be infected with diseases that may be harmful and even lethal to them or humans, despite preventive measures contained in our policies for the quarantine and handling of imported animals; and. • risks that we may have errors and omissions and/or product liabilities related to our products designed to conduct lot release testing of medical devices, injectable drugs, food, beverages, and home and beauty products (primarily through our Microbial Solutions business), or in the testing of biologics and other services performed by our Biologics business, which could result in us or our clients failing to identify unsafe or contaminated materials.. While we attempt to mitigate these risks through a variety of methods, it is impossible to completely eradicate such risks. In our RMS business, we mitigate these risks to the best of our abilities through our regimen of animal testing, quarantine procedures, and veterinary staff vigilance, through which we seek to control the exposure of animal related disease or infections. In our DSA and Manufacturing businesses, we attempt to reduce these risks by contractual risk transfer provisions entitling us to be indemnified by our clients and subject to a limitation of liability, by insurance maintained by our clients and/or by us, and by various regulatory requirements we must follow in connection with our business.. Contractual risk transfer indemnifications generally do not protect us against liability arising from certain of our own actions, such as negligence or misconduct. We could be materially and adversely affected if we are required to pay damages or bear the costs of defending any claim that is outside any contractual indemnification provision, or if a party does not fulfill its indemnification obligations, or the damage is beyond the scope or level of insurance coverage. We also often contractually indemnify our clients (subject to a limitation of liability), similar to the way they indemnify us, and we may be materially. 23. adversely affected if we have to fulfill our indemnity obligations. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that neither we nor a party required to indemnify us will be able to maintain such insurance coverage (either at all or on terms acceptable to us).. Upgrading and integrating our business systems could result in implementation issues and business disruptions.. In recent years, we implemented a project to replace many of our numerous legacy business systems at certain sites worldwide with an enterprise wide, integrated enterprise resource planning (ERP) system. The expansion of the ERP system to other international locations may occur at a future date based on value to the business. In general, the process of planning and preparing for these types of integrated, wide-scale implementations is extremely complex and we are required to address a number of challenges including data conversion, system cutover, and user training. Problems in any of these areas could cause operational problems during implementation including delayed shipments, missed sales, billing and accounting errors, and other operational issues. There have been numerous, well-publicized instances of companies experiencing difficulties with the implementation of ERP systems, which resulted in negative business consequences.. The drug discovery and development industry has a history of patent and other intellectual property litigation, and we might be involved in costly intellectual property lawsuits.. The drug discovery and development industry has a history of patent and other intellectual property litigation and these lawsuits will likely continue.. In July 2015, IDEXX Laboratories, Inc. and IDEXX Distribution, Inc. (collectively, IDEXX) filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware alleging we have infringed three (3) recently issued patents related to a blood spot sample collection method used in determining the presence or absence of an infectious disease in a population of rodents. In February 2017, we entered into a settlement agreement with IDEXX, which included a license to us of the relevant technology, the withdrawal by IDEXX of their complaint and withdrawal by us of our inter partes review filing.. Legal proceedings relating to intellectual property are expensive, take significant time, and divert management's attention from other business concerns, whether we win or lose. If we do not prevail in an infringement lawsuit brought against us, we might have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages, and we could be required to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license to use technology on unfavorable terms.. We may not be able to successfully develop and market new services and products.. We may seek to develop and market new services and products that complement or expand our existing business or service offerings. We believe our ability to in-license new technologies from third parties will be critical to our ability to offer new products and services to our customers. Our ability to gain access to technologies that we need for new products and services depends, in part, on our ability to convince inventors and their agents or assignees that we can successfully commercialize their inventions. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to identify new technologies of interest to our customers. Even if we are able to identify new technologies of interest, we may not be able to negotiate license agreements on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to develop new services and products and/or create demand for those newly developed services and products, our future business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be adversely affected.. We depend on key personnel and may not be able to retain these employees or recruit additional qualified personnel, which would harm our business.. Our success depends to a significant extent on the continued services of our senior management and other members of management. James C. Foster, our Chief Executive Officer since 1992 and Chairman since 2000, has held various positions with us for four decades. While we recently entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Foster, most members of our senior management do not have employment agreements. If Mr. Foster or other members of senior management do not continue in their present positions, our business may suffer.. Because of the specialized scientific nature of our business, we are highly dependent upon attracting and retaining qualified scientific, technical, and managerial personnel. While we have a strong record of employee retention, there is still significant competition for qualified personnel in the veterinary, pharmaceutical, and biotechnology fields. Therefore, we may not be able to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. The loss of the services of existing personnel, as well as the failure to recruit additional key scientific, technical, and managerial personnel in a timely manner, could harm our business.. Our quarterly operating results may vary, which could negatively affect the market price of our common stock.. Our results of operations in any quarter may vary from quarter to quarter and are influenced by such factors as:. 24. • changes in the general global economy;. • the number and scope of ongoing client engagements;. • the commencement, postponement, delay, progress, completion, or cancellation of client contracts in the quarter;. • changes in the mix of our products and services;. • competitive pricing pressures;. • the extent of cost overruns;. • holiday buying patterns of our clients;. • budget cycles of our clients;. • changes in tax laws, rules, regulations, and tax rates in the locations in which we operate;. • the timing and charges associated with completed acquisitions and other events;. • the financial performance of our venture capital investments;. • the occasional extra week (\"53rd week\") that we recognize in a fiscal year (and fourth fiscal quarter thereof) due to our fiscal year ending on the last Saturday in December; and. • exchange rate fluctuations.. We believe that operating results for any particular quarter are not necessarily a meaningful indication of future results. Nonetheless, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could negatively affect the market price of our common stock.. Referendum on the United Kingdom's membership in the European Union (\"Brexit\") may adversely affect our business.. On June 23, 2016, the U.K. held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the European Union (E.U.), referred to as \"Brexit.\" As a result of the referendum, the British government continues to negotiate the terms of the U.K.'s future relationship with the E.U. The decision by referendum to withdraw the U.K. from the E.U. caused significant volatility in global stock markets and currency exchange rate fluctuations. The execution of Brexit also may create global economic uncertainty, which may cause our customers and potential customers to monitor their costs and reduce their budgets for our products and services. In addition, Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. determines which E.U. laws to replace or replicate. Given that we conduct a substantial portion of our business in the E.U. and the U.K., these effects of Brexit, among others, could adversely affect our business, business opportunities, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.. Since we do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future, our shareholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value.. We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock, and do not anticipate that we will pay any dividends to holders of our common stock for the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our financial condition, capital requirements, legal requirements, earnings and other factors. Consequently, our shareholders should not rely on dividends to receive a return on their investment."
