[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. We operate in a dynamic and rapidly changing business environment that involves substantial risk and uncertainty, and these risks may change over time. The following discussion addresses some of the risks and uncertainties that could cause, or contribute to causing, actual results to differ materially from expectations. In evaluating our business, you should pay particular attention to the descriptions of risks and uncertainties described below. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Our future financial performance depends upon increased consumer acceptance, growth of sales of our products, and operational execution of our strategic initiatives. We believe that most consumers are not generally aware of the existence and attributes of moissanite jewels and that the consumer market for moissanite jewels and finished jewelry featuring moissanite remains in the early stages of development. Total moissanite jewelry retail sales have historically been less than 1% of the total jewelry market. The degree of future market acceptance and demand is subject to a significant amount of uncertainty. Our future financial performance will depend, in part, upon greater consumer acceptance of moissanite jewels as an ethically-sourced, affordable, luxurious alternative to other gemstones, such as diamond, and our ability to develop brands and execute strategic initiatives, in particular, our Online Channels segment, to grow our sales and operating income. As we execute our strategy to build and reinvest in our business, significant expenses and investment of cash will be required ahead of the revenue streams we expect in the future, and this may adversely affect our operating income. If we are unable to execute and achieve desired revenue levels, we may adjust our strategic initiatives in response to the results of our investments.. In addition, consumer acceptance may be affected by retail jewelers' and jewelry manufacturers' acceptance of moissanite jewels and finished jewelry featuring moissanite. The quality, design, and workmanship of the jewelry settings, and the quality of the gemstones, whether manufactured by us or other manufacturers, could affect both consumers' perception and acceptance of our jewels and costs incurred by returns and markdowns. Additionally, as other competitors enter the market, the lower quality of competitors' gemstones could negatively impact consumer perception of moissanite, and in turn, acceptance of our jewels.. Thus, our future financial performance may be affected by:. ·    our ability to understand the consumer market segment and effectively market to them a compelling value proposition that leads to converted customers;. ·    our ability to reach consumers through traditional and digital channels in order to gain interest in moissanite jewels and jewelry;. ·    our continued success in developing and promoting brands for our moissanite jewels and finished jewelry featuring moissanite, resulting in increased interest and demand for moissanite jewelry at the consumer level;. ·    our ability to differentiate Charles & Colvard Created Moissanite® from competing products making their way to market;. ·    the continued willingness and ability of our jewelry distributors and other jewelry suppliers, manufacturers, and designers to market and promote Charles & Colvard Created Moissanite® to the retail jewelry trade;. ·    the continued willingness of distributors, retailers, and others in the channel of distribution to purchase loose Charles & Colvard Created Moissanite®, and the continued willingness of manufacturers, designers, and retail jewelers to undertake setting of the loose jewels;. ·    our continued ability and the ability of manufacturers, designers, and retail jewelers to select jewelry settings that encourage consumer acceptance of and demand for our moissanite jewels and finished jewelry;. ·    our continued ability and the ability of jewelry manufacturers and retail jewelers to set loose moissanite jewels in finished jewelry with high-quality workmanship;. ·    our continued ability and the ability of retail jewelers to effectively market and sell finished jewelry featuring moissanite to consumers; and. ·    our ability to operationally execute our Online Channels segment.. 17. Table of Contents. The execution of our business plans could significantly impact our liquidity.  The execution of our business plans to expand our Online Channels segment and to create required inventory of our Forever OneTM jewels requires significant investments, which may reduce our cash position. Should we fail to execute on our business plans, we could see delays in the return of cash from our investments, resulting in a liquidity shortfall. Under the $10.00 million asset-based revolving credit facility, or the Credit Facility, that we obtained from Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, or Wells Fargo, on June 25, 2014, failure to meet one or more of the following covenants could restrict our ability to draw or make further draws on the Credit Facility: (i) failure to conduct our business as conducted on the date we obtained the Credit Facility; (ii) failure to make required payments to third parties; and (iii) failure to comply with the other covenants and defaults contained in the Credit Facility, including a covenant to maintain at least $1.00 million in excess availability (as defined under the Credit Facility) and a covenant that required us to maintain a specified minimum monthly EBITDA through December 2017 if the cash position for our demand deposit account maintained at Wells Fargo falls below $3.00 million or we draw upon the Credit Facility. If we are not able to take advances against the Credit Facility, our cash and cash equivalents and other working capital may be insufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs. In addition, the Credit Facility matures on June 25, 2018, and there is no guarantee for extension or renewal.. Our business and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected as a result of our inability to fulfill orders on a timely basis. As sales of our loose moissanite jewels increase, including our Forever OneTM jewel, availability of certain shapes and sizes may be at risk. In addition, finished jewelry has a large variety of styles of which we maintain on-hand stock for such core designs as stud earrings, solitaire and three-stone rings, pendants, and bracelets; and made-to-order under strict deadlines for certain wholesale and direct-to-consumer e-commerce outlets. We must adequately maintain relationships, forecast demand, and operate within the lead times of third parties that facet and/or enhance the jewels and manufacture the finished jewelry setting to ensure adequate on-hand quantities and/or the shipment of customer orders in a timely manner as we transition certain customers from Forever Brilliant® to Forever OneTM. In addition, we are currently dependent upon certain vendors for all of the faceting of our loose jewels. If any or all of these vendors were to cancel their arrangements with us, we could experience a disruption in our operations and incur additional costs to procure faceting services from a replacement vendor. The inability to fulfill orders on a timely basis and within promised customer deadlines could result in a cancellation of the orders and loss of customer goodwill that could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. The financial difficulties or insolvency of one or more of our major customers or their lack of willingness and ability to market our products could adversely affect results. We are subject to a concentration of credit risk amongst our major customers (some of whom are distributors), and a default by any of these customers on their debts to us could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. Future sales and our ability to collect accounts receivable depend, in part, on the financial strength of our customers and our distributors' willingness and ability to successfully market our products. We estimate an allowance for accounts for which collectability is at risk and this allowance adversely impacts profitability. In the event customers experience greater than anticipated financial difficulties, insolvency, or difficulty marketing products, we expect profitability to be adversely impacted by our failure to collect accounts receivable in excess of the estimated allowance. In these circumstances, we may demand the return of product sold to such customers, resulting in an increase in inventory and a reduction in accounts receivable. While general economic conditions have improved in recent periods, given uncertainty in the current economic environment, constrained access to capital, the impact of inflation on our currency, or general market contractions may heighten our exposure to customer default and generate lower than expected distributor sales.. We are currently substantially dependent on a limited number of distributors, jewelry manufacturers, and retailers for the sale of our products. A significant portion of the moissanite jewels and finished jewelry featuring moissanite that we sell are distributed through a limited number of distributors, manufacturers, and retailers and, therefore, we are substantially dependent upon these companies for distribution of our products. During 2017, our three largest customers, which are loose jewel and finished jewelry distributors, collectively accounted for approximately 38% of net sales. As we continue to build our finished jewelry business, we anticipate in the near term that a significant portion of the moissanite jewels and finished jewelry featuring moissanite that we sell will continue to be to a limited number of manufacturers, distributors, and retailers.. We expect to remain dependent upon the Supply Agreement with Cree for the sole supply of our SiC crystals for the foreseeable future. If we are unable to obtain sufficient, high-quality SiC crystals from Cree and we have a significant increase in demand for our moissanite jewels, then we may not be able to meet that demand. Cree has certain proprietary rights relating to its process for growing large single crystals of SiC and its process for growing colorless and near-colorless SiC crystals. Under the Supply Agreement, subject to certain terms and conditions, we agreed to exclusively purchase from Cree, and Cree agreed to exclusively supply, 100% of our required SiC materials in quarterly installments that must equal or exceed a set minimum order quantity. The initial term of the Supply Agreement will expire on June 24, 2018, unless extended by the parties. Accordingly, we are reviewing various alternatives with respect to our purchase of SiC material, including whether to exercise our unilateral option, subject to certain conditions, to renew the Supply Agreement for an additional two-year period. Our total purchase commitment under the Supply Agreement until June 2018 is dependent upon the size of the SiC material and ranges between approximately $29.60 million and approximately $31.50 million. However, there can be no assurance that Cree will be able to continue to produce and supply us with SiC crystals of sufficient quality, sizes, and volumes that we desire or that we will successfully negotiate future purchase commitments at acceptable prices that enable us to manage our inventories and raw material costs effectively.. 18. Table of Contents. We face intense competition in the worldwide jewelry industry. The jewelry industry is highly competitive and we compete with numerous other jewelry products. In addition, we face competition from treated diamonds, synthetic diamonds, lab-grown diamonds, other moissanite jewels, and companies developing other synthetic jewelry technologies. A substantial number of companies supply products to the jewelry industry, many of whom we believe have greater financial resources than we do. Competitors could develop new or improved technologies that may render the price point for moissanite noncompetitive, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. In addition, we have previously relied on our patent rights and other intellectual property rights to maintain our competitive position. Our current U.S. product and method patents for moissanite jewels expired in 2015 and most of our patents in foreign jurisdictions expired in 2016 with only Mexico remaining (which expires in 2021). As a result, we anticipate new providers of moissanite will enter the market. However, because the process of creating high-quality moissanite is challenging, we believe it will take emerging providers significant time and investment to bring meaningful and competitive products to market. As we experienced ourselves, we anticipate it will take these new providers significant time to evolve from producing low-end moissanite to delivering high-quality gemstones in the colorless or near-colorless range. Achieving the capacity to consistently produce a high-quality moissanite product at mass scale requires a careful balance of SiC-specific faceting skills and a well-tuned global supply chain. Therefore, we do not anticipate direct moissanite competition in our superior quality gemstone ranges for the foreseeable future. If, however, we are unable to successfully build strong brands for our moissanite jewels and finished jewelry featuring moissanite or competition grows faster than expected, we may not have commercially meaningful protection for our products or a commercial advantage against our competitors or their competitive products or processes, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Our failure to maintain compliance with Nasdaq's continued listing requirements could result in the delisting of our common stock.  Our common stock is currently listed on The Nasdaq Capital Market. In order to maintain this listing, we must satisfy minimum financial and other requirements. In the past, we have received a notification letter from Nasdaq indicating that we were not in compliance with listing requirements because the minimum bid price of our common stock closed below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days. However, Nasdaq subsequently notified us that we had regained compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. If we fail to satisfy Nasdaq's listing requirements in the future, we expect to take actions to regain compliance, but we can provide no assurance that any such action would prevent our common stock from dropping below the Nasdaq minimum bid price requirement or prevent future non-compliance with Nasdaq's listing requirements. If our common stock is delisted from Nasdaq, the delisting could substantially decrease trading in our common stock and adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock; adversely affect our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms, if at all; and may result in the potential loss of confidence by investors, suppliers, customers, and employees and fewer business development opportunities. Additionally, the market price of our common stock may decline further and shareholders may lose some or all of their investment.. Our current customers may potentially perceive us as a competitor in the finished jewelry business. As described above, we are currently dependent on a limited number of customers, including distributors, jewelry manufacturers, and retailers for the sale of our products. Our design, manufacture, and marketing of finished jewelry featuring moissanite under exclusive brands for sale to distributors and retailers may result in some of these current customers perceiving us as a competitor, despite our efforts to use primarily non-conflicting sales channels. In response, these customers may choose to reduce their orders for our products. This reduction in orders could occur faster than our sales growth in this business, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. 19. Table of Contents. We may experience quality control challenges from time to time that can result in lost revenue and harm to our brands and reputation.  Part of our strategy for success is to establish Charles & Colvard with reputable, high-quality, and sophisticated brands. The achievement of this goal depends in large part on our ability to provide customers with high-quality moissanite and finished jewelry featuring moissanite. Although we take measures to ensure that we sell only the best quality products, we may face quality control challenges, which could impact our competitive advantage. There can be no assurance we will be able to detect and resolve all quality control issues prior to shipment of products to our distributors, manufacturers, retailers, and end consumers. Failure to do so could result in lost revenue, lost customers, significant warranty and other expenses, and harm to our reputation.. Our business and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected as a result of general economic and market conditions. Our business, including our sales volumes and overall profitability, could be adversely impacted by disruptions in global financial markets, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increased unemployment rates, and uncertainty about economic stability. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the effects of these disruptions in the financial markets and the adverse global economic conditions, and if economic conditions deteriorate, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The consequences of such adverse effects could include interruptions or delays in our suppliers' performance of our contracts, reductions and delays in customer purchases, delays in or the inability of customers to obtain financing to purchase our products, and bankruptcy of customers and/or suppliers.. Luxury products, such as fine jewelry, are discretionary purchases for consumers. Recessionary economic cycles, higher interest rates, higher fuel and energy costs, inflation, levels of unemployment, conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, access to credit, consumer debt levels, unsettled financial markets, and other economic factors that may affect consumer spending or buying habits could materially and adversely affect demand for our products. In addition, volatility in the financial markets has had and may continue to have a negative impact on consumer spending patterns. A reduction in consumer spending or disposable income may affect us more significantly than companies in other industries and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Our operations could be disrupted by natural disasters. We conduct substantially all of our activities, including executive management, manufacturing, packaging, and distribution activities, at one North Carolina location.  Although we have taken precautions to safeguard our facility, including obtaining business interruption insurance, any future natural disaster, such as a hurricane, flood or fire, could significantly disrupt our operations and delay or prevent product shipment during the time required to repair, rebuild or replace our facility, which could be lengthy and result in significant expenses. Furthermore, the insurance coverage we maintain may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case or continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates and terms. In addition, the vendors that perform all of the faceting of our loose moissanite jewels are located in regions that are susceptible to tsunamis, flooding, and other natural disasters that may cause a disruption in our vendors' operations for sustained periods and the loss or damage of our work-in-process inventories located at such vendors' facilities. Damage or destruction that interrupts our ability to deliver our products could impair our relationships with our customers. Prolonged disruption of our services as a result of a natural disaster may result in product delivery delays, order cancellations, and loss of substantial revenue, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Sales of moissanite jewelry could be dependent upon the pricing of precious metals, which is beyond our control. Any increases in the market price of precious metals (primarily gold) could affect the pricing and sales of jewelry incorporating moissanite jewels, including jewelry manufactured by us. The majority of price increases in precious metals are passed on to the end consumer in the form of higher prices for finished jewelry. These higher prices could have a negative impact on the sell-through of moissanite jewelry at the retail level. From the beginning of 2006 through 2017, the price of gold has increased significantly, resulting in higher retail price points for gold jewelry. This has had a negative impact on both sales of moissanite jewelry and the jewelry industry as a whole.. Seasonality of our business may adversely affect our net sales and operating income. Sales in the retail jewelry industry are typically seasonal due to increased consumer purchases during the holiday season. Because historically we have primarily sold our loose moissanite jewels and finished jewelry featuring moissanite at wholesale pricing to distributors, manufacturers, and retailers, our sales to support the holiday season have largely taken place during the third and beginning of the fourth calendar quarters, depending on the sales channel and the level of advance planning and production our customers undertook. As sales of our finished jewelry featuring moissanite to retailers and directly to consumers increase, both in dollars and as a percentage of total sales, our results for the three months ending December 31 may depend upon the general level of retail sales during the holiday season as well as general economic conditions and other factors beyond our control. In anticipation of increased sales activities during the three months ending December 31, we may incur significant additional expenses, including higher inventory of finished jewelry in the second half of the calendar year.. 20. Table of Contents. On January 30, 2018, our Board of Directors approved a change in our fiscal year from a fiscal year beginning on January 1 and ending on December 31 of each year to a fiscal year beginning on July 1 and ending on June 30 of each year. This change to the fiscal year reporting cycle will begin July 1, 2018. In recent years, excluding one-time sales events, we have experienced a higher degree of seasonality in the three months ending December 31 than we have experienced in prior years primarily as a result of the holiday season sales to end consumers through our Online Channels segment and as a result of increased sales through our Traditional segment. Our quarterly results of operations may continue to fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including seasonal cycles, the timing of new product introductions, the timing of orders by our customers, and the mix of product sales demand, and these factors may significantly affect our results of operations in a given quarter.. Recent U.S. tax legislation may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Recently enacted U.S. tax legislation has significantly changed the U.S. federal income taxation of U.S. corporations, including by reducing the U.S. corporate income tax rate, limiting interest deductions, permitting immediate expensing of certain capital expenditures, and revising the rules governing net operating losses (which may adversely impact the value of our net deferred tax assets) and foreign tax credits. Many of these changes are effective immediately, without any transition periods or grandfathering for existing transactions. The legislation is unclear in many respects and could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, as well as interpretations and implementation regulations by the U.S. Department of the Treasury and Internal Revenue Service, any of which could materially affect the impacts of the legislation. In addition, it is unclear how these U.S. federal income tax changes will affect state and local taxation, which often uses federal taxable income as a starting point for computing state and local tax liabilities.. While some of the changes made by the tax legislation may adversely affect us in one or more reporting periods and prospectively, other changes may be beneficial on a going forward basis. We continue to work with our tax advisors to determine the full impact of this legislation on us. See Note 12, \"Income Taxes,\" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information about our deferred tax assets and our provisional analysis of the income tax effects of this new legislation.. If the e-commerce opportunity changes dramatically or if e-commerce technology or providers change their models, our results of operations may be adversely affected.  As we adopt e-commerce as one of our primary selling channels, our business model becomes more reliant on third-party platforms to achieve success. Should our products, product listings, or business not meet the requirements of certain third-party transactional channels such as marketplaces, comparison shopping engines, or social commerce sites, it may affect our ability to meet our revenue targets. Additionally, Amazon, eBay, Jet, Walmart.com, Gemvara, or other desirable e-commerce platforms may decide to make significant changes to their respective business models, policies, systems, or plans, and those changes could impair or inhibit our ability to sell our products through those channels. Further, a significant change in consumer online behavior or introduction of new or disruptive technology could adversely affect overall e-commerce trends and diminish the value of investments we have made in select online channels. Any of these results could cause a significant reduction in our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our products and brands and adversely affect our business. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions, to establish and protect our proprietary rights, all of which provide only limited protection. We had U.S. product and method patents for moissanite jewels, which expired in August 2015, under which we believed that we had broad, exclusive rights to manufacture, use, and sell moissanite jewels in the U.S. We had these same patents in 25 foreign jurisdictions primarily across Asia and Europe that expired in the third quarter of 2016, and will expire in Mexico in 2021. However, our patent expirations could enable competitors and other businesses to duplicate and market a similar product and enter the marketplace. Without patent protection, we must rely primarily on our branding strategy and the Supply Agreement under which Cree supplies SiC crystals exclusively to us, as well as confidentiality procedures, to protect our proprietary rights, which may or may not be sufficient. In addition, at the present time, we are dependent on Cree's technology for the production of SiC crystals. There can be no assurance that any patents issued to or licensed by or to us will provide any significant commercial protection, that we will have sufficient resources to protect our respective patents and proprietary rights, that any additional patents will be issued in the future, or that any existing or future patents will be upheld by a court should we seek to enforce our rights against an infringer. At this point, we cannot reasonably estimate the impact these patent expirations will have on our future results of operations.. 21. Table of Contents. The existence of valid patents does not prevent other companies from independently developing competing technologies. Existing producers of SiC crystals or others may refine existing processes for growing SiC crystals or develop new technologies for growing large single crystals of SiC or colorless SiC crystals in a manner that does not infringe any patents issued to or licensed by or to us. Accordingly, existing and potential competitors may be able to develop products that are competitive with or superior to our products, and such competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. In addition, we have certain trademarks and pending trademark applications that support our moissanite branding strategy, and we use certain brand names for which we do not currently have proprietary rights. The success of our growth strategy may depend on our continued ability to use our existing brand names in order to increase consumer awareness and further develop strong brands around our moissanite jewels and finished jewelry collections. We cannot assure that any future trademark or other registrations will be issued for pending or future applications or that we will be able to obtain licenses or other contractual rights to use brand names that may infringe the proprietary rights of third parties. We also cannot assure that any registered or unregistered trademarks or other intellectual property or contractual rights will be enforceable or provide adequate protection of our proprietary rights. Our inability to secure proprietary protection with respect to our brands could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. We also cannot be certain that our products and brand names do not or will not infringe valid patents, trademarks, and other intellectual property rights held by third parties. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to the intellectual property of others in the ordinary course of our business. Litigation to determine the validity of any third party's claims could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation is determined in our favor. In the event of an adverse result of any such litigation, we could be required to expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or to obtain licenses for, and pay royalties on the use of, the technology subject to the litigation. We have no assurance that we would be successful in such development or that any such license would be available on commercially reasonable terms.. A failure of our information technology, or IT, infrastructure or a failure to protect confidential information of our customers and our network against security breaches could adversely impact our business and operations. We rely upon the capacity, reliability, and security of our IT infrastructure and our ability to expand and continually update this infrastructure in response to the changing needs of our business related to the deployment, integration, and management of new technology. For example, we implemented new IT systems and payment gateways that support our Online Channels segment. As we implement and integrate new systems, as well as retire and de-integrate existing systems, the IT operating environment following such changes may not perform as expected. We also face the challenge of supporting our older systems and implementing necessary upgrades. If we experience a problem with the functioning of an important IT system or a security breach of our IT systems, the resulting disruptions could have an adverse effect on our business.. In addition, we and certain of our third-party vendors receive and store personal information associated with our sales operations and other aspects of our business. In connection with our e-commerce business, we rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to effect secure transmission of confidential information, including credit card numbers. Our disclosure controls and procedures address cybersecurity and include elements intended to ensure that there is an analysis of potential disclosure obligations arising from security breaches. We also maintain compliance programs to address the potential applicability of restrictions against trading while in possession of material, nonpublic information generally and in connection with a cybersecurity breach. The breakdown in existing controls and procedures around our cybersecurity environment may prevent us from detecting, reporting or responding to cyber incidents in a timely manner and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and value of our Company's stock. Despite our implementation of security measures, our IT systems and e-commerce business are vulnerable to damages from computer viruses, natural disasters, unauthorized access, cyber-attack, and other similar disruptions. An increasing number of websites and Internet companies have reported breaches of their security. Any such compromise of our security could damage our reputation, business, and brand and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, which could substantially harm our business and results of operations. In addition, anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations, damage our computers or those of our customers, or otherwise damage our reputation and business. These issues are likely to become more difficult as we expand the number of countries in which our e-commerce website operates. We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches.. 22. Table of Contents. For example, in 2016, the European Union, or EU, Parliament approved the new EU data protection legal framework known as the General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR. The GDPR will replace existing regulations and will become effective in May 2018, thereby extending the scope of EU data protection law to all non-EU companies processing data of EU residents. The GDPR contains numerous requirements and changes from existing EU law, including more robust obligations on data processors, greater rights for data subjects, and heavier documentation requirements for data protection compliance programs. The costs of compliance with, and other burdens and any penalties imposed by, such laws, regulations and policies could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.. We are subject to certain risks due to our international distribution channels and vendors. We currently have more than 15 international wholesale distributors covering portions of Canada, the UK, Western Europe, Australia and New Zealand, Southeast Asia, the Middle East, and China. In addition, we use certain companies based outside the U.S. to facet our moissanite jewels and to manufacture finished jewelry. Due to our reliance on development of foreign markets and use of foreign vendors, we are subject to the risks of conducting business outside of the U.S. These risks include the following:. ·    the adverse effects on U.S.-based companies operating in foreign markets that might result from war; terrorism; changes in diplomatic, trade, or business relationships; or other political, social, religious, or economic instability;. ·    the continuing adverse economic effects of any global financial crisis;. ·    unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements;. ·    delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses;. ·    tariffs and other trade barriers and restrictions;. ·    the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and other factors beyond our control;. ·    the potential difficulty of enforcing agreements with foreign customers and suppliers; and. ·    the complications related to collecting receivables through a foreign country's legal system.. Additionally, while all of our foreign transactions are denominated in U.S. dollars, foreign currency fluctuations could impact demand for our products or the ability of our foreign suppliers to continue to perform. Further, some of our foreign distributors operate relatively small businesses and may not have the financial stability to assure their continuing presence in their markets. There can be no assurance that the foregoing factors will not adversely affect our operations in the future or require us to modify our anticipated business practices.. Negative or inaccurate information on social media could adversely affect our brand and reputation. We are actively using various forms of digital and social media outreach to accomplish greater awareness of our brand and the value proposition we offer. These social media platforms and other forms of Internet-based communications allow access not only by us, but by any individual, to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons. Consumers value readily available information concerning goods that they have or plan to purchase; however, they may act on such information without further investigation or authentication. Many social media platforms, including those relating to recruiting and placement activities, immediately publish the content of their participants' posts, often without filters or checks on accuracy of the content posted. While we actively monitor social media sites, we may be unable to quickly and effectively respond to or correct inaccurate and/or unfavorable information posted on social media platforms.  Any such information may harm our reputation or brand, which could in turn materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. If we fail to evaluate, implement, and integrate strategic acquisition or disposition opportunities successfully, our business may suffer. From time to time we evaluate strategic opportunities available to us for product, technology, or business acquisitions or dispositions. If we choose to make acquisitions or dispositions, we face certain risks, such as failure of an acquired business to meet our performance expectations, failure to recognize cost savings from a disposition, diversion of management attention, retention of management and existing customers of our current and any acquired business, and difficulty in integrating or separating a business's operations, personnel, and financial and operating systems. We may not be able to successfully address these risks or any other problems that arise from future acquisitions or dispositions. Any failure to successfully evaluate strategic opportunities and address risks or other problems that arise related to any acquisition or disposition could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. 23. Table of Contents. Governmental regulation and oversight might adversely impact our operations. We are subject to governmental regulations in the manufacture and sale of moissanite jewels and finished jewelry. In particular, the FTC has issued regulations and guidelines governing the marketing of synthetic gemstones and other gemstones similar to diamond that require such gemstones to be clearly identified in any promotional or marketing materials. In addition, the precious metal in our finished jewelry may be subject to requirements, which vary by country and by state, such as hallmarking and alloy content. We may be under close scrutiny both by governmental agencies and by competitors in the gemstone industry, any of which may challenge our promotion and marketing of our moissanite jewels and finished jewelry products. While we have a policy to ensure compliance with applicable regulations, if our production or marketing of moissanite jewels and/or finished jewelry is challenged by governmental agencies or competitors, or if regulations are issued that restrict our ability to market our products, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. Some anti-takeover provisions of our charter documents may delay or prevent a takeover of our company. A number of provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws impact matters of corporate governance and the rights of shareholders. Certain of these provisions have an anti-takeover effect and may delay or prevent takeover attempts not first approved by our Board of Directors (including takeovers that certain shareholders may deem to be in their best interests). These provisions also could delay or frustrate the removal of incumbent directors or the assumption of control by shareholders. We believe that these provisions are appropriate to protect our interests and the interests of all of our shareholders."
