[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. The occurrence of any of the risks, uncertainties and other factors described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report and the other documents we file with the SEC could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price, and could cause our future business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price to differ materially from our historical results and the results contemplated by any forward-looking statements we may make herein, in any other document we file with the SEC, or in any press release or other written or oral statement we may make.  You should carefully consider all of these risks and the other information in this Annual Report and the other documents we file with the SEC before making any investment decision with respect to our securities.  The risks described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report are not the only ones we face.  Additional risks we are not presently aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business, financial condition and results of operations or cause our stock price to decline.. Risks Related to Our Business. Our business is subject to intense competition.. Merchandise bearing our brand names and goods that are carried by Flip Flop Shops retail stores are subject to intense competition.  Competing brands with respect to our Cherokee brand include Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger, and private label brands (developed by retailers) such as Faded Glory, Arizona and Route 66, and competing brands with respect to the Hi-Tec and Magnum brands include Columbia, Merrell, Keen, North Face, Timberland, Bates, Wolverine and other private label brands.  Our other brands also face competition from these and other numerous brands.  Factors that shape the competitive environment for our brands include quality of garment or accessory construction and design, brand name, style and color selection, price, fashion and other trends, avenue of purchase (including in stores and online), and the manufacturer's ability to respond quickly to retailer and consumer demand.. Our business plan focuses on creating strategic alliances with major retailers and wholesalers for their sale of products bearing our brands through the licensing of our trademarks directly to retailers, engaging wholesalers to manufacture and distribute products bearing our brands and sell these products to retailers, and entering into franchise relationships with Flip Flop Shops retail store owners.  Therefore, our degree of success is dependent on the strength of our brands, consumer acceptance of our brands, our licensees' ability to design, manufacture and sell products bearing. 10. Table of Contents. our brands and our franchisees' ability to sell products in their stores, all of which is dependent on the ability of us, our licensees and our franchisees to respond to ever-changing consumer demands.  We cannot control the level of consumer acceptance of our brands and changing preferences and trends may lead customers to purchase other products.  Further, we cannot control the level of resources that our licensees or franchisees commit to supporting our brands, and our licensees may choose to support products bearing other brands to the detriment of our brands because our agreements generally do not prevent them from licensing or selling other products, including products bearing competing brands.. In addition, we compete with companies that own other brands and trademarks, as these companies could enter into similar licensing arrangements with retailers and wholesalers in the United States and internationally.  These arrangements could be with our existing retail and wholesale partners, thereby competing with us for consumer attention and limited floor or rack space in the same stores in which our branded products are sold, and vying with us for the time and resources of the retailers and wholesale licensees that manufacture and distribute our products.  These companies may be able to respond more quickly to changes in retailer, wholesaler and consumer preferences and devote greater resources to brand acquisition, development and marketing.  We may not be able to compete effectively against these companies.. If we or our brands are unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors, we may be unable to sustain or increase demand for products bearing our brands, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, prospects, performance and financial condition.. We are subject to the risks of the retail business that apply to retailers selling our products.. There are numerous risks and other factors applicable to the businesses of retailers (including our DTR licensees and franchisees and retailers to which our wholesale licensees distribute products) that can impact the sale of products that bear our brands and, with respect to our franchisees, the sale of products bearing other brands that are sold in their stores.  Any decline in sales of our branded products by retailers could adversely affect our revenues.. Factors that may adversely affect retailers and their sales of products include, among others: (i) consumer preferences regarding fashion trends and styles, which can be region-dependent and subject to rapid and significant fluctuations; (ii) consumer preferences regarding where to shop; (iii) the growth of online shopping and the ability of a retailer to market and sell products through these avenues; (iv) fluctuating retail prices; (v) the reputation of or general consumer perceptions about the retailers that sell our brands; (vi) security breaches or other cybersecurity incidents; (vii) shifts in the seasonality of shopping patterns; (viii) weather, environmental or other conditions that may impact consumer shopping activity; (ix) changes in the availability or cost of capital in light of a retailer's financial condition, capital requirements and other factors; (x) labor strikes or other interruptions that impact supply chains and transport vendors; (xi) the impact of excesses or shortages of retail or manufacturing capacity; (xii) changes in the cost of accepting various payment methods and changes in the rate of utilization of these payment methods; (xiii) material acquisitions or dispositions; (xiv) investments in new business strategies; (xv) the success or failure of significant new business ventures or technologies; (xvi) general business and operational risks, including, among others, the ability to obtain and maintain desirable store locations, litigation risks, departures of key personnel or other employee matters; (xvii) actions taken or omitted to be taken by legislative, regulatory, judicial and other government authorities and officials; (xviii) natural disasters, the outbreak of war, acts of terrorism or other significant national or international events; and (xviv) the other risks discussed in these risk factors.. We have incurred a significant amount of indebtedness, and our level of indebtedness and restrictions under our indebtedness could adversely affect our operations and liquidity.. We entered into a credit facility with Cerberus Business Finance, LLC (\"Cerberus\") in December 2016.  As of February 3, 2018, $49.5 million in principal amount was outstanding under our term loan and revolving credit facility with Cerberus.  Principal repayments are required quarterly under the Cerberus credit facility, and any remaining outstanding indebtedness is due in December 2021.. The Cerberus credit facility imposes various restrictions and covenants regarding the operation of our business, including covenants that require us to obtain Cerberus's consent before we can, among other things and subject to certain. 11. Table of Contents. limited exceptions: (i) incur additional indebtedness or additional liens on our property; (ii) consummate acquisitions, dispositions, mergers or consolidations; (iii) make any change in the nature of our business; (iv) enter into transactions with our affiliates; or (v) repurchase or redeem any outstanding shares of our common stock or pay dividends or other distributions, other than stock dividends, to our stockholders.  The Cerberus credit facility also imposes financial covenants that set financial standards we are required to maintain.  Further, as collateral for the Cerberus credit facility, we have granted a first priority security interest in favor of Cerberus in substantially all of our assets (including trademarks), and our indebtedness is guaranteed by our subsidiaries.  If an event of default occurs under the credit facility that is not forborne, cured or waived in accordance with the terms of the credit facility, Cerberus has the right to terminate its obligations under the credit facility, accelerate the payment on any unpaid balance of the credit facility and exercise any other rights it may have, including foreclosing on our assets that serve as collateral for the loan.. As of the end of the first and second quarters of Fiscal 2018, we had failed to comply with certain of the financial and other covenants in the Cerberus credit facility.  Although Cerberus agreed to forbear from exercising its rights or remedies under the Cerberus credit facility with respect to these events of default for specified periods and ultimately agreed to waive these events of default, Cerberus may not agree to forbear or waive any future failure by us to fully comply with the terms of the credit facility.  For instance, based on our current forecasts, we anticipate that we will violate certain of our financial covenants in the Cerberus credit facility (specifically, our covenant to maintain certain liquidity levels) within the next twelve months without an infusion of cash or an increase in borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility, which has caused an explanatory paragraph to be included in the report of our independent registered public accounting firm contained in this Annual Report describing an uncertainty about our ability to continue as a going concern.  The inclusion of this explanatory paragraph itself results in noncompliance with covenants in the Cerberus credit facility, and as a result, we are not in compliance with this credit facility as of the date of this Annual Report.  Additionally, in connection with Cerberus' agreement to waive our prior events of default, Cerberus required that the credit facility be amended to, among other things, add new financial and other covenants with which we must comply, including maintaining certain liquidity levels, obtaining specified amounts of proceeds from equity financings and arranging for and effecting purchases by one or more third parties of participation interests in the credit facility, and Cerberus could again impose additional or more burdensome covenants or requirements in connection with any amendment or waiver we may be able to obtain related to our current and potential future compliance failures.  These failures to comply with the Cerberus credit facility subject us to significant risks, including Cerberus's ability to exercise any of its rights upon the occurrence of an event of default.  If any of these rights were to be exercised, our financial condition and liquidity would be materially adversely affected and our ability to continue operations could be materially jeopardized.  Further, even if a waiver or amendment with respect to any future event of default could be obtained, we may be required to comply with more new covenants or other requirements as a condition to the waiver or amendment, which could impose burdensome obligations on our operations and financial condition that we may not be able to satisfy.. We may seek to refinance all or a portion of our outstanding indebtedness in the future.  Any such refinancing would depend on the capital markets and the state of our industry, business and financial condition at the time, which could affect our ability to obtain attractive refinance terms if or when desired or at all.. The amount of our outstanding indebtedness, which is substantial, could have an adverse effect on our operations and liquidity, including by, among other things: (i) making it more difficult for us to pay or refinance our debts as they become due during adverse economic and industry conditions, because we may not have sufficient cash flows to make our scheduled debt payments; (ii) causing us to use a larger portion of our cash flows to fund interest and principal payments, thereby reducing the availability of cash to fund working capital, product development, capital expenditures and other business activities; (iii) making it more difficult for us to take advantage of significant business opportunities, such as acquisition opportunities or other strategic transactions, and to react to changes in market or industry conditions; and (iv) limiting our ability to borrow additional monies in the future to fund the activities and expenditures described above and for other general corporate purposes as and when needed, which could force us to suspend, delay or curtail business prospects, strategies or operations.. 12. Table of Contents. Our future capital needs may be uncertain and we may need to raise additional funds in the future, but such funds may not be available when needed,  on acceptable terms or at all.. Our capital requirements in future periods may be uncertain and could depend on many factors, including, among others: (i) acceptance of, and demand for, our brands; (ii) the extent to which we invest in our existing brand portfolio or any new brands; (iii) the number and timing of our acquisitions and other strategic transactions; (iv) the costs of developing new brands; (v) the costs associated with our efforts to expand our business; and (vi) the costs of litigation and enforcement activities to protect and defend our trademarks.  We may need to raise additional funds to meet our capital requirements.  For example, we expect to seek an increase in our borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility with Cerberus or additional liquidity from other lenders in light of our current and forecasted compliance failures under the credit facility and the substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern.  However, these or any other necessary funds may not be available when needed, on favorable terms or at all.  If we issue equity or convertible debt securities to raise additional funds, as we did with our public offering of our common stock in December 2016 and our private placement equity financing with certain of our directors, officers and large stockholders in August 2017, our existing stockholders would experience dilution and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders.  If we incur additional debt to raise funds, as we did with our Cerberus credit facility established into in December 2016, we may become over-leveraged and we may become subject to restrictive financial or operating covenants that could limit our ability to operate our business and expose us to significant risks in the event of any compliance failure.  Moreover, in light of our current level of indebtedness, which is significant, and our current noncompliance with our indebtedness with Cerberus, additional debt or equity capital may not be available on terms we consider advantageous or favorable to us.  In addition, we may seek equity and/or debt financing from sources that expose us to additional risks or negative effects, such as, for example, obtaining funding from related parties in transactions that create conflicts of interest between us and the related party, as we did with our private placement in August 2017 mentioned above and our arrangement of purchases by certain of our directors, officers and large stockholders of participation interests in our Cerberus credit facility in December 2017.  Further, we may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital-raising transactions, including investment banking, legal and accounting fees, printing and distribution expenses and other costs.. Moreover, our late filing of our annual report for Fiscal 2017 and our quarterly report for the first quarter of Fiscal 2018 renders us ineligible to register the offer and sale of our securities using a registration statement on Form S-3, and we will not regain such eligibility until we have timely filed all of our periodic reports with the SEC for 12 consecutive calendar months.  We do not know when we will meet this requirement, which depends on our ability to file our periodic reports on a timely basis in the future.  If we seek to raise capital through an offering of our securities while we remain ineligible to use Form S-3, our inability to use this form could limit our financing alternatives, reduce our ability to access capital in a timely manner and increase our transaction costs, any of which could make it more difficult to execute any such transaction successfully and could have an adverse effect on our prospects and financial condition.. If we cannot raise funds when needed, on acceptable terms or at all, we may not be able to develop or enhance our brand portfolio or marketing initiatives, execute our business plan, take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures or customer requirements.  Any of these outcomes may materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our wholesale licensing arrangements subject us to a number of risks.. We have recently entered into several new wholesale arrangements in connection with a significant shift in our business strategy, from our historical focus on a DTR licensing model for all of our brands to a substantially greater focus on wholesale licensing for many of our key brands.  Although we believe our new wholesale licensing arrangements may have certain benefits, these arrangements are subject to a number of risks and our beliefs could turn out to be wrong.  If any of these risks occur and we do not achieve the intended or expected benefits of our strategy shift toward wholesale arrangements, our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.  Moreover, we have less experience with the wholesale licensing model than the DTR licensing model and we may find it difficult to develop reliable forecasts and expectations regarding royalty revenues from these arrangements, either of which could harm our business and our operating results.. 13. Table of Contents. The terms of our wholesale licensing arrangements differ in certain important ways from the terms of our DTR licensing arrangements.  For instance, the minimum annual royalty obligations under our wholesale licensing arrangements are significantly smaller than the minimum annual royalty obligations in some of our DTR licensing arrangements, including our former license agreements with Target and Kohl's.  Also, our new wholesale license agreements for the Cherokee brand and the Hi-Tec and Magnum brands are not subject to reducing royalty rates based on cumulative sales levels, as was our former license agreement with Target for the Cherokee brand.  These different terms could have a material impact on our performance.  For example, the consistent royalty rates of these wholesale licensing arrangements could cause our performance and cash flows to be more strongly influenced by the seasonality of the retail business and thus subject to more material fluctuations between periods, and the lower minimum royalty obligations could cause our aggregate annual royalty revenues to decline if retail sales volume for our brands decreases and we become dependent on minimum royalty obligations.  These effects on our performance could become increasingly significant in future periods, to the extent our new wholesale licensees gain traction over time with new retailers and consumer bases and the proportion of our royalty revenues from these licensees increases, or if we pursue similar wholesale arrangements in the future.. Additionally, in wholesale licensing arrangements, we have limited ability to control various aspects of the manufacturing process, including access to raw materials, the timing of delivery of finished products, the quality of finished products and manufacturing costs.  Our wholesale licensees may not be able to produce finished products of the quality or in the quantities that are sufficient to meet retailer and consumer demand in a timely manner or at all, which could result in an inability to generate revenues from any such products and loss of confidence in our brands.  Interruptions or delays in the manufacturing process can occur at any time and for a variety of reasons, many of which are outside our control, including, among others, unforecasted spikes in demand, shortages of raw materials, labor disputes, backlogs, insufficient devotion of resources to the manufacture of products bearing our brands, or problems that may arise with manufacturing operations or facilities or our wholesale licensees' businesses generally.  On the other hand, our wholesale licensees may produce inventory in excess of retailer and consumer demand, in which case over-supply may cause retail prices of products bearing our brands to decline.  Further, we compete with other brand owners for the time and resources of our wholesale licensees, which could curtail or limit our ability to engage new or maintain relationships with existing wholesale licensee partners on acceptable terms or at all.  Further, the unplanned loss of any of our wholesale licensees could lead to inadequate market coverage for retail sales of products bearing our brands, create negative impressions of us and our brands with retailers and consumers, and add downward pricing pressure on products bearing our brands as a result of liquidating a former wholesaler's inventory of such products.  The occurrence of any of these risks could adversely impact our reputation, performance and financial condition.. Our acquisition of the Hi-Tec and Magnum brands and conversion of these brands to a new business model is subject to significant risks.. We recently acquired the Hi-Tec, Magnum and other associated footwear brands and completed our conversion of these brands from their former distribution model to a brand licensing model that aligns with our operations.  Although we believe the acquisition of these brands and our conversion of their selling model may have certain benefits, the acquisition and conversion of these brands are subject to a number of risks and our beliefs could turn out to be wrong.  If any of these risks occur and we do not achieve the intended or expected benefits of our acquisition and conversion of these brands, we may never generate sufficient revenues from these brands to recoup their costs and our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. The Hi-Tec, Magnum and other associated footwear brands have not historically been marketed, distributed or sold under a brand licensing model, and it is uncertain whether this model will be effective for these brands.  As a result, we may not be able to reliably forecast or predict the impact of these brands on our revenues or other aspects of our results of operations until they have been operated under a licensing model for some time.  Further, the roles and responsibilities of the various parties in the distribution chain for these products, including our Company, as the licensor of the brands and overseer of high-level marketing strategies, the wholesalers we engage to manufacture and distribute products bearing these brands, and the retailers to which the wholesalers sell these products for resale to consumers, are different as a result of our conversion of these brands to a brand licensing model.  The wholesalers we have engaged for these brands to date, which consist primarily of former operating partners and distributors of these brands, may not be familiar with or accustomed to a brand licensing model and may not be successful in converting their distribution efforts. 14. Table of Contents. to align with this model.  Further, as we make efforts to expand these brands to new geographic and consumer markets, we expect to pursue new arrangements with additional wholesale licensees for these brands.  However, any such efforts are subject to risks, including risks associated with engaging new licensees, which may not be willing or able to operate within a brand licensing model or generate material revenues to us under this model, and risks associated with expanding to new markets, which may consist of retailers and consumers who are unfamiliar with or unwilling to accept our brands.  Any such outcome could result in failures to sell products bearing these brands in volumes and at prices that generate expected revenue levels to us.. We rely on the accuracy of our licensees' and franchisees' sales reports for reporting and collecting our royalty revenues, and if these reports are untimely or incorrect, our revenues could be delayed or inaccurately reported or collected. Most of our royalty revenues are generated from retailers that manufacture and sell products bearing our brands in their stores and on their websites, and from wholesalers that manufacture and distribute products bearing our brands and sell these products to retailers.  In addition, we generate royalty revenues from franchisees of the Flip Flop Shops brand based on sales of products in their stores.  Under our existing agreements, our licensees and franchisees pay us fees based on their sales of products or, for some of our wholesale licensees, based on their manufacturing costs.  As a result, we rely on our licensees and franchisees to accurately report their sales or costs in collecting our license and franchise fees, preparing our financial reports, projections and budgets and directing our sales and marketing efforts.  Although all of our agreements permit us to audit our licensees and franchisees, if any of them understate their sales or costs, we may not collect and recognize the royalty revenues to which we are entitled on a timely basis or at all, or we may endure significant expense to obtain compliance.. We utilize various licensing and selling models in our operations, and our success is dependent on our ability to manage these different models.. In addition to our historical focus on a DTR licensing model,  we are shifting our focus for some of our key brands to a wholesale licensing strategy and we use a franchising model for our Flip Flop Shops brand.  Although we believe these various licensing and selling models could have certain benefits, these models could themselves be unsuccessful and our beliefs could turn out to be wrong.  Moreover, our pursuit of these different models could divert management's attention and other resources, including time and capital, from our historical focus on a DTR licensing strategy.  As a result, our future success depends in part on our ability to successfully manage these multiple licensing and selling models.  If we are unable to do so, our performance, financial condition and prospects could be materially harmed.. Our business continues to depend in part on the success of our Direct to Retail licensing model.. Our DTR licensing model has been our historical focus and it continues to be an important part of our operations.  We believe the DTR licensing model has become more widely accepted by many retailers worldwide, and our business plan is based in part on the success of this model with our existing retail licensees and with new retailers we may solicit to license our brands under this model in new territories and additional product categories.  However, our beliefs regarding the DTR licensing model may turn out to be wrong, and it may not achieve or sustain increased acceptance or its use by retailers could decline.  If our existing or potential future retail licensees do not perceive the DTR licensing model to be advantageous to them, which could occur for a variety of reasons, they may move away from this model and pursue alternatives, such as purchasing from wholesalers or manufacturing private label products.  In that event, this aspect of our business may prove unsuccessful and our financial condition and performance could suffer material adverse effects.. Our business has historically been largely dependent on royalties from Target and Kohl's, which no longer sell products bearing any of our brands.. In the past, Target has had exclusive rights to sell Cherokee and Liz Lange branded products for all product categories in the United States, and royalty revenues from Target's sales of these products accounted for a large portion of our revenues during Fiscal 2017, Fiscal 2016 and other historical periods.  In addition, Kohl's has had exclusive rights. 15. Table of Contents. to sell Hawk Signature and Tony Hawk branded products in all product categories in the United States, and royalty revenues from Kohl's' sales of these products also accounted for a significant portion of our revenues during Fiscal 2018, Fiscal 2017, Fiscal 2016 and other historical periods.  However, our license agreements with Target covering sales of Cherokee branded products in the school uniforms category and Liz Lange products expired on January 31, 2018, our license agreement with Target covering sales of Cherokee branded products in all other categories expired on January 31, 2017, and our license agreement with Kohl's covering sales of Hawk Signature and Tony Hawk branded products expired on January 31, 2018.  As a result, after January 31, 2018, Target and Kohl's no longer sell products bearing any of our brands.. Replacing the royalty revenues received from Target and Kohl's is a significant challenge, due in part to the large size of these former licensees' businesses and the significant amount of royalty revenues they have historically contributed to our results, as well as the difficulties of establishing relationships with new licensees generally, as they may have no prior experience with us or our brands and they may need to generate demand for our brands among entirely new retailer and consumer bases, which could take many years and involve significant costs.  Even though it is a normal part of our business to replace licensees whose arrangements with us have expired without renewal or have otherwise terminated, and even though we have entered into several new wholesale licensing agreements that are intended to replace, over time, the royalty revenue generated by our former license agreements with Target and Kohl's, the royalty revenues we receive from the new licensees may not in the near term, or ever, reach or exceed the royalty revenues earned under the previous relationships.    As a result, the expiration of these license agreements has had an adverse effect on our royalty revenues for these brands and our overall business and results in Fiscal 2018, and this effect could continue or worsen in future periods as the transition to our new licensees for these brands remains ongoing.  Moreover, as with all licensee replacements, the royalty revenues we receive from the new licensees may not in the near term, or ever, reach or exceed the royalty revenues earned under the previous relationships, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations over the long term.. The failure of our licensees or franchisees to sell products that generate royalties to us, to pay us royalties pursuant to their license or franchise agreements with us, or to renew these agreements could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our revenues are dependent on royalty payments made to us under our license and franchise agreements.  Although some of our license agreements guarantee a minimum royalty payment to us each year, the failure of our licensees or franchisees to satisfy these or the other obligations under their agreements with us, their decision to not renew their agreements with us or their inability to grow or maintain their sales of products bearing our brands or their businesses generally could cause our revenues to decline.  These events or circumstances could occur for a variety of reasons, many of which are outside our control, including business and operational risks that impact our licensees' and franchisees' ability to make payments and sell products generally, such as obtaining and maintaining desirable store locations and consumer acceptance and presence; retaining key personnel, including the specific individuals who work on sales and marketing for products bearing our brands; and liquidity and capital resources risks.  Further, while we historically have been dependent on our relationships with Target and Kohl's, the failure by any of our other key licensees or franchisees or the concurrent failure by several licensees or franchisees to meet their financial obligations to us or to renew their respective license or franchise agreements with us could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and our financial condition.. Our franchise business exposes us to numerous risks.. In connection with our acquisition of the Flip Flop Shops brand in October 2015, we acquired, and became the franchisor under, a number of franchise agreements with franchisees of this brand.  Many of these franchisees maintain one or more Flip Flop Shops retail stores located across the globe, including in the United States, Canada, the Caribbean, the Middle East and South Africa.  This Flip Flop Shops franchise business exposes us to a variety of risks, including, among others, that: (i) we may not be able to find capable and experienced franchisees who can implement the Flip Flop Shops brand concept and strategies or sell merchandise and operate stores in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements; (ii) even if we are able to attract capable franchise owners, these franchisees may not be able to open new Flip Flop Shops retail stores in a timely manner, due to inabilities to secure desirable site locations, construct and develop new store locations or other factors, or may not be able to manage and maintain the stores once opened, due to. 16. Table of Contents. inabilities to obtain adequate financing, attract qualified operating personnel or other factors; (iii) the third-party brands that are sold at Flip Flop Shops stores could decline in popularity or decide to stop selling their merchandise at some or all Flip Flop Shops store locations; (iv) neighborhood or economic conditions or other demographic patterns where existing or new Flip Flop Shops stores are located could decline or otherwise change in a negative way; and (v) our franchise business is subject to complex and varying franchise laws and regulations imposed by the U.S. federal and state and foreign jurisdictions in which we operate, including regulation by the FTC, and we may need to devote significant costs and other resources to comply with these laws and regulations and we may be subject to various penalties, including monetary fines or other sanctions, if we fail to comply with these laws and regulations.  If any of these risks were to materialize, the reputation of the Flip Flop Shops brand and our other brands could suffer, sales volume at one or more Flip Flop Shops store locations could decline, existing store locations may close or new store locations may fail to open at expected rates or at all, or our franchise revenues relating to this brand could be limited, curtailed or reduced, any of which could harm our performance and prospects.. Our business may be negatively impacted by general economic conditions.. Our performance is subject to worldwide economic conditions and the corresponding impact on levels of consumer spending, which may affect our licensees' and franchisees' retail sales.  It is difficult to predict future levels of consumer spending, and any such predictions are inherently uncertain.  Many factors affect the level of consumer spending in the industry in which we operate, including, among others, prevailing economic conditions; levels of employment, salaries and wage rates; energy costs; interest rates; the availability of consumer credit; tax rates; and consumer confidence in future economic conditions.  Further, our industry is heavily influenced by general economic cycles, as purchases of apparel, footwear, accessories and home products tend to decline in periods of economic uncertainty, slowdown or recession because disposable income typically declines during these periods.  As a result, the risks associated with our business are generally more acute in these periods.  For instance, general uncertainty in U.S. economic, political, regulatory, and market conditions has increased following the results of the 2016 U.S. presidential election due to the unpredictability of the policies and direction of the current administration, and these uncertainties may result in decreased confidence in the U.S. or global economy and decreased levels of consumer spending.  In addition to decreased consumer spending generally, periods of uncertainty, slowdown or recession may be accompanied by decreased demand for, or additional downward pricing pressure on, the products carrying our brands.  Accordingly, any prolonged economic slowdown, a lengthy or severe recession or any other negative trend in the U.S. or global economy would likely have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects.. We are subject to additional risks associated with the international scope of our operations.. Many of our licensees and franchisees are located outside the United States, and we aim to expand our international revenues. In addition, our business associated with our Hi-Tec family of footwear brands is managed and operated by our Dutch subsidiary.. We face numerous risks in doing business outside the United States, including, among others: (i) our general lack of experience operating foreign subsidiaries; (ii) unusual, unfamiliar or burdensome foreign laws or regulatory requirements, including tax, labor, contract, intellectual property protection and other laws, and unexpected changes to these laws or requirements; (iii) difficulties complying with the laws of multiple jurisdictions; (iv) uncertainties in some jurisdictions related to developing legal and regulatory systems and standards for economic and business activities, property ownership and the application of contract rights; (v) tariffs, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, trade embargos, and other trade barriers, about which there is increased uncertainty following the results of the 2016 U.S. presidential election and the trade policies of the current administration, including withdrawal from the Trans-Pacific Partnership and proposed revision to the North American Free Trade Agreement; (vi) difficulties attracting and retaining qualified personnel to conduct our foreign operations or manage our foreign licensees and franchisees; (vii) challenges relating to labor and employment matters, including differing employment practices and requirements regarding health, safety and other working conditions in foreign jurisdictions; (viii) competition from foreign companies; (ix) longer accounts receivable collection cycles and difficulties collecting accounts receivable from international licensees and franchisees; (x) less effective and less predictable protection and enforcement of our intellectual property rights in some jurisdictions; (xi) changes in the political or economic condition of a specific country. 17. Table of Contents. or region, particularly in emerging markets; (xii) potentially adverse tax consequences from the several U.S. and foreign jurisdictions in which we are subject to taxation; and (xiii) cultural differences in the conduct of business.  Any one or more of these factors could cause our international revenues to decline or could cause us to fail to execute on our business strategy involving international expansion.  In addition, our business practices in international markets are subject to the requirements of the FCPA and applicable foreign anti-bribery laws, any violation of which could subject us to significant fines, criminal sanctions and other penalties.. Our international royalty revenues are typically denominated in U.S. dollars.  However, because our international licensees and franchisees operate in other currencies, fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to these foreign currencies have an impact on our royalty revenues, which could materially affect our results of operations and cash flows.  The primary foreign currencies in which our licensees operate are the Euro, the Great British Pound, the Mexican Peso, the South African Rand, the Japanese Yen, the Chinese Yuan, the Indian Rupee and the Canadian Dollar.  We do not currently engage in currency hedging activities to limit the risk of exchange rate fluctuations.. Some of our licensees have contracts with government entities that are subject to unique risks.. Some of our licensees for our Hi-Tec family of footwear brands have, and expect to maintain, long-term contracts with various foreign government entities.  In addition to normal business risks, including the other risks discussed in these risk factors, our licensees' contracts with government entities are often subject to unique risks, some of which are beyond our or their control.  For instance, long-term government contracts and related orders are subject to cancellation if adequate appropriations for subsequent performance periods are not made.  As a result, the termination of funding for a government program supporting any of our licensees' government contracts could result in a loss of anticipated future revenues from that contract, which could have a negative impact on our operations because our royalty revenues from the licensee attributable to the government contract would also cease.  In periods of global or local political tension or unrest or decreased spending, these risks could be amplified.  In addition, government entities are often able to modify, curtail or terminate contracts at their convenience and without prior notice and would only be required to pay for work completed and commitments made at the time of the termination.  Any such modification, curtailment or termination of significant government contracts products bearing our Hi-Tec family of footwear brands could have a material adverse effect on our licensees' sales of these products, which in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our business and the success of our products could be harmed if we are unable to maintain the strength of our brands.. Our success is dependent on the strength of our brands.  If we are unable to timely and appropriately respond to changes to consumer preferences and demands, which are subject to significant fluctuations, the strength of our brands may be impaired.  Even if we do react timely and appropriately to these changes, consumers may still consider one or more of our brands to be outdated or associated with styles that are no longer popular.  In the past, many companies in our industry have experienced periods of rapid growth in sales and revenues followed by periods of declining sales and losses.  Our business may be similarly affected.. We are dependent on our intellectual property rights, especially our trademarks, and we may not be able to successfully protect our rights or we may become involved in costly legal proceedings relating to these rights or the intellectual property rights of third parties.. Our trademarks are vital to our business.  We hold various trademarks for our brand names, which are registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office.  We also hold trademarks or trademark applications for our brand names with similar government agencies in a number of other countries, although the laws of many countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States and, as a result, adequate protection in these jurisdictions may be unavailable or limited in spite of our efforts to safeguard these rights.  In addition, our efforts to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights might not prevent imitation of our brands or products bearing our brands, other infringement of our rights, challenges to our intellectual property ownership, the loss of license or franchise revenues or other negative effects.  Further, any insufficiency in the protection of our trademarks and other intellectual property rights could reduce the value of our brands, which could limit the. 18. Table of Contents. ability of our licensees and franchisees to effectively compete for market share.  If any of these events were to occur, our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be materially harmed.. In addition, in the future, we may decide to assert infringement claims against third parties, and one or more parties may assert infringement claims against us.  Any resulting litigation could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our management and other personnel, whether or not such litigation is determined in our favor.  Further, any adverse ruling in any such matter could reduce the value of our intellectual property assets and our licenses, which could result in limitations on our ability to market and license our brands and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may become involved in other litigation or government or administrative proceedings that may materially affect us.. From time to time, we may become involved in various legal proceedings relating to matters incidental to the ordinary course of our business, including commercial, employment, class action and other litigation and claims.  We may also be the subject of government and other regulatory investigations, audits and proceedings, including in connection with any claim of our violation of the laws, rules and regulations applicable to our business, such as federal, state and foreign franchise laws, anti-bribery laws and work safety and labor laws, among others.  These matters can be time-consuming, divert management's attention and resources and result in significant legal and other expenses.  Furthermore, because litigation and administrative or government proceedings are inherently unpredictable, any of these proceedings could result in unfavorable outcomes, which could include monetary damages or fines and other sanctions.  Any such result could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. We are dependent on our key management and other personnel.. Our success is highly dependent on the continued services of our key executives, including of Henry Stupp, our Chief Executive Officer and a member of our board of directors.  We have a relatively small number of employees, and the leadership and experience of Mr. Stupp and our other executives and key employees are important to the successful implementation of our business and marketing strategies.  We do not carry key person life insurance covering any of our executives or other employees.  The loss of the services of Mr. Stupp or our other executives or key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. We may encounter risks and difficulties in connection with acquisitions or other strategic transactions, and we may not realize the expected benefits of these transactions.. We regularly evaluate opportunities to acquire or represent new brands, and we have completed several such acquisitions during the past several years.  We expect to continue to consider opportunities to acquire or make investments in other brands or to engage in other strategic transactions that could enhance our portfolio or enable us to expand to new markets.  Our experience integrating acquired assets and businesses is limited, and we may not be successful in realizing the expected benefits of any acquisition we may pursue.  Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to manage an expanding portfolio of brands, which could involve significantly increased costs and pose substantial challenges for management.. Acquisitions and other strategic transactions can involve numerous risks and difficulties, including, among others: (i) challenges assimilating new brands or other assets into our business and our brand licensing model; (ii) problems maintaining and enforcing standards, procedures, controls, policies and information systems; (iii) difficulties and costs in combining the operations and personnel of an acquired business with our operations and personnel, including any failure to retain key employees, customers, vendors, manufacturers or other service providers or partners of an acquired business, any failure to convert and integrate acquired assets into our brand licensing business model, and challenges forecasting revenues and expenses for newly acquired brands or businesses; (iv) significant or unanticipated costs associated with an acquisition, including incurrence of contingent liabilities, amortization charges associated with acquired assets, write-offs of goodwill or intangible assets, capital expenditures and accounting, legal and other transaction expenses; (v) any inability to realize the intended or expected synergies or other benefits of an acquisition or transaction, particularly if our assumptions about sales, revenues, operating expenses and costs of acquired. 19. Table of Contents. assets or businesses turn out to be wrong; (vi) diversion of management's attention from our existing brand portfolio; (vii) adverse effects on existing business relationships; (viii) risks associated with foreign acquisitions or otherwise entering new geographic or customer markets, including regional differences in consumer preferences, branding standards and the general conduct of business, less effective and less predictable protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in some foreign jurisdictions and the other risks related to doing business outside the United States discussed elsewhere in these risk factors; and (ix) risks associated with new types of business arrangements in which we have no or limited prior experience.  Accordingly, our recent acquisitions and any future strategic transactions we pursue may not result in the anticipated benefits and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. In addition, future acquisitions may require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available when needed, on favorable terms or at all.  If we seek to finance future acquisitions or other strategic transactions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities or by incurring other types of indebtedness, we may experience the risks associated with these transactions that are described elsewhere in these risk factors.. Our strategic and marketing initiatives may not be successful.. We have invested significant funds and management time in furtherance of our global strategic and marketing initiatives, which are designed to strengthen our brands, assist our licensees in generating increased sales of products bearing our brands and build value for our stockholders over the long term.  We expect to continue and, in some cases, expand these initiatives in future periods.  While we are hopeful that our efforts in executing these initiatives will grow our business and build stockholder value, we may not be successful in doing so and these initiatives may not result in the intended or expected benefits.  Any failure by us to execute our strategic initiatives, or the failure of these initiatives to cause our revenues to grow, could have a materially adverse impact on our operating results and financial performance.. We rely on our information technology systems, and our business and operations could suffer in the event of cybersecurity breaches or other system failures.. We, as well as our licensees and franchisees, rely on various information technology systems to manage our respective operations.  Our reliance on these systems exposes us to inherent costs and risks, including the time and capital resources required to maintain, upgrade, replace or otherwise change these systems or integrate new systems as and when needed, as well as the risks associated with any failure of these systems, which could result from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication or electrical failures.  Despite the implementation of security measures, our information technology systems and those of our licensees and franchisees are vulnerable to failures or other damage from these or other causes.  Although we have not experienced any material cybersecurity or system failure, accident or breach, some of our current and former licensees have experienced such events in the past.  If such an event were to occur to our systems, it could result in a material disruption of our operations and internal controls and processes; substantial costs to rectify or correct the failure, if correction is possible; significant demands on management time; loss of or damage to our data or applications; inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information; or the incurrence of other material liabilities.  If such an event were to occur to our licensees' or franchisees' systems, our royalty revenues could be reduced or disrupted due to decreased product sales, including sales of our branded products, as a result of reputational damage; diversion of costs and other resources from product sales; or inability of our licensees or franchisees to calculate royalties or generate royalty reports.  If any of these risks were to materialize, our business, prospects, performance and financial condition could be materially harmed.. Changes in our effective tax rates or tax provisions or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our financial results.. We are subject to income tax in the United States, California and certain other state jurisdictions.  In addition, following our acquisition of the Hi-Tec family of footwear brands, we are also subject to taxation in several foreign jurisdictions, which may have unusual, unfamiliar or particularly burdensome tax laws.  Our new global tax structure could be negatively impacted by various factors, including changes in the tax rates in jurisdictions in which we earn income or changes in tax laws or interpretations of tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate, any of which could impact our future effective income tax rates.  Our effective tax rates could also be affected by changes in the valuation of. 20. Table of Contents. our deferred tax assets and liabilities, as has been the case in Fiscal 2018 as a result of significant changes to U.S. federal tax laws.  Any increase in our effective tax rate could adversely affect our reported financial results or the way in which we conduct our business.. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes, as there are many transactions and calculations in the ordinary course of our business that involve uncertain tax determinations.  If we are audited by tax authorities, these authorities could disagree with our judgments about our tax provisions.  Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax authorities in the event of such an audit could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals.  Any adverse result in such an audit or related litigation could materially negatively affect our income tax provision and results of operations in the period or periods for which the determination is made.  Moreover, any such audits or litigation, regardless of its outcome, could distract management and be expensive to defend, which could negatively affect our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.. We previously identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business and reputation and could, if repeated, result in material misstatements in our financial results.. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over our financial reporting, as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act.  However, our management previously identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of the last day of Fiscal 2017.  A material weakness is a deficiency or combination of deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.  As a result of these material weaknesses, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of January 28, 2017, the last day of Fiscal 2017, and that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of that date or as of the last day of each of our first three fiscal quarters during Fiscal 2018.. Although our management has determined that these material weaknesses have been remediated and that our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the last day of Fiscal 2018, as described in Item 9A of this Annual Report, these previously identified material weaknesses and conclusions of ineffective controls could continue to cause investors to lose confidence in the reliability of our reported financial and other information, adversely affect our reputation with lenders, retailers, investors, securities analysts and others, and result in a decline in the market price of our common stock.  Moreover, these or other material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting could develop or be discovered in the future, and management could determine that our controls and procedures have again become inadequate.  In that event, we may be required to develop and implement remediation measures to address any weaknesses or deficiencies that are identified, as we did throughout Fiscal 2018 with respect to our previously identified material weaknesses, and any such measures could involve significant time and costs, distract management from our core business operations and ultimately be insufficient to address any weaknesses that are identified.  If any of these risks were to occur, there would be a greater likelihood that our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements, in which case we could be required to restate our financial results.  Any such restatement could lead to substantial additional costs for accounting and legal fees, litigation, significant reputational harm and material declines in our stock price.. Compliance with securities laws, regulations and financial reporting standards could increase our costs and pose challenges for our management team, and any compliance failures could materially harm our business.. Existing laws, regulations, listing requirements and other standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure significantly increase the costs and risks associated with operating as a publicly traded company in the United States.  Our management team devotes significant time and financial resources to try to comply with existing and evolving standards for public companies.  Notwithstanding our efforts, we failed to comply with the SEC's reporting deadlines applicable to our annual report for Fiscal 2017 and our quarterly report for the first quarter of Fiscal 2018, and we have been forced to incur increased costs and divert time and other resources to hire personnel, engage consultants and change certain of our internal practices and policies in order to regain compliance with our public reporting requirements.  However, this compliance may not be sustained, and it is possible that financial and other public reports. 21. Table of Contents. we are obligated to file in the future also may not be considered timely, accurate or complete, in which case we may be forced to devote additional time and capital resources to further improve our public reporting systems and processes.  In addition, any future noncompliance with public reporting requirements could subject us to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC, which could involve fines or other penalties, and could also adversely affect our financial results, result in a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial information and other public disclosures and jeopardize the listing of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, as described elsewhere in these risk factors.  If any of these risks were to occur, our business and reputation could be materially adversely affected and the market price of our common stock could materially decline.. Further, the SEC has passed, promulgated or proposed new rules on a variety of subjects, including, for example, preparing and filing financial statements, establishing and disclosing clawback and hedging policies and disclosing additional executive compensation information.  The existence of new and proposed laws and regulations relating to financial reporting or other disclosure obligations or that impose additional or more stringent compliance requirements could create uncertainties for public companies, make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified executive officers and members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit and compensation committees, and generate significantly increased costs if we are required to add additional accounting or other staff, engage consultants or change our internal practices in order to comply with the new requirements.  The occurrence of any of these outcomes could significantly harm our business, financial condition and performance.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. The trading price of our common stock may be volatile, and shares of our common stock are relatively illiquid.. The trading price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, subject to material fluctuations.  These fluctuations can be caused by various factors, including, among others: (i) our financial results and financial condition, including our liquidity; (ii) our ability to maintain compliance with our obligations, including our credit facility with Cerberus; (iii) the successful completion of any acquisition or strategic transaction, including the integration of the acquired assets or businesses and realization of the intended or expected synergies and other benefits; (iv) any announcements by us, our retail partners or our competitors regarding or affecting the retail environment, the reputation of our brands, our existing or any new license agreements and brand representations, or acquisitions, strategic alliances or other transactions; (v) recruitment or departure of key personnel; (vi) changes in our financial guidance, if any, expectations for our financial results in the investment community, or the recommendations of any securities analysts that elect to follow our common stock; (vii) any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or any failures to comply with our public reporting requirements; (viii) market conditions in the retail industry and the economy as a whole; and (ix) the other risks described in these risk factors.. Further, as a result of our relatively small public float, our common stock may be less liquid, and the trading price for our common stock may be more affected by relatively small volumes of trading, than is the case for the common stock of companies with broader public ownership.. If we are not able to maintain compliance with Nasdaq's requirements for continued listing, our common stock may be delisted from trading on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our stockholders.. We received two deficiency letters from The Nasdaq Stock Market (\"Nasdaq\") in Fiscal 2018, each of which indicated that we were not in compliance with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5250(c)(1) for continued listing on the Nasdaq Global Select Market because we failed to file certain of our periodic reports with the SEC in a timely manner.  Although we have since filed these reports and regained compliance with this Nasdaq rule, we could fail to comply with this or other Nasdaq rules or requirements again in the future due to failures to file our periodic reports in a timely manner or other matters.  In such a case, we would receive further deficiency letters from Nasdaq and our common stock could be delisted from trading on the Nasdaq Global Select Market.  Any additional deficiency letters or any delisting event could severely limit the liquidity of our common stock and materially adversely affect the price of our common stock.. 22. Table of Contents. We may fail to meet publicly announced financial guidance or other expectations about our business, which would cause our common stock to decline in value.. From time to time, we may provide forward-looking financial guidance regarding our performance.  Any such guidance would be based on our then-current views, expectations and assumptions and could be materially different than our actual results.  Additionally, securities analysts or others in the investment community may publish expectations for our financial results, which also could be materially different than our actual results.  These differences could occur for a variety of reasons, such as, for instance, changes to the assumptions used to forecast or calculate the financial guidance or expectations, or the occurrence of risks related to our performance and our business, including those discussed in these risk factors, among others.  Any failure to meet any financial guidance or expectations regarding our future performance could harm our reputation and cause our stock price to decline.. We may not pay dividends regularly or at all in the future.. Determinations regarding the payment of dividends are subject to the discretion of our board of directors.  As a result, we may not pay any dividends in future periods, whether or not we generate sufficient cash to do so.  In addition, pursuant to our credit facility with Cerberus, subject to limited exceptions, we are prohibited from paying dividends or making other distributions to our stockholders without Cerberus's consent.  As a result, any return on an investment in our common stock may be limited to an appreciation in the value of our common stock.. Offers or availability for sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline.. The sale by our stockholders of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur upon the expiration of any statutory holding period, such as under Rule 144 under the Securities Act, upon expiration of any lock-up periods applicable to outstanding shares, or upon our issuance of new shares as a result of the exercise of outstanding options or warrants or the vesting of restricted stock units, could cause the market price of our common stock to fall.  The availability for sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, whether or not sales have occurred or are occurring, also could make it more difficult for us to raise additional financing through the sale of equity or equity-related securities in the future when needed, on acceptable terms or at all.. Our certificate of incorporation allows our board of directors to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of \"blank check\" preferred stock.. Our certificate of incorporation allows our board of directors to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of \"blank check\" preferred stock without any action by our stockholders.  Subject to the restrictions under our new credit facility with Cerberus, such shares of preferred stock may be issued on terms determined by our board of directors in its discretion, and may have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of our common stock.  For instance, such shares of preferred stock could have liquidation preferences that are senior to the liquidation rights applicable to our common stock, could have superior voting or conversion rights, which could adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our common stock, or could have other terms that negatively impact the voting control or other rights of our common stockholders.  Additionally, the ownership interest of holders of our common stock would be diluted following the issuance of any shares of our preferred stock.  Further, the preferred stock could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method for discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of our Company, even at a time or under circumstances when you or other stockholders may prefer such a change in control.. A small number of our stockholders beneficially own a significant portion of our common stock and therefore are able to exert significant influence over our corporate decisions, including the election of directors and a change of control.  The interests of these stockholders may differ from yours.. A small number of stockholders beneficially own a significant portion of our common stock.  As a result, these parties may be able to influence or control matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and mergers, acquisitions or other extraordinary transactions.  These parties may have interests that differ from ours or yours, and they may vote in ways with which you disagree and that may be adverse to your interests.  This. 23. Table of Contents. concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our Company, which could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock as part of a sale of our Company.  Conversely, this concentration of ownership may facilitate a change of control at a time or under circumstances when you and other stockholders may prefer not to sell.  Further, this concentration of ownership could adversely affect the prevailing market price for our common stock."
