[1] "ITEM 1A.  Risk Factors. There are numerous factors that affect our business and operating results, many of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of significant factors that might cause our future results to differ materially from those currently expected. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business operations. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial position, operating results, cash flows, reserves and/or our ability to pay our debts and other liabilities could suffer, the trading price and liquidity of our securities could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment in our securities.. Oil, natural gas and NGL prices fluctuate widely, and lower prices for an extended period of time are likely to have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our revenues, operating results, profitability, liquidity and ability to grow depend primarily upon the prices we receive for the oil, natural gas and NGL we sell. We incur substantial expenditures to replace reserves, sustain production and fund our business plans. Low oil, natural gas and NGL prices can negatively affect the amount of cash available for capital expenditures, debt service and debt repayment and our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and reserves. In addition, low oil and natural gas prices, such as those experienced in 2015 and continuing into the first quarter of 2017, may result in ceiling test write-downs of our oil and natural gas properties.. 22. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Historically, the markets for oil, natural gas and NGL have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile. Wide fluctuations in oil, natural gas and NGL prices may result from factors that are beyond our control, including:. • domestic and worldwide supplies of oil, natural gas and NGL, including U.S. inventories of oil and natural gas reserves;. • weather conditions;. • changes in the level of consumer and industrial demand;. • the price and availability of alternative fuels;. • the effectiveness of worldwide conservation measures;. • the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines, other transportation facilities and processing facilities;. • the level and effect of trading in commodity futures markets, including by commodity price speculators and others;. • U.S. exports of oil, natural gas, liquefied natural gas and NGL;. • the price and level of foreign imports;. • the nature and extent of domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes;. • the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls;. • political instability or armed conflict in oil and natural gas producing regions;. • acts of terrorism; and. • domestic and global economic conditions.. These factors and the volatility of the energy markets make it extremely difficult to predict future oil, natural gas and NGL price movements with any certainty. As of February 22, 2018, including January and February derivative contracts that have settled, approximately 74% and 68% of our forecasted 2018 oil production and natural gas production, respectively, was hedged through swaps and collars. Even with oil, natural gas and NGL derivatives currently in place to mitigate price risks associated with a portion of our 2018 cash flows, we have substantial exposure to oil, natural gas and NGL prices in 2019 and beyond. In addition, a prolonged extension of lower prices could reduce the quantities of reserves that we may economically produce.. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. Our leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects, and we may have difficulty paying our debts as they become due.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $10.0 billion in principal amount of debt outstanding (including $52 million of current maturities and $781 million drawn under our senior secured revolving credit facility). We had approximately $116 million of letters of credit issued and borrowing capacity of approximately $2.9 billion under our $3.8 billion senior secured revolving credit facility.. 23. TABLE OF CONTENTS. The level of and terms and conditions governing our debt:. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our existing debt obligations and could limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. • increase our vulnerability to the cyclical nature of our business, economic downturns or other adverse developments in our business;. • could limit our ability to access capital markets, refinance our existing indebtedness, raise capital on favorable terms, or obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy, or for other purposes;. • expose us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our credit facility, bear interest at floating rates;. • place restrictions on our ability to obtain additional financing, make investments, lease equipment, sell assets and engage in business combinations;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors with lower levels of indebtedness in relation to their overall size, or those that have less restrictive terms governing their indebtedness, thereby enabling competitors to take advantage of opportunities that our indebtedness may prevent us from pursuing;. • limit management's discretion in operating our business; and. • increase our cost of borrowing.. Any of the above listed factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Our ability to pay our expenses and fund our working capital needs and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as commodity prices, other economic conditions and governmental regulation. We have drawn on our credit facility for liquidity, and the borrowing base under our credit facility is subject to redetermination on June 15, 2018. To the extent that the value of the collateral pledged under the credit facility declines as a result of lower oil and natural gas prices, asset dispositions or otherwise, we may be required to pledge additional collateral in order to maintain the current availability of the commitments thereunder, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain a sufficiently high valuation to maintain the current commitments. In addition, we cannot be certain that our cash flow will be sufficient to allow us to pay the principal and interest on our debt and meet our other obligations. If we are unable to service our indebtedness and other obligations, we may be required to restructure or refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, borrow more money or raise equity, some or all of which may not be available to us on terms acceptable to us, if at all, or such alternative strategies may yield insufficient funds to make required payments on our indebtedness. In addition, our ability to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness could be affected by our future performance and events or circumstances beyond our control. Failure to comply with these covenants would result in an event of default under such indebtedness, the potential acceleration of our obligation to repay outstanding debt and the potential foreclosure on the collateral securing such debt, and could cause a cross-default under our other outstanding indebtedness. Any of the above risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. We have significant capital needs, and our ability to access the capital and credit markets to raise capital on favorable terms is limited by our debt level and industry conditions.. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets, in particular with respect to the energy sector, could limit our ability to access these markets or may significantly increase our cost to borrow. Low commodity prices have caused and may continue to cause lenders to increase interest rates, enact tighter lending standards, refuse to refinance existing debt around maturity on favorable terms or at all and may reduce or cease to provide funding to borrowers. If we are unable to access the capital and credit markets on favorable terms, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity and our ability to repay or refinance our debt.. 24. TABLE OF CONTENTS. If we are unable to generate enough cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness or are unable to use future borrowings to refinance our indebtedness or fund other capital needs, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, which may have onerous terms or may be unavailable.. Our earnings and cash flow could vary significantly from year to year due to the cyclical nature of our industry. As a result, the amount of debt that we can manage in some periods may not be appropriate for us in other periods. Additionally, our future cash flow may be insufficient to meet our debt obligations and commitments. A range of economic, competitive, business and industry factors will affect our future financial performance and, as a result, our ability to generate cash flow from operations and service our debt. Factors that may cause us to generate cash flow that is insufficient to meet our debt obligations include the events and risks related to our business, many of which are beyond our control. Any cash flow insufficiency would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity and our ability to repay or refinance our debt.. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our outstanding indebtedness, or if future borrowings are not available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay or refinance our indebtedness, we may be required to undertake various alternative financing plans, which may include:. • refinancing or restructuring all or a portion of our debt;. • seeking alternative financing or additional capital investment;. • selling strategic assets;. • reducing or delaying capital investments; or. • revising or delaying our strategic plans.. We cannot assure you that we would be able to implement any of the above alternative financing plans, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations or to obtain alternative financing, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. Any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could significantly harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms. Further, if for any reason we are unable to meet our debt service and repayment obligations, we would be in default under the terms of the agreements governing our debt, which would allow our creditors under those agreements to declare all outstanding indebtedness thereunder to be due and payable (which would in turn trigger cross-acceleration or cross-default rights between the relevant agreements), the lenders under our credit facility could terminate their commitments to extend credit, and the lenders could foreclose against our assets securing their borrowings and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. In addition, the lenders under our credit facility could compel us to apply our available cash to repay our borrowings. If the amounts outstanding under the credit facility or any of our other significant indebtedness were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full the amounts owed to the lenders or to our other debt holders.. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase.. Borrowings under our revolving credit facility, term loan facility and floating rate senior notes due 2019 bear interest at variable rates and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase and we are unable to hedge our interest rate risk, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same.. 25. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Restrictive covenants in certain of our debt agreements could limit our growth and our ability to finance our operations, fund our capital needs, respond to changing conditions and engage in other business activities that may be in our best interests.. Certain of our debt agreements impose operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability and that of our restricted subsidiaries to, among other things:. • incur additional indebtedness;. • make investments or loans;. • create liens;. • consummate mergers and similar fundamental changes;. • make restricted payments;. • make investments in unrestricted subsidiaries;. • enter into transactions with affiliates; and. • use the proceeds of asset sales.. We may be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations imposed on us by the restrictive covenants under certain of our debt agreements. The restrictions contained in the covenants could:. • limit our ability to plan for, or react to, market conditions, to meet capital needs or otherwise to restrict our activities or business plan; and. • adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, enter into acquisitions or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest.. Also, our credit facility requires us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests. Declines in oil, NGL and natural gas prices, or a prolonged period of low oil, NGL and natural gas prices and other events, some of which are beyond our control, could eventually result in our failing to meet one or more of the financial covenants under our credit facility, which could require us to refinance or amend such obligations resulting in the payment of consent fees or higher interest rates, or require us to raise additional capital at an inopportune time or on terms not favorable to us.. A breach of any of these covenants or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios or financial condition tests could result in a default under our credit facility that, if not cured or waived, could result in acceleration of all indebtedness outstanding thereunder and cross-default rights under our other debt. In addition, in the event of an event of default under the credit facility, term loan or second lien notes, the affected lenders could foreclose on the collateral securing the credit facility and require repayment of all borrowings outstanding thereunder. If the amounts outstanding under the credit facility or any of our other indebtedness were to be accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full the amounts owed to the lenders or to our other debt holders.. Our credit rating could negatively impact our availability and cost of capital and could require us to post more collateral under certain commercial arrangements.. Some of our counterparties have requested or required us to post collateral as financial assurance of our performance under certain contractual arrangements, such as gathering, transportation, processing and hedging agreements. These collateral requirements depend, in part, on our credit ratings. As of February 20, 2018, we have received requests and posted approximately $151 million of collateral related to certain of our marketing and other contracts. We may be requested or required by other counterparties to post additional collateral in an aggregate amount of approximately $486 million, which may be in the form of additional letters of credit, cash or other acceptable collateral. Any downgrade to our credit ratings could impact the posting of collateral consisting of cash or letters of credit, which would reduce availability under our credit facility, and negatively impact our liquidity.. Declines in commodity prices could result in write downs of the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties.. Under the full cost method of accounting for costs related to our oil and natural gas properties, we are required to write down the carrying value of our oil and natural gas assets if capitalized costs exceed the present value of future net revenues of our proved reserves, which is based on the average of commodity prices on the first day of the month. 26. TABLE OF CONTENTS. over the trailing 12-month period. Such write-downs could be material. As of December 31, 2017, the present value of estimated future net revenue of our proved reserves, discounted at an annual rate of 10%, was $7.5 billion, which exceeds the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties.. Significant capital expenditures are required to replace our reserves and conduct our business.. Our exploration, development and acquisition activities require substantial capital expenditures. We intend to fund our capital expenditures through cash flows from operations, and to the extent that is not sufficient, borrowings under our revolving credit facility. Our ability to generate operating cash flow is subject to a number of risks and variables, such as the level of production from existing wells, prices of oil, natural gas and NGL, our success in developing and producing new reserves and the other risk factors discussed herein. If we are unable to fund our capital expenditures as planned, we could experience a curtailment of our exploration and development activity, a loss of properties and a decline in our oil, natural gas and NGL reserves.. If we are not able to replace reserves, we may not be able to sustain production.. Our future success depends largely upon our ability to find, develop or acquire additional oil and natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Unless we replace the reserves we produce through successful development, exploration or acquisition activities, our proved reserves and production will decline over time. Our reserve estimates as of December 31, 2017 reflect an expected decline in the production rate on our producing properties of approximately 35% in 2018 and 23% in 2019. Thus, our future oil and natural gas reserves and production, and therefore our cash flow and income, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves.. The actual quantities of and future net revenues from our proved reserves may be less than our estimates.. The estimates of our proved reserves and the estimated future net revenues from our proved reserves included in this report are based upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC relating to oil, natural gas and NGL prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The process of estimating oil, natural gas and NGL reserves is complex and involves significant decisions and assumptions associated with geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each well. Therefore, these estimates are subject to future revisions.. Actual future production, oil, natural gas and NGL prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil, natural gas and NGL reserves most likely will vary from these estimates. Such variations may be significant and could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our proved reserves. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development drilling, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 42% of our estimated proved reserves (by volume) were undeveloped. These reserve estimates reflect our plans to make significant capital expenditures to convert our PUDs into proved developed reserves, including approximately $4.3 billion during the next five years ending in 2022. You should be aware that the estimated development costs may not equal our actual costs, development may not occur as scheduled and results may not be as estimated. If we choose not to develop our PUDs, or if we are not otherwise able to successfully develop them, we will be required to remove them from our reported proved reserves. In addition, under the SEC's reserve reporting rules, because PUDs generally may be booked only if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years of the date of booking, we may be required to remove any PUDs that are not developed within this five-year time frame.. You should not assume that the present values included in this report represent the current market value of our estimated reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, the estimates of our present values are based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimates. The price on the date of estimate is calculated as the average oil and natural gas price during the 12 months ending in the current reporting period, determined as the unweighted arithmetic average of prices on the first day of each month within the 12-month period. The December 31, 2017 present value is based on a $51.34 per bbl of oil price and a $2.98 per mcf of natural gas price, before considering basis differential adjustments. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs as of the date of an estimate.. The timing of both the production and the expenses from the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect both the timing of future net cash flows from our proved reserves and their present value. Any changes in demand for oil and natural gas, governmental regulations or taxation will also affect the future net cash flows from our production. In addition, the 10% discount factor that is required by the SEC to be used in calculating. 27. TABLE OF CONTENTS. discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor. Interest rates in effect from time to time and the risks associated with our business or the oil and gas industry in general will affect the appropriateness of the 10% discount factor.. Our development and exploratory drilling efforts and our well operations may not be profitable or achieve our targeted returns.. We have a substantial inventory of undeveloped properties. Development and exploratory drilling and production activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that commercially productive reservoirs will not be discovered. We have acquired undeveloped properties that we believe will enhance our growth potential and increase our earnings over time. However, we cannot assure you that all prospects will be economically viable or that we will not abandon our initial investments. Additionally, there can be no assurance that undeveloped properties acquired by us will be profitably developed, that new wells drilled by us in prospects that we pursue will be productive, or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment in such undeveloped properties or wells.. Drilling for oil and natural gas may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells but also from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient commercial quantities to cover the drilling, operating and other costs. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and many factors can adversely affect the economics of a well or property. Drilling and completion operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of unexpected drilling conditions, title problems, equipment failures or accidents, shortages of midstream transportation, equipment or personnel, environmental issues, state or local bans or moratoriums on hydraulic fracturing and produced water disposal, and a decline in commodity prices, among others. The profitability of wells, particularly in certain of the areas in which we operate, will be reduced or eliminated as commodity prices decline. In addition, wells that are profitable may not meet our internal return targets, which are dependent upon the current and future market prices for oil, natural gas and NGL, costs associated with producing oil, natural gas and NGL and our ability to add reserves at an acceptable cost. All costs of development and exploratory drilling activities are capitalized under the full cost method, even if the activities do not result in commercially productive discoveries, which may result in a future impairment of our oil and natural gas properties if commodity prices decrease.. We rely to a significant extent on seismic data and other advanced technologies in evaluating undeveloped properties and in conducting our exploration activities. The seismic data and other technologies we use do not allow us to know conclusively, prior to acquisition of undeveloped properties, or drilling a well, whether oil or natural gas is present or may be produced economically. If we incur significant expense in acquiring or developing properties that do not produce as expected or at profitable levels, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Certain of our undeveloped properties are subject to leases that will expire over the next several years unless production is established on units containing the acreage or the leases are renewed.. Leases on oil and natural gas properties typically have a term of three to five years, after which they expire unless, prior to expiration, a well is drilled and production of hydrocarbons in paying quantities is established. If our leases on our undeveloped properties expire and we are unable to renew the leases, we will lose our right to develop the related properties. Although we seek to actively manage our undeveloped properties, our drilling plans for these areas are subject to change based upon various factors, including drilling results, oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints and regulatory approvals. Low commodity prices may cause us to delay our drilling plans and, as a result, lose our right to develop the related properties.. 28. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Our commodity price risk management activities may limit the benefit we would receive from increases in commodity prices, may require us to provide collateral for derivative liabilities and involve risk that our counterparties may be unable to satisfy their obligations to us.. In order to manage our exposure to price volatility, we enter into oil, natural gas and NGL price derivative contracts. Our oil, natural gas and NGL derivative arrangements may limit the benefit we would receive from increases in commodity prices. The fair value of our oil, natural gas and NGL derivative instruments can fluctuate significantly between periods. Our decision to mitigate cash flow volatility through derivative arrangements, if any, is based in part on our view of current and future market conditions and our desire to stabilize cash flows necessary for the development of our proved reserves. We may choose not to enter into derivatives if the pricing environment for certain time periods is not deemed to be favorable. Additionally, we may choose to liquidate existing derivative positions prior to the expiration of their contractual maturities to monetize gain positions for the purpose of funding our capital program.. Most of our oil, natural gas and NGL derivative contracts are with counterparties under bi-lateral hedging arrangements. Under a majority of our arrangements, the collateral provided for our obligations is secured by the same hydrocarbon interests that secure our senior secured revolving credit facility. Under other arrangements, our obligations under the bi-lateral hedging arrangements must be secured by cash or letters of credit to the extent that any mark-to-market amounts owed to us or by us exceed defined thresholds. Under certain circumstances, the cash collateral value posted could fall below the coverage designated, and we would be required to post additional cash or letter of credit collateral under our hedging arrangements. Our counterparties' obligations under the arrangements must be secured by cash or letters of credit to the extent that any mark-to-market amounts owed to us exceed defined thresholds. Collateral requirements are dependent to a large extent on oil and natural gas prices.. Oil, natural gas and NGL derivative transactions expose us to the risk that our counterparties, which are generally financial institutions, may be unable to satisfy their obligations to us. During periods of declining commodity prices, the value of our commodity derivative asset positions increase, which increases our counterparty exposure. Although the counterparties to our hedging arrangements are required to secure their obligations to us under certain scenarios, if any of our counterparties were to default on its obligations to us under the derivative contracts or seek bankruptcy protection, it could have an adverse effect on our ability to fund our planned activities and could result in a larger percentage of our future cash flows being exposed to commodity price changes.. The ultimate outcome of pending legal and governmental proceedings is uncertain, and there are significant costs associated with these matters.. We are defending against claims by royalty owners alleging, among other things, that we used below-market prices, made improper deductions, used improper measurement techniques, entered into arrangements with affiliates that resulted in underpayment of royalties in connection with the production and sales of natural gas and NGL and similar theories. Numerous cases are pending. The resolution of disputes regarding past payments could cause our future obligations to royalty owners to increase and would negatively impact our future results of operations.. In addition, there are ongoing governmental regulatory investigations and inquiries into such matters as our royalty practices and possible antitrust violations. The outcome of any pending or future litigation or governmental regulatory matter is uncertain and may adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, we have incurred substantial legal expenses in the past three years, and such expenses may continue to be significant in the future. Further, attention to these matters by members of our senior management has been required, reducing the time they have available to devote to managing our business.. We may continue to incur cash and noncash charges that would negatively impact our future results of operations and liquidity.. While executing our strategic priorities to reduce financial leverage and complexity and to lower our capital expenditures in the face of lower commodity prices, we have incurred certain cash charges, including contract termination charges, restructuring and other termination costs, financing extinguishment costs and charges for unused natural gas transportation and gathering capacity. As we continue to focus on our strategic priorities, we may incur additional cash and noncash charges in 2018 and in future years. If incurred, these charges could materially adversely impact our future results of operations and liquidity.. 29. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Oil and natural gas drilling and producing operations can be hazardous and may expose us to liabilities.. Oil and natural gas operations are subject to many risks, including well blowouts, cratering, explosions, pipe failures, fires, formations with abnormal pressures, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine or well fluids, oil spills, severe weather, natural disasters, groundwater contamination and other environmental hazards and risks. Some of these risks or hazards could materially and adversely affect our revenues and expenses by reducing or shutting in production from wells or otherwise negatively impacting the projected economic performance of our prospects. For our non-operated properties, we are dependent on the operator for operational and regulatory compliance. If any of these risks occurs, we could sustain substantial losses as a result of:. • injury or loss of life;. • severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources or equipment;. • pollution or other environmental damage;. • clean-up responsibilities;. • regulatory investigations and administrative, civil and criminal penalties; and. • injunctions resulting in limitation or suspension of operations.. A material event such as those described above could expose us to liabilities, monetary penalties or interruptions in our business operations. While we may maintain insurance against some, but not all, of the risks described above, our insurance may not be adequate to cover casualty losses or liabilities, and our insurance does not cover penalties or fines that may be assessed by a governmental authority. For certain risks, such as political risk, business interruption, war, terrorism and piracy, we have limited or no insurance coverage. Also, in the future we may not be able to obtain insurance at premium levels that justify its purchase. The occurrence of a significant event against which we are not fully insured may expose us to liabilities.. We are subject to complex laws and regulations relating to environmental protection that can adversely affect the cost, manner and feasibility of doing business, and further regulation in the future could increase costs, impose additional operating restrictions and cause delays.. Our operations and properties are subject to numerous federal, regional, state and local laws and regulations governing the release of pollutants or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations govern the following, among other things:. • conduct of our exploration, drilling, completion, production and midstream activities;. • amounts and types of emissions and discharges;. • generation, management, and disposition of hazardous substances and waste materials;. • reclamation and abandonment of wells and facility sites; and. • remediation of contaminated sites.. In addition, these laws and regulations may impose substantial liabilities for our failure to comply or for any contamination resulting from our operations, including the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties; the imposition of investigatory, remedial, and corrective action obligations or the incurrence of capital expenditures; the occurrence of delays in the development of projects; and the issuance of injunctions restricting or prohibiting some or all of our activities in a particular area. Future environmental laws and regulations imposing further restrictions on the emission of pollutants into the air, discharges into state or U.S. waters, wastewater disposal and hydraulic fracturing, or the designation of previously unprotected species as threatened or endangered in areas where we operate, may negatively impact our industry. We cannot predict the actions that future regulation will require or prohibit, but our business and operations could be subject to increased operating and compliance costs if certain regulatory proposals are adopted. In addition, such regulations may have an adverse impact on our ability to develop and produce our reserves.. Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays.. Several states have adopted or are considering adopting regulations that could impose more stringent permitting, public disclosure and/or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. In addition to state laws, some local municipalities have adopted or are considering adopting land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, that may restrict or prohibit the performance of well drilling in general and/or hydraulic fracturing in particular. There have. 30. TABLE OF CONTENTS. also been certain governmental reviews that focus on deep shale and other formation completion and production practices, including hydraulic fracturing. These studies assess, among other things, the risks of groundwater contamination and earthquakes caused by hydraulic fracturing and other exploration and production activities. Based on the results of these studies, federal and state legislatures and agencies may seek to further regulate or even ban such activities, as some state and local governments have already done. In addition, a number of lawsuits have been filed in Oklahoma alleging damage from earthquakes relating to disposal well operations.. We cannot predict whether additional federal, state or local laws or regulations applicable to hydraulic fracturing will be enacted in the future and, if so, what actions any such laws or regulations would require or prohibit. If additional levels of regulation or permitting requirements were imposed on hydraulic fracturing operations, our business and operations could be subject to delays, increased operating and compliance costs and process prohibitions. Additional regulation could also lead to greater opposition to hydraulic fracturing, including litigation.. Our ability to produce oil, natural gas and NGL economically and in commercial quantities could be impaired if we are unable to acquire adequate supplies of water for our operations or are unable to dispose of or recycle the water we use economically and in an environmentally safe manner.. Development activities require the use of water. For example, hydraulic fracturing requires the use and disposal of significant quantities of water. In certain areas, there may be insufficient local aquifer capacity to provide a source of water for drilling activities. Water must be obtained from other sources and transported to the drilling site. Our inability to secure sufficient amounts of water, or to dispose of or recycle the water used in our operations, could adversely impact our operations in certain areas. The imposition of new environmental initiatives and regulations, such as the OCC's volume reduction plans for oil and natural gas disposal wells injecting wastewater into the Arbuckle formation and the EPA's June 2016 pretreatment standards for wastewater, could further restrict our ability to conduct certain operations such as hydraulic fracturing or disposal of waste, including, but not limited to, produced water, drilling fluids and other materials associated with the exploration, development or production of oil and natural gas.. Potential legislative and regulatory actions addressing climate change could significantly impact our industry and us, causing increased costs and reduced demand for oil and natural gas.. Various state governments and regional organizations are considering enacting new legislation and promulgating new regulations governing or restricting the emission of greenhouse gases from stationary sources such as our equipment and operations. At the federal level, the EPA has already made findings and issued regulations that require us to establish and report a prescribed inventory of greenhouse gas emissions. Additional legislative and/or regulatory proposals for restricting greenhouse gas emissions or otherwise addressing climate change could require us to incur additional operating costs and could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas that we sell. The potential increase in our operating costs could include new or increased costs to obtain permits, operate and maintain our equipment and facilities, install new emission controls on our equipment and facilities, acquire allowances to authorize our greenhouse gas emissions, pay taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions and administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. Even without federal legislation or regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, states may pursue the issue either directly or indirectly.. In addition, the United States was actively involved in the United Nations Conference on Climate Change in Paris, which led to the creation of the Paris Agreement. The Paris Agreement will require countries to review and \"represent a progression\" in their nationally determined contributions, which set emissions reduction goals, every five years. In August 2017, the United States informed the United Nations of its intent to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. The earliest possible effective withdrawal date from the Paris Agreement is November 2020. The Paris Agreement could further drive regulation in the United States. Restrictions on emissions of methane or carbon dioxide that have been or may be imposed in various states, or at the federal level could adversely affect the oil and gas industry. Moreover, incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources as a means of addressing climate change could reduce demand for oil and natural gas. Finally, we note that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as higher sea levels, increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, floods, and other climatic events. If any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 31. TABLE OF CONTENTS. The taxation of independent producers is subject to change, and changes in tax law could increase our cost of doing business.. We are subject to taxation by various taxing authorities at the federal, state and local levels where we do business. New legislation increasing our tax burden could be enacted by any of these governmental authorities. Recently, legislative changes imposing additional taxes or increases to existing taxes were considered in Louisiana, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania and Wyoming. It is possible that any of these states could enact new tax legislation making it more costly for us to explore for oil and natural gas resources.. Additionally, on December 22, 2017, the President of the United States signed into law tax reform legislation informally known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") that substantially revised numerous areas of U.S. federal income tax law. Although we do not expect there to be an immediate adverse impact on our federal income taxes from the Tax Act, new restrictions on items such as the utilization of net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards and the deductibility of business interest could adversely impact our federal income taxes in future years. Furthermore, the extent to which state and local taxing authorities will adopt tax laws that conform with or differ from provisions of the Tax Act is unclear. Any change in state or local tax law in response to the Tax Act could affect our tax burden and make it more costly for us to explore for oil and natural gas resources.. Further, our ability to utilize our federal NOL carryforwards to reduce future taxable income and federal income tax is subject to various limitations under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"). The utilization of such carryforwards may be limited upon the occurrence of certain ownership changes, including the acquisition or disposition of our stock by 5% shareholders and our offering of stock during any three-year period resulting in a cumulative shift of more than 50% in our beneficial ownership. In the event of an ownership change, Section 382 of the Code imposes an annual limitation on the amount of NOL carryforwards (accumulated prior to the change date) that can be used to offset our future taxable income. The limitation is generally equal to the product of (a) the fair market value of our equity multiplied by (b) the long-term tax-exempt rate in effect for the month in which the ownership change occurs. In addition, if we are in a net unrealized built-in gain position at the time of an ownership change then the limitation may be increased if there are recognized built-in gains during a certain recognition period following the ownership change. If we are in a net unrealized built-in loss position at the time of an ownership change then the limitation may apply to tax attributes other than just NOL carryforwards such as depreciable basis.  Some states impose similar limitations on tax attribute utilization upon experiencing an ownership change.  We do not believe that an ownership change has occurred as of December 31, 2017 that would limit future utilization of our NOL carryforwards or other tax attributes.. The oil and gas exploration and production industry is very competitive, and some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do.. We face competition in every aspect of our business, including, but not limited to, buying and selling reserves and leases, obtaining goods and services needed to operate our business and marketing oil, natural gas or NGL. Competitors include multinational oil companies, independent production companies and individual producers and operators. Some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do and, due to our debt levels and other factors, may have greater access to the capital and credit markets. As a result, these competitors may be able to address these competitive factors more effectively or weather industry downturns more easily than we can. We also face indirect competition from alternative energy sources, including wind, solar and electric power.. Our performance depends largely on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals and on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. Competition in our industry for qualified employees is intense. If we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining skilled employees and managerial talent, our ability to compete effectively will be diminished.. Risks related to potential acquisitions or dispositions may adversely affect our business.. From time to time, we evaluate acquisitions and dispositions of assets, businesses and other investments. These transactions may not result in the anticipated benefits or efficiencies. In addition, acquisitions may be financed by borrowings, requiring us to incur more debt, or by the issuance of our common stock. Any such acquisition or disposition involves risks and we cannot assure that:. • any acquisition would be successfully integrated into our operations and internal controls;. • the due diligence conducted prior to an acquisition would uncover situations that could result in financial or legal exposure, such as title defects and potential environmental and other liabilities;. 32. TABLE OF CONTENTS. • post-closing purchase price adjustments will be realized in our favor;. • our assumptions about, among other things, reserves, estimated production, revenues, capital expenditures, operating, operating expenses and costs would be accurate;. • any investment, acquisition, disposition or integration would not divert management resources from the operation of our business; and. • any investment, acquisition, or disposition or integration would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or reserves.. If any of these risks materialize, the benefits of such acquisition or disposition may not be fully realized, if at all, and our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and reserves could be negatively impacted.. A deterioration in general economic, business or industry conditions would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.. Historically, concerns about global economic growth have had a significant impact on global financial markets and commodity prices. If the economic climate in the United States or abroad deteriorates, worldwide demand for petroleum products could diminish, which could impact the price at which we can sell our production, affect the ability of our vendors, suppliers and customers to continue operations and materially adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.. Terrorist activities could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Terrorist attacks and the threat of terrorist attacks, whether domestic or foreign attacks, as well as military or other actions taken in response to these acts, could cause instability in the global financial and energy markets. Continued hostilities in the Middle East and the occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks in the United States or other countries could adversely affect the global economy in unpredictable ways, including the disruption of energy supplies and markets, increased volatility in commodity prices, or the possibility that the infrastructure on which we rely could be a direct target or an indirect casualty of an act of terrorism, and, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Negative public perception regarding us and/or our industry could have an adverse effect on our operations.. Negative public perception regarding us and/or our industry resulting from, among other things, concerns raised by advocacy groups about hydraulic fracturing, waste disposal, oil spills, and explosions of natural gas transmission lines may lead to increased regulatory scrutiny, which may, in turn, lead to new state and federal safety and environmental laws, regulations, guidelines and enforcement interpretations. These actions may cause operational delays or restrictions, increased operating costs, additional regulatory burdens and increased risk of litigation. Moreover, governmental authorities exercise considerable discretion in the timing and scope of permit issuance and the public may engage in the permitting process, including through intervention in the courts. Negative public perception could cause the permits we require to conduct our operations to be withheld, delayed or burdened by requirements that restrict our ability to profitably conduct our business.. Our operations may be adversely affected by pipeline, trucking and gathering system capacity constraints and may be subject to interruptions that could adversely affect our cash flow.. In certain shale plays, the capacity of gathering and transportation systems is insufficient to accommodate potential production from existing and new wells. We rely heavily on third parties to meet our oil, natural gas and NGL gathering needs. Capital constraints could limit the construction of new pipelines and gathering systems and the providing or expansion of trucking services by third parties. Until this new capacity is available, we may experience delays in producing and selling our oil, natural gas and NGL. In such event, we might have to shut in our wells awaiting a pipeline connection or capacity and/or sell oil, natural gas or NGL production at significantly lower prices than those quoted on NYMEX or than we currently project, which would adversely affect our results of operations.. A portion of our oil, natural gas and NGL production in any region may be interrupted, or shut in, from time to time for numerous reasons, including weather conditions, accidents, loss of pipeline or gathering system access, field labor issues or strikes, or we might voluntarily curtail production in response to market conditions. If a substantial amount of our production is interrupted at the same time, it could materially adversely affect our cash flow.. 33. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Cyber-attacks targeting systems and infrastructure used by the oil and gas industry may adversely impact our operations.. Our business has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies to conduct certain exploration, development and production activities. We depend on digital technology to estimate quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL reserves, process and record financial and operating data, analyze seismic and drilling information, and communicate with our employees and third-party partners. We have been the subject of cyber-attacks on our internal systems and through those of third parties, but these incidents did not have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Nevertheless, unauthorized access to our seismic data, reserves information or other proprietary or commercially sensitive information could lead to data corruption, communication interruption, or other disruptions in our exploration or production operations or planned business transactions, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Further, as cyber-attacks continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any vulnerabilities to cyber-attacks.. An interruption in operations at our headquarters could adversely affect our business.. Our headquarters are located in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, an area that experiences severe weather events, including tornadoes and earthquakes. Our information systems and administrative and management processes are primarily provided to our various drilling projects and producing wells throughout the United States from this location, which could be disrupted if a catastrophic event, such as a tornado, power outage or act of terror, destroyed or severely damaged our headquarters. Any such catastrophic event could harm our ability to conduct normal operations and could adversely affect our business.. We do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the near future.. In July 2015, our Board of Directors determined to eliminate quarterly cash dividends on our common stock. Accordingly, we do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any earnings for the future operation and development of our business, including exploration, development and acquisition activities or to retire outstanding debt and/or preferred stock. Any future dividend payments will require approval by the Board of Directors. In addition, dividends may be restricted by the terms of our debt agreements. Additionally, our Board of Directors may determine to suspend dividend payments on our preferred stock in the future. If we fail to pay dividends on our preferred stock with respect to six or more quarterly periods (whether or not consecutive), the holders of our preferred stock, voting as a single class, will be entitled at the next regular or special meeting of shareholders to elect two additional directors of the Company. We had previously failed to pay dividends on our outstanding preferred stock with respect to four quarterly periods during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016, before resuming payment, in arrears, in the first quarter of 2017.. Certain anti-takeover and other provisions may affect your rights as a shareholder.. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to set the terms of and issue preferred stock without shareholder approval. Our Board of Directors could use the preferred stock as a means to delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt that a shareholder might consider to be in our best interest. In addition, our revolving credit facility, term loan facility, preferred stock and certain of our notes contain terms that may restrict our ability to enter into change of control transactions, including requirements to repay borrowings under our revolving credit facility and to offer to purchase our term loan and to offer to repurchase such notes on a change in control. These provisions, along with specified provisions of the Oklahoma General Corporation Act and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, may discourage or impede transactions involving actual or potential changes in our control, including transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices to holders of our common stock."
