[1] "ITEM 1A.  Risk Factors. Risks Related to the Units. Producing oil, natural gas and NGL on the Underlying Properties is a high-risk activity with many uncertainties. Any delays or reductions in production could decrease cash available for distribution to unitholders.. Producing oil, natural gas and NGL can be unprofitable if productive wells do not produce sufficient revenues to return a profit. Chesapeake's and third-party operators' decisions to develop or otherwise exploit certain areas within the AMI depended in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. Production operations on the Underlying Properties may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of various factors, including the following:. • unusual or unexpected geological formations and miscalculations or irregularities in formations;. • equipment malfunctions, failures or accidents;. • lack of available gathering facilities or delays in construction of gathering facilities;. • lack of available capacity on interconnecting transmission pipelines;. • pipe or cement failures and casing collapses;. • pressures, fires, blowouts and explosions;. • lost or damaged service tools;. • uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas and NGL water or drilling fluids;. • natural disasters;. • environmental hazards, such as oil, natural gas and NGL leaks, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases or fluids;. • adverse weather conditions, such as extreme cold, fires caused by extreme heat or lack of rain and severe storms or tornadoes;. • reductions in oil, natural gas and NGL prices; and. • title problems affecting the Underlying Properties.. If the Producing Wells or Development Wells have lower than anticipated production due to one of the factors above or for any other reason, cash distributions to unitholders may be reduced.. Oil, natural gas and NGL prices fluctuate widely, and depressed prices for an extended period of time are likely to have a material adverse effect on proceeds to the Trust and cash distributions to unitholders.. The Trust's reserves and quarterly cash distributions depend primarily upon the prices realized from the sales of oil, natural gas and NGL. Chesapeake requires substantial expenditures to replace reserves, sustain production and fund its business plans. Low oil, natural gas and NGL prices can negatively affect the amount of cash available for capital expenditures and debt repayment and the ability to borrow money or raise additional capital and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on Chesapeake's financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and reserves and the Trust's reserves and quarterly cash distributions. Historically, the markets for oil, natural gas and NGL have been volatile and they are likely to continue to be volatile. Wide fluctuations in oil, natural gas and NGL prices may result from relatively minor changes in the supply of or demand for oil, natural gas and NGL, market uncertainty and other factors that are beyond the control of the Trust and Chesapeake, including:. • domestic and worldwide supplies of oil, natural gas and NGL, including U.S. inventories of oil and natural gas reserves;. • weather conditions;. • changes in the level of consumer and industrial demand;. • the price and availability of alternative fuels;. 22. • the effectiveness of worldwide conservation measures;. • the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines, other transportation facilities and processing facilities;. • the level and effect of trading in commodity futures markets, including by commodity price speculators and others;. • U.S. exports of oil and/or liquefied natural gas;. • the price and level of foreign imports;. • the nature and extent of domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes;. • the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls;. • political instability or armed conflict in oil and natural gas producing regions;. • acts of terrorism; and. • domestic and global economic conditions.. These factors and the volatility of the energy markets make it extremely difficult to predict future oil, natural gas and NGL price movements with any certainty. Oil and natural gas prices remained low throughout 2016 and 2017.. Lower oil, natural gas and NGL prices have reduced, and could continue to reduce, proceeds to which the Trust is entitled and may ultimately reduce the amount of oil, natural gas and NGL that is economic to produce from the Underlying Properties. As a result, Chesapeake or any third-party operator of any of the Underlying Properties could determine during periods of low oil, natural gas and NGL prices to shut in or curtail production from wells on the Underlying Properties. In addition, the operator of the Underlying Properties could determine during periods of low oil, natural gas and NGL prices to plug and abandon marginal wells that otherwise may have been allowed to continue to produce for a longer period under conditions of higher prices. Specifically, Chesapeake or any third-party operator may abandon any well or property if it reasonably believes that the well or property can no longer produce oil, natural gas and NGL in commercially economic quantities. This could result in termination of the portion of the Royalty Interests relating to the abandoned well or property, and Chesapeake would have no obligation to drill a replacement well. The volatility of oil, natural gas and NGL prices also reduces the accuracy of target distributions used to calculate the subordination and incentive thresholds.. Actual reserves and future production may be less than current estimates, which could reduce cash distributions by the Trust and the value of the Trust units.. The value of the Trust units and the amount of future cash distributions to the Trust unitholders will depend upon, among other things, the accuracy of the future production estimated to be attributable to the Royalty Interests. The future production estimates are based on estimates of reserve quantities for the Underlying Properties. Estimates of proved reserves and estimated future net revenues from proved reserves are based upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC relating to oil, natural gas and NGL prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The process of estimating oil, natural gas and NGL reserves is complex and involves significant decisions and assumptions associated with geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each well. Therefore, these estimates are subject to further revisions.. Actual future production attributable to the Royalty Interests, oil, natural gas and NGL prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil, natural gas and NGL reserves most likely will vary from these estimates. Such variations may be significant and could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of proved reserves. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development drilling, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.. As of December 31, 2017, none of the Trust's estimated proved reserves were undeveloped.. The present values included in this report do not represent the current market value of the Trust's estimated reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, the estimates of our present values are based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimates. The price on the date of estimate is calculated as the average oil and natural gas price. 23. during the 12 months ending in the current reporting period, determined as the unweighted arithmetic average of prices on the first day of each month within the 12-month period. The December 31, 2017 present value is based on $51.34 per bbl of oil and $2.98 per mcf of natural gas before basis differential adjustments. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs as of the date of an estimate.. The timing of both the production and the expenses from the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect both the timing of actual future net cash flows from our proved reserves and their present value. Any changes in consumption or in governmental regulations will also affect the actual future net cash flows from our production. In addition, the 10% discount factor which is required by the SEC to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor. Interest rates in effect from time to time and the risks associated with our business or the oil and gas industry in general will affect the appropriateness of the 10% discount factor.. Reserve estimates for fields that do not have a lengthy production history are less reliable than estimates for fields with lengthy production histories. A lack of production history may contribute to inaccuracy in estimates of proved reserves, future production rates and the timing of development expenditures. Most of the Producing Wells, as defined by the SEC, have been operational for a relatively short period of time and estimated total reserves vary substantially from well to well and are not directly correlated to perforated lateral length or completion technique. There can be no assurance that the data used in preparing these estimates can accurately predict future production. The lack of operational history for horizontal wells in the Colony Granite Wash may also contribute to the inaccuracy of estimates of proved reserves. During 2017, the Trust recorded downward reserve revisions primarily due to a decrease in production offset by higher oil and gas prices. During 2016, the Trust recorded downward reserve revisions primarily due to higher-than-expected pressure depletion within certain areas of the AMI. During 2015, the Trust recorded significant downward reserve revisions primarily due to a decrease in commodity prices and the removal of PUDs that were not part of Chesapeake's drilling plan within the AMI. Future negative well performance or lower expected ultimate recovery could lead to further downward adjustments to our reserve estimates. A material and adverse variance of actual production, revenues and expenditures from those underlying reserve estimates would have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Trust and would reduce cash distributions to Trust unitholders.. Chesapeake's ability to satisfy its obligations to the Trust depends on its financial position, and in the event of Chesapeake's bankruptcy, it may be expensive and time-consuming for the Trust to exercise its remedies, and the Trust may be treated as an unsecured creditor of Chesapeake.. Pursuant to the terms of the development agreement, Chesapeake was obligated to drill and complete, or participate as a non-operator in the drilling and completion of, the Development Wells at its own expense. As of June 30, 2016, Chesapeake had fulfilled its drilling and completion obligation under the development agreement. The conveyances provide that Chesapeake is obligated to market, or cause to be marketed, the oil, natural gas and NGL production related to the Underlying Properties. Due to the Trust's reliance on Chesapeake to fulfill these obligations, the value of the Royalty Interests and its ultimate cash available for distribution is highly dependent on Chesapeake's performance.. Chesapeake's ability to perform its obligations will depend on its future financial condition, economic performance and access to capital, which in turn will depend upon the supply and demand for oil, natural gas and NGL, prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond Chesapeake's control.. The proceeds of the Royalty Interests may be commingled, for a period of time, with proceeds of Chesapeake's retained interest in the Underlying Properties, and Chesapeake will not be required to maintain a segregated account for proceeds payable to the Trust. In the event of a collection proceeding, it is possible that the Trust may not have adequate facts to trace its entitlement to funds in the commingled pool of funds and that other persons may, in asserting claims against Chesapeake's retained interest, be able to assert claims to the proceeds that should be delivered to the Trust. In addition, during any bankruptcy of Chesapeake, it is possible that payments of the royalties may be delayed or deferred. During the pendency of any Chesapeake bankruptcy proceedings, the ability to collect cash payments being held in Chesapeake's accounts that are attributable to production from the Trust properties, and even its ability to demand any of these remedies, may be stayed or prohibited by the bankruptcy proceeding.. In the event of a bankruptcy of Chesapeake or the wholly owned subsidiaries of Chesapeake that conveyed the Royalty Interests to the Trust, the Trust could lose the value of all of the Royalty Interests if a bankruptcy court were. 24. to hold that the Royalty Interests constitute an asset of the bankruptcy estate. Chesapeake and the Trust believe that the Royalty Interests would not be included in any such bankruptcy estate because the recordation of the conveyance of the Royalty Interests in the appropriate real property records in Oklahoma will constitute the conveyance of fully vested real property interests under Oklahoma law or interests in hydrocarbons in place or to be produced under Oklahoma law. Oklahoma law, however, is not entirely clear as to whether an overriding royalty interest is a real property interest. While the Oklahoma Supreme Court has held that royalty interests are real property interests, such cases did not expressly overturn prior Oklahoma Supreme Court cases holding that an overriding royalty interest was not necessarily a real property interest. In the event of a bankruptcy of Chesapeake or the wholly owned subsidiaries of Chesapeake that conveyed the Royalty Interests to the Trust, if a bankruptcy court held that (a) the Royalty Interests did not constitute fully vested real property interests or interests in hydrocarbons in place or to be produced or (b) the Royalty Interests were not otherwise eligible to be excluded from the bankruptcy estate under federal bankruptcy law, the Royalty Interests may be treated as unsecured claims of the Trust against Chesapeake. If that were the case, creditors of Chesapeake would be able to claim the Royalty Interests as an asset of the bankruptcy estate to be sold to satisfy obligations to them and the Trust could lose the entire value of the Royalty Interests to senior creditors of Chesapeake.. Chesapeake may not serve as the operator of as many of the Developmental Wells as it expects and Chesapeake will rely upon unaffiliated third parties, who may be less qualified, to operate the Development Wells.. Pursuant to the development agreement between Chesapeake and the Trust, Chesapeake was obligated to, and did, drill and complete the equivalent of 118 Development Wells in the AMI as of June 30, 2016. Certain Development Wells drilled by Chesapeake are currently operated by third-party operators. The failure of an operator to adequately perform operations could reduce production from the Underlying Properties and the cash available for distribution to Trust unitholders.. Because Chesapeake does not have a majority working interest in most of the non-operated properties comprising the Underlying Properties, Chesapeake may not be able to remove the operator in the event of poor or untimely performance. The failure of an operator to adequately perform operations could reduce the revenues distributable to the Trust and the amount of cash distributable to the Trust unitholders.. Production of oil, natural gas and NGL on the Underlying Properties could be materially and adversely affected by severe or unseasonable weather.. Production of oil, natural gas and NGL on the Underlying Properties could be materially and adversely affected by severe or unseasonable weather. Repercussions of severe weather conditions may include:. • evacuation of personnel and curtailment of operations;. • weather-related damage to facilities, resulting in suspension of operations;. • inability to deliver materials to worksites; and. • weather-related damage to pipelines and other transportation facilities.. Due to the Trust's lack of industry and geographic diversification, adverse developments in the Trust's existing area of operation could adversely impact its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and reduce its ability to make distributions to the unitholders.. The Underlying Properties are operated for oil, natural gas and NGL production and are focused exclusively in the Colony Granite Wash in Washita County in the Anadarko Basin of western Oklahoma. This concentration could disproportionately expose the Trust's interests to operational and regulatory risk in that area. Due to the lack of diversification in industry type and location of the Trust's interests, adverse developments in the oil, natural gas and NGL markets or the area of the Underlying Properties, including, for example, transportation or treatment capacity constraints, curtailment of production or treatment plant closures for scheduled maintenance, could have a significantly greater impact on the Trust's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows than if the Royalty Interests were more diversified.. 25. The generation of proceeds for distribution by the Trust depends in part on access to and the operation of gathering, transportation and processing facilities. Any limitation in the availability of those facilities could interfere with sales of oil, natural gas and NGL production from the Underlying Properties.. The amount of oil, natural gas and NGL that may be produced and sold from any well to which the Underlying Properties relate is subject to the availability of gathering, transportation and processing facilities. Even where such facilities are available, services from such facilities are subject to curtailment in certain circumstances, such as by reason of weather conditions, pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, failure of tendered oil, natural gas and NGL to meet quality specifications of gathering lines or downstream transporters, excessive line pressure which prevents delivery or physical damage to the gathering system or transportation system. The curtailments may vary from a few days to several months. In many cases, Chesapeake or a third-party operator is provided limited notice, if any, as to when production will be curtailed and the duration of such curtailments. If Chesapeake or a third-party operator is forced to reduce production due to such a curtailment, the revenues of the Trust and the amount of cash distributions to the Trust unitholders would similarly be reduced due to the reduction of proceeds from the sale of production. Moreover, Chesapeake currently ships all of its natural gas production from the Underlying Properties to market through one pipeline provider and sells all of its oil production from the Underlying Properties to one purchaser. Although Chesapeake currently does not have any material production shut-in and does not shut in production on a routine basis as a result of lack of accessibility to transportation or lack of processing facilities, there can be no assurance this will be the case in the future.. The Trust units may lose value and cash available for distribution may be reduced as a result of title deficiencies with respect to the Underlying Properties.. The existence of a title deficiency with respect to the Underlying Properties could reduce the value or render a property worthless, thus adversely affecting the distributions to unitholders. Chesapeake does not obtain title insurance covering oil, natural gas and mineral leaseholds. Chesapeake's inability or failure to cure title defects could cause Chesapeake to lose its rights to some or all production from some of the Underlying Properties, which could result in a reduction in proceeds available for distribution to unitholders and the value of the Trust units may be reduced.. The Trust is passive in nature and will have no stockholder voting rights in Chesapeake, managerial, contractual or other ability to influence Chesapeake, or control over the field operations of, sales of oil, natural gas and NGL from, or development of, the Underlying Properties.. Trust unitholders have no voting rights with respect to Chesapeake securities and will have no managerial, contractual or other ability to influence Chesapeake's activities or operations of the Underlying Properties. In addition, some of the Development Wells are currently operated by third parties unrelated to Chesapeake. Such third-party operators may not have the operational expertise of Chesapeake within the AMI. Oil and natural gas properties are typically managed pursuant to an operating agreement among the working interest owners in the properties. The typical operating agreement contains procedures whereby the owners of the aggregate working interest in the property designate one of the interest owners to be the operator of the property. Under these arrangements, the operator is typically responsible for making all decisions relating to drilling activities, sale of production, compliance with regulatory requirements and other matters that affect the property. Neither the Trustee nor the Trust unitholders have any contractual ability to influence or control the field operations of, sales of oil, natural gas and NGL from, or future development of, the Underlying Properties.. The oil, natural gas and NGL reserves estimated to be attributable to the Underlying Properties are depleting assets and production from those reserves will diminish over time. Furthermore, the Trust is precluded from acquiring other oil and natural gas properties or royalty interests to replace the depleting assets and production.. The proceeds payable to the Trust from the Royalty Interests are derived from the sale of the production of oil, natural gas and NGL from the Underlying Properties. The oil, natural gas and NGL reserves attributable to the Underlying Properties are depleting assets, which means that the reserves of oil, natural gas and NGL attributable to the Underlying Properties will decline over time. As a result, the quantity of oil, natural gas and NGL produced from the Underlying Properties will decline over time.. Future maintenance may affect the quantity of proved reserves that can be economically produced from the Underlying Properties to which the wells relate. The timing and size of these projects will depend on, among other. 26. factors, the market prices of oil, natural gas and NGL. Chesapeake has no contractual obligation to the Trust to make capital expenditures on the Underlying Properties in the future. Furthermore, for properties on which Chesapeake is not designated as the operator, Chesapeake has no control over the timing or amount of those capital expenditures. Chesapeake also has the right not to participate in the capital expenditures on properties for which it is not the operator, in which case Chesapeake and the Trust will not receive the production resulting from such capital expenditures. If Chesapeake or other operators of the wells to which the Underlying Properties relate do not implement maintenance projects when warranted, the future rate of production decline of proved reserves may be higher than the rate currently expected by Chesapeake or estimated in the reserve reports.. The Trust Agreement provides that the Trust's business activities are generally limited to owning the Royalty Interests and entering into the derivative contracts and activities reasonably related thereto, including activities required or permitted by the terms of the conveyances related to the Royalty Interests. As a result, the Trust is not permitted to acquire other oil and natural gas properties or royalty interests to replace the depleting assets and production attributable to the Trust.. An increase in the differential between the prices realized by Chesapeake for oil, natural gas and NGL produced from the Underlying Properties and the NYMEX or other benchmark price of oil or natural gas could reduce the proceeds to the Trust and therefore the cash distributions by the Trust and the value of Trust units.. The prices received for Chesapeake's oil, natural gas and NGL production in Oklahoma usually fall below benchmark prices, such as NYMEX. The difference between the price received and the benchmark price is called a differential. The amount of the differential will depend on a variety of factors, including discounts based on the quality and location of hydrocarbons produced, btu content, post-production expenses and production taxes. These factors can cause differentials to be volatile from period to period. Chesapeake has little or no control over the factors that determine the amount of the differential, and cannot accurately predict natural gas or crude oil differentials. Increases in the differential between the realized price of oil, natural gas and NGL and the benchmark price for oil, natural gas and NGL could reduce the proceeds to the Trust and therefore the cash distributions by the Trust and the value of the Trust units.. The amount of cash available for distribution by the Trust will be reduced by post-production expenses and applicable taxes associated with the Royalty Interests and Trust expenses.. The Royalty Interests and the Trust will bear certain costs and expenses that will reduce the amount of cash received by or available for distribution by the Trust to the holders of the Trust units. These costs and expenses include the following:. • the Trust's share of the expenses incurred by Chesapeake to gather, store, compress, transport, process, treat, dehydrate and market the oil, natural gas and NGL (excluding costs of marketing services provided by Chesapeake);. • the Trust's share of applicable taxes on the oil, natural gas and NGL; and. • Trust administrative expenses, including fees paid to the Trustee and the Delaware Trustee, the annual administrative services fee payable to Chesapeake, tax return and Schedule K-1 preparation and mailing costs, independent auditor fees and registrar and transfer agent fees, costs associated with annual and quarterly reports to unitholders and certain internal expenses of the Trust incurred pursuant to the registration rights agreement.. In addition, the amount of funds available for distribution to unitholders will be reduced by the amount of any cash reserves maintained by the Trustee in respect of anticipated future Trust expenses.. The amount of costs and expenses borne by the Trust may vary materially from quarter to quarter. The extent by which the costs and expenses of the Trust are higher or lower in any quarter will directly decrease or increase the amount received by the Trust and available for distribution to the unitholders. Historical post-production expenses and taxes, however, may not be indicative of future post-production expenses and taxes.. 27. The Trustee may, under certain circumstances, sell the Royalty Interests and dissolve the Trust; otherwise, the Trust will begin to liquidate following the end of the 20-year period in which the Trust owns the Term Royalties.. The Royalty Interests will be sold and the Trust will be dissolved upon the occurrence of certain events. For example, the Trustee must sell the Royalty Interests if unitholders approve the sale or vote to dissolve the Trust. The Trustee must also sell the Royalty Interests if cash available for distribution is less than $1.0 million in each of any four consecutive quarters. The sale of all of the Royalty Interests will result in the dissolution of the Trust. Upon the dissolution of the Trust, the net proceeds of any such sale, after the payment of Trust liabilities, will be distributed to the Trust unitholders pro rata and unitholders will not be entitled to receive any proceeds from the sale of production from the Underlying Properties following such date. If none of these events occur, the Trust will dissolve on the Termination Date.. In connection with the dissolution of the Trust on the Termination Date, the Term Royalties will automatically revert to Chesapeake, while the Perpetual Royalties will be sold and the proceeds will be distributed to the unitholders (including Chesapeake to the extent of any Trust units it owns) at the date the Trust dissolves or soon thereafter. The price received by the Trust from any purchaser of the Perpetual Royalties will depend, among other things, on the prices of oil, natural gas and NGL at that time. There can be no assurance that the prices of oil, natural gas and NGL will be at levels such that Trust unitholders will receive any particular amount of cash in return for the Trust's sale of the Perpetual Royalties.. Chesapeake will have a right of first refusal to purchase the Perpetual Royalties upon the dissolution of the Trust, which may reduce the inclination of third parties to place a bid, and thereby reduce the value received by the Trust in a sale. If the Trustee receives a bid from a proposed purchaser other than Chesapeake and wants to sell all or part of the Perpetual Royalties to such third party, the Trustee will be required to give notice to Chesapeake and identify the proposed purchaser and proposed sale price, and other terms of the bid.. The Trust is managed by a Trustee who cannot be replaced except at a special meeting of Trust unitholders.. The business and affairs of the Trust are managed by the Trustee. Voting rights as a Trust unitholder are more limited than those of stockholders of most public corporations. For example, there is no requirement for annual meetings of Trust unitholders, and the Trust does not currently anticipate holding annual meetings. Likewise, there is no requirement for an annual or other periodic re-election of the Trustee. The Trust Agreement provides that the Trustee may only be removed and replaced by the holders of a majority of the outstanding Trust units, excluding Trust units held by Chesapeake, voting in person or by proxy at a special meeting of Trust unitholders at which a quorum is present called by either the Trustee or the holders of not less than 10% of the outstanding Trust units. As a result, it may be difficult for public unitholders to remove or replace the Trustee without the cooperation of holders of a substantial percentage of the outstanding Trust units.. Trust unitholders have limited ability to enforce provisions of the Royalty Interest conveyances, and Chesapeake's liability to the Trust is limited.. The Trust Agreement permits the Trustee and the Trust to sue Chesapeake or any other future owner of the Underlying Properties to enforce the terms of the conveyances creating the Royalty Interests. If the Trustee does not take appropriate action to enforce provisions of these conveyances, a Trust unitholder's recourse would be limited to bringing a lawsuit against the Trust or the Trustee to compel the Trust or the Trustee to take specified actions. The Trust Agreement expressly limits a Trust unitholder's ability to directly sue Chesapeake or any other party other than the Trustee. As a result, Trust unitholders will not be able to sue Chesapeake or any future owner of the Underlying Properties to enforce the Trust's rights under the conveyances. Furthermore, the Royalty Interest conveyances prohibit recovery of certain types of damages, such as consequential and punitive damages, and provide that, except as set forth in the conveyances, Chesapeake will not be liable to the Trust for the manner in which it performs its duties in operating the Underlying Properties as long as it acts in good faith and in accordance with the reasonably prudent operator standard under the development agreement and, to the fullest extent permitted by law, will owe no fiduciary duties to the Trust or the unitholders.. 28. Courts outside of Delaware may not recognize the limited liability of the Trust unitholders provided under Delaware law.. Under the Delaware Statutory Trust Act, Trust unitholders are entitled to the same limitation of personal liability extended to stockholders of private corporations for profit under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. No assurance can be given, however, that the courts in jurisdictions outside of Delaware will give effect to such limitation.. Chesapeake may sell Trust units in the public or private markets and such sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units.. Chesapeake owns 23,750,000 common units. Chesapeake may sell Trust units in the public or private markets, and any such sales could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units or on any trading market that may develop. The Trust has granted registration rights to Chesapeake, which, if exercised, would facilitate sales of Trust units by Chesapeake to the public.. Conflicts of interest could arise between Chesapeake and the Trust.. Chesapeake could have interests that conflict with the interests of the Trust and the Trust unitholders. For example:. • Chesapeake's interests may conflict with those of the Trust and the Trust unitholders in situations involving the development, maintenance, operation or abandonment of the Underlying Properties. For example, Chesapeake may abandon a well that is no longer producing in paying quantities even though such well is still generating revenue for the Trust unitholders. Chesapeake may make decisions with respect to expenditures and decisions to allocate resources to projects in other areas that adversely affect the Underlying Properties, including reducing expenditures on these properties, which could cause oil, natural gas and NGL production to decline at a faster rate and thereby result in lower cash distributions by the Trust in the future.. • Chesapeake may, without the consent or approval of the Trust unitholders, sell all or any part of its retained interest in the Underlying Properties, subject to and burdened by the Royalty Interests. Although Chesapeake must require any purchaser of its retained interest in the Underlying Properties to assume Chesapeake's obligations with respect to those properties, such sale may not be in the best interests of the Trust and the Trust unitholders. Any purchaser may lack Chesapeake's experience in the Colony Granite Wash or its creditworthiness.. • Chesapeake may, without the consent or approval of the Trust unitholders, require the Trust to release Royalty Interests with an aggregate value of up to $5.0 million during any 12-month period in connection with a sale by Chesapeake of a portion of its retained interest in the Underlying Properties. Although these releases are conditioned upon the Trust receiving an amount equal to the fair value to the Trust of such Royalty Interests, the fair value received by the Trust for such Royalty Interests may not fully compensate the Trust for the value of future production attributable to the Royalty Interests disposed of.. • Chesapeake can sell its Trust units regardless of the effects such sale may have on common unit prices or on the Trust itself. Additionally, once Chesapeake is allowed to vote its Trust units, Chesapeake can vote its Trust units in its sole discretion.. In addition, Chesapeake has agreed that, if at any time the Trust's cash on hand (including available cash reserves) is not sufficient to pay the Trust's ordinary course expenses as they become due, it will lend funds to the Trust necessary to pay such expenses. Any such loan will be on an unsecured basis, and the terms of such loan will be substantially the same as those which would be obtained in an arms' length transaction between Chesapeake and an unaffiliated third party. If Chesapeake provides such funds to the Trust, it would become a creditor of the Trust and its interests as a creditor could conflict with the interests of unitholders. There were no loans outstanding as of December 31, 2017 or December 31, 2016.. Chesapeake may sell all or a portion of its retained interest in the Underlying Properties, subject to and burdened by the Royalty Interests; any such purchaser could have a weaker financial position and/or be less experienced in oil, natural gas and NGL development and production than Chesapeake.. Trust unitholders will not be entitled to vote on any sale by Chesapeake of its retained interest in the Underlying Properties and the Trust will not receive any proceeds from any such sale. The purchaser would be responsible for all. 29. of Chesapeake's obligations relating to the Royalty Interests on the portion of the Underlying Properties sold, including Chesapeake's obligation to operate the Underlying Properties sold in accordance with the Reasonably Prudent Operator Standard under the development agreement and Chesapeake's true-up obligations with respect to the Underlying Properties sold, and Chesapeake would have no continuing obligation to the Trust for those properties. Additionally, Chesapeake may enter into farmout or participation arrangements with respect to the wells burdened by the Royalty Interests. Any purchaser, farmout counterparty or participating partner could have a weaker financial position and/or be less experienced in oil, natural gas and NGL development and production in the Colony Granite Wash than Chesapeake, which could result in a decrease in production from the Underlying Properties sold and a corresponding decrease in cash available for distribution to the Trust's unitholders. Additionally, in the event that Chesapeake enters into such a farmout or participation agreement, the Royalty Interests will not burden any interests that the counterparty earns under such an agreement.. Oil and natural gas producing operations can be hazardous and may expose Chesapeake to liabilities.. Oil and natural gas producing operations are subject to many risks, including well blowouts, cratering and explosions, pipe failures, fires, formations with abnormal pressures, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine or well fluids, oil spills, severe weather, natural disasters, groundwater contamination and other environmental hazards and risks. Some of these risks or hazards could materially and adversely affect Chesapeake's revenues and expenses by reducing or shutting in production from wells, loss of equipment or otherwise negatively impacting the projected economic performance of its prospects. For non-operated properties, Chesapeake is dependent on the operator for operational and regulatory compliance. A temporary or permanent halt of the production and sales of oil, natural gas and NGL at any of the Underlying Properties could also reduce Trust distributions by reducing the amount of proceeds available for distribution.. If any of these risks occurs, Chesapeake could sustain substantial losses as a result of:. • injury or loss of life;. • severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources or equipment;. • pollution or other environmental damage;. • clean-up responsibilities;. • regulatory investigations and administrative, civil and criminal penalties; and. • injunctions resulting in limitation or suspension of operations.. A material event such as those described above could expose Chesapeake to liabilities, monetary penalties or interruptions in its business operations. While Chesapeake may maintain insurance against some, but not all, of the risks described above, its insurance may not be adequate to cover casualty losses or liabilities, and its insurance does not cover penalties or fines that may be assessed by a governmental authority. For certain risks, such as political risk, business interruption, war, terrorism and piracy, Chesapeake has limited or no insurance coverage. Also, in the future Chesapeake may not be able to obtain insurance at premium levels that justify its purchase. The occurrence of a significant event against which Chesapeake is not fully insured may expose it to liabilities.. The ability of the Underlying Properties to produce oil, natural gas and NGL economically and in commercial quantities could be impaired if Chesapeake is unable to acquire adequate supplies of water or is unable to dispose of or recycle the water it uses economically and in an environmentally safe matter.. Development activities require the use of water. For example, hydraulic fracturing requires the use and disposal of significant quantities of water. In certain areas, there may be insufficient local aquifer capacity to provide a source of water for operations. Chesapeake's inability to secure sufficient amounts of water, or to dispose of or recycle the water used in its operations, could adversely impact the development of the Underlying Properties. The imposition of new environmental initiatives and regulations, such as the Oklahoma Corporation Commission volume reduction plans for oil and natural gas disposal wells injecting wastewater into the Arbuckle formation and the EPA's June 2016 pretreatment standards for wastewater, could further restrict Chesapeake's ability to conduct certain operations such as hydraulic fracturing or disposal of waste, including, but not limited to, produced water and other materials associated with the exploration, development or production of oil and natural gas.. 30. Potential legislative and regulatory actions addressing climate change could significantly impact the oil and gas industry and Chesapeake, causing increased costs and reduced demand for oil and natural gas.. Various state governments and regional organizations have considered enacting new legislation and promulgating new regulations governing or restricting the emission of greenhouse gases from stationary sources such as our equipment and operations. At the federal level, the EPA has issued regulations that require us to establish and report a prescribed inventory of greenhouse gas emissions and published a final rule in June 2016 to reduce methane emissions from oil and gas production. The EPA more recently published a proposal to stay certain portions of the rule. As a result, the implications of the 2016 standards are uncertain. Additional legislative and/or regulatory proposals for restricting greenhouse gas emissions or otherwise addressing climate change could require us to incur additional operating costs and could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas that we sell. The potential increase in our operating costs could include new or increased costs to obtain permits, operate and maintain our equipment and facilities, install new emission controls on our equipment and facilities, acquire allowances to authorize our greenhouse gas emissions, pay taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions and administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. Even without federal legislation or regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, states may pursue the issue either directly or indirectly.. The Paris Agreement will require countries to review and \"represent a progression\" in their nationally determined contributions, which set emissions reduction goals, every five years. In August 2017, the United States informed the United Nations of its intent to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. The earliest possible effective withdrawal date from the Paris Agreement is November 2020. The Paris Agreement could further drive regulation in the United States. Restrictions on emissions of methane or carbon dioxide that have been or may be imposed in various states, or at the federal level could adversely affect the oil and gas industry. Moreover, incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources as a means of addressing climate change could reduce demand for oil and natural gas. Finally, we note that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as higher sea levels, increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, floods, and other climatic events. If any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Tax Risks Related to the Units. The Trust's tax treatment depends on its status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If the IRS were to treat the Trust as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or the Trust were subjected to state or local entity level tax, then its cash available for distribution to Trust unitholders would be substantially reduced.. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the Trust units depends largely on the Trust being treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The Trust has not requested, and does not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter affecting it.. It is possible in certain circumstances for a publicly traded Trust otherwise treated as a partnership, such as the Trust, to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Although the Trust does not believe based upon its current activities that such treatment is applicable to it, a change in current law could cause it to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject it to taxation as an entity.. If the Trust were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, it would pay federal income tax on its taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which for tax years beginning after 2017 is 21%, and would likely be required to pay state income tax on its taxable income at the corporate tax rate in Oklahoma. Distributions to Trust unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to Trust unitholders without first being subjected to taxation at the entity level. Because a tax would be imposed upon the Trust as a corporation, its cash available for distribution to Trust unitholders would be substantially reduced. In addition, changes in current state law may subject the Trust to additional entity-level taxation by individual states. Because of state budget deficits and other reasons, several states have been evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Imposition of any such taxes may substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to Trust unitholders. Therefore, if the Trust were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subjected to a material amount of entity-level taxation, there would be a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the Trust unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of the Trust units.. 31. The U.S. federal income tax treatment of the Development Royalty Interest is not entirely free from doubt. A successful challenge by the IRS to the tax position the Trust takes with respect to the Development Royalty Interest could affect the amount, timing and character of income, gain or loss relating to an investment in Trust units.. The U.S. federal income tax laws and precedents applicable to the tax treatment of royalty interests in wells that will be drilled in the future are not well established. As a result, the tax treatment of the Development Royalty Interest is not entirely free from doubt. A successful challenge by the IRS to the tax position the Trust takes with respect to the Development Royalty Interest could negatively affect the amount, timing and character of income, gain or loss relating to a unitholder's investment in Trust units, which could increase or accelerate the amount of federal income tax payable on a unitholder's share of the Trust's income.. The tax treatment of an investment in Trust units could be affected by recent and potential legislative changes, possibly on a retroactive basis.. U.S. federal tax reform legislation informally known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") was enacted December 22, 2017, and makes significant changes to the federal income tax rules applicable to both individuals and entities, including changes to the effective tax rate on an individual or other non-corporate unitholder's allocable share of certain income from a publicly traded partnership. The Tax Act is complex and lacks administrative guidance, thus, unitholders should consult their tax advisor regarding the Tax Act and its effect on an investment in Trust units.. For taxable years beginning after 2017, the highest marginal U.S. federal income tax rates applicable to ordinary income and long-term capital gains of individuals are 37% and 20%, respectively. Individual unitholders may be eligible for a deduction for tax years beginning after 2017 generally equal to 20% of the Trust's domestic income and 20% of any recapture income of the unitholder on the sale of Trust units, which could reduce the individual's effective tax rate on income from the Trust. However, such deduction will not be available after 2025 unless Congress extends it. In addition, an individual having adjusted gross income in excess of $200,000 (or $250,000 for married taxpayers filing joint returns) is subject to the Net Investment Income Tax of 3.8% on the lesser of such excess or the individual's net investment income. For these purposes, net investment income generally includes interest income and royalty income derived from the Trust units as well as any net gain from the disposition of Trust units.. With respect to Oklahoma production tax, it has been assumed that the effective tax rate on the oil, natural gas and NGL attributable to the Trust will be approximately 2.0% for the first three years of production for each well spudded on or after July 1, 2015, and approximately 7.0% thereafter. These rates are subject to change by new legislation at any time.. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including the Trust, or an investment in the Trust units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. For example, from time to time, the President and members of Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. Further, final regulations under Section 7704(d)(1)(E) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, interpret the scope of the qualifying income requirements for publicly traded partnerships by providing industry-specific guidance.. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws or interpretations thereof (including administrative guidance relating to the Tax Act) may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible for the Trust to meet the exception for certain publicly traded partnerships to be treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The Trust is unable to predict whether any changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted, or whether any adverse interpretations will be used. Any such changes or interpretations could negatively impact the value of an investment in the Trust units.. If the IRS contests the tax positions the Trust takes, the value of the Trust units may be adversely affected, the cost of any IRS contest will reduce the Trust's cash available for distribution to Trust unitholders.. The Trust has not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to its treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting the Trust. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the conclusions of the Trust's counsel expressed in the federal income tax considerations section in the prospectus or form the positions the Trust takes. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to attempt to sustain some or all of the conclusions of the Trust's counsel or the positions the Trust takes. A court may not agree with some or all of the conclusions of the Trust's counsel or the positions the Trust takes. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely. 32. impact the market for the Trust units and the price at which they trade. In addition, the Trust's costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by the Trust unitholders because the costs will reduce the Trust's cash available for distribution.. For tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, if the IRS makes audit adjustments to the Trust's income tax returns, it (and some states) may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustment directly from the Trust. To the extent possible under the new rules, the Trust may elect to either pay the taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly to the IRS or, if eligible, issue a revised Schedule K-1 to each unitholder with respect to an audited and adjusted return. Although the Trust may elect to have Trust unitholders take such audit adjustment into account in accordance with their interests in us during the tax year under audit, there can be no assurance that such election will be practical, permissible or effective in all circumstances. As a result, current Trust unitholders may bear some or all of the tax liability resulting from such audit adjustment, even if such Trust unitholders did not own units in the Trust during the tax year under audit. If, as a result of any such audit adjustment, the Trust is required to make payments of taxes, penalties and interest, cash available for distribution to Trust unitholders might be substantially reduced. These rules are not applicable for tax years beginning on or prior to December 31, 2017.. Trust unitholders will be required to pay taxes on their share of the Trust's income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from the Trust.. Because the Trust unitholders will be treated as partners to whom the Trust will allocate taxable income that could be different in amount than the cash the Trust distributes, Trust unitholders will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of the Trust's taxable income even if they receive no cash distributions from the Trust. Trust unitholders may not receive cash distributions from the Trust equal to their share of the Trust's taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income.. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of the Trust units could be more or less than expected.. Trust unitholders that sell their Trust units will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and the tax basis in those Trust units. Because distributions in excess of the Trust unitholders allocable share of the Trust's net taxable income decrease the tax basis in such Trust unitholders' Trust units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the Trust units sold will, in effect, become taxable income if Trust units are sold at a price greater than the tax basis in those Trust units, even if the price received is less than the original cost of the Trust units. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depletion recapture.. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning the Trust units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.. Investment in Trust units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons could result in differing tax consequences. For example, some of the Trust income allocated to organizations exempt from U.S. federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, may be unrelated business taxable income which would be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons may be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of the Trust's taxable income or proceeds from the sale of Trust units.. The Trust will treat each purchaser of Trust units as having the same economic attributes without regard to the actual Trust units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the Trust units.. Due to a number of factors, including the Trust's inability to match transferors and transferees of Trust units, the Trust has adopted positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely alter the tax effects of an investment in Trust units. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of Trust units by Trust unitholders and could have a negative impact on the value of the Trust units or result in audit adjustments to Trust unitholders tax returns.. 33. The Trust prorates its items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of the Trust units each quarter based upon the record ownership of the Trust units on the quarterly record date in such quarter, instead of on the basis of the date a particular Trust unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among the Trust unitholders.. The Trust prorates its items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of the Trust units based upon the record ownership of the Trust units on the quarterly record date in such quarter instead of on the basis of the date a particular Trust unit is transferred.. Final Treasury Regulations allow publicly traded partnerships to use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferors and transferees, although these regulations do not specifically authorize all aspects of the proration method the Trust has adopted. If the IRS were to challenge the Trust's proration method, the Trust may be required to change its allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among the Trust unitholders and the costs to the Trust of implementing and reporting under any such changed method may be significant.. A Trust unitholder whose Trust units are loaned to a \"short seller\" to cover a short sale of Trust units may be considered as having disposed of those Trust units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those Trust units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.. Because a Trust unitholder whose Trust units are loaned to a \"short seller\" to cover a short sale of Trust units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned Trust units, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those Trust units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of the Trust's income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those Trust units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those Trust units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. The Trust's counsel has not rendered an opinion regarding the treatment of a unitholder where Trust units are loaned to a short seller to cover a short sale of Trust units; therefore, Trust unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from loaning their Trust units.. The Trust has adopted certain valuation methodologies that may affect the income, gain, loss and deduction allocable to the Trust unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the Trust units.. The U.S. federal income tax consequences of the ownership and disposition of Trust units will depend in part on the Trust's estimates of the relative fair market values, and the initial tax bases of the Trust's assets. Although the Trust may from time to time consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, the Trust will make many of the relative fair market value estimates itself. These estimates and determinations of basis are subject to challenge and will not be binding on the IRS or the courts. If the estimates of fair market value or basis are later found to be incorrect, the character and amount of items of income, gain, loss or deductions previously reported by Trust unitholders might change, and Trust unitholders might be required to adjust their tax liability for prior years and incur interest and penalties with respect to those adjustments.. Trust unitholders may be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where they do not live as a result of investing in Trust units.. In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, Trust unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including Oklahoma state income taxes, even if they do not live in Oklahoma. Trust unitholders will likely be required to file Oklahoma state income tax returns and pay Oklahoma state income tax. Further, Trust unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. It is each Trust unitholder's responsibility to file all U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S. tax returns.. 34"
