[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.. The following is a discussion of the primary factors that may affect the operations and/or financial performance of our regulated and unregulated energy businesses. Refer to the section entitled Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this report for an additional discussion of these and other related factors that affect our operations and/or financial performance.. FINANCIAL RISKS. Instability and volatility in the financial markets could negatively impact our ability to access capital at competitive rates, which could affect our ability to implement our strategic plan, undertake improvements and make other investments required for our future growth.. Our business strategy includes the continued pursuit of growth, both organically and through acquisitions. To the extent that we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, we may incur additional indebtedness to finance our growth. We rely on access to both short-term and long-term capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements beyond the cash flows generated from our operations.. In addition, our ability to obtain adequate and cost-effective capital depends on our credit ratings, which are greatly affected by our financial performance and the liquidity of financial markets. A downgrade in our current credit ratings could adversely affect our access to capital markets, as well as our cost of capital. If we are not able to access capital at competitive rates, our ability to implement our strategic plan, undertake improvements and make other investments required for our future growth may be limited.. Our natural gas marketing subsidiary is exposed to market risks beyond our control, which could adversely affect our financial results and capital requirements.. Our natural gas marketing subsidiary is subject to market risks beyond our control, including market liquidity and commodity price volatility. Although we maintain a risk management policy, we may not be able to offset completely the price risk associated with volatile commodity prices, which could lead to volatility in earnings. Physical trading also has price risk on any net open positions at the end of each trading day, as well as volatility resulting from (i) intra-day fluctuations of natural gas prices, and (ii) daily price movements between the time natural gas is purchased or sold for future delivery and the time the related purchase or sale is economically hedged. The determination of our net open position at the end of any trading day requires us to make assumptions as to future circumstances, including the use of natural gas by our customers in relation to anticipated market positions. Because the price risk associated with any net open position at the end of such day may increase if the assumptions are not realized, we review these assumptions daily. Net open positions may increase volatility in our financial condition or results of operations if market prices move in a significantly favorable or unfavorable manner, because the changes in fair value of trading contracts are immediately recognized as profits or losses for financial accounting purposes. This volatility may occur, with a resulting increase or decrease in earnings or losses, even though the expected profit margin is essentially unchanged from the date the transactions were consummated.. Chesapeake Utilities Corporation 2017 Form 10-K     Page. 12. Table of Contents. Our natural gas marketing subsidiary is exposed to the credit risk of its counterparties.. Our natural gas marketing subsidiary extends credit to counterparties and continually monitors and manages collections aggressively. There is risk that our subsidiary may not be able to collect amounts owed to it. If the counter-party to such a transaction fails to perform, and any underlying collateral is inadequate, we could experience financial losses, which would negatively impact our results of operations.. Our natural gas marketing subsidiary is dependent upon the availability of credit to successfully operate its business.. Our natural gas marketing subsidiary is dependent upon the availability of credit to buy natural gas for resale or to trade. If financial market conditions decline generally, or the financial condition of this subsidiary or of our Company declines, then the cost of credit could increase. If credit is not available, or if credit is more costly, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely affected.. Fluctuations in propane gas prices could negatively affect results or operations.. To compensate for fluctuations in propane gas prices, we adjust our propane selling prices to the extent allowed by the market. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to increase propane sales prices sufficiently to compensate fully for such fluctuations in the cost of propane gas to us. If we are unable to increase propane sales prices sufficiently to compensate fully for such fluctuations, our earnings could be negatively affected, which would adversely impact our results of operations.. If we fail to comply with our debt covenant obligations, we could experience adverse financial consequences that could affect our liquidity and ability to borrow funds.. Our long-term debt obligations, the Revolver and our committed short-term lines of credit contain financial covenants related to debt-to-capital ratios and interest-coverage ratios. Failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of outstanding debt obligations, a downgrade in our credit rating or the inability to borrow under certain credit agreements. Any such acceleration could cause a material adverse change in our financial condition.. An increase in interest rates may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.. An increase in interest rates, without the recovery of the higher cost of debt in the sales and/or transportation rates we charge our utility customers, could adversely affect future earnings. An increase in short-term interest rates could negatively affect our results of operations, which depend on short-term lines of credit to finance accounts receivable and storage gas inventories and to temporarily finance capital expenditures. Reference should be made to Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for additional information.. Current market conditions could adversely impact the return on plan assets for our pension plans, which may require significant additional funding.. Our pension plans are closed to new employees, and the future benefits are frozen. The costs of providing benefits and related funding requirements of these plans are subject to changes in the market value of the assets that fund the plans and the discount rates used to estimate the pension benefit obligations. The funded status of the plans and the related costs reflected in our financial statements are affected by various factors that are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, particularly in the current economic environment. Future losses of asset values and further declines in discount rates may necessitate accelerated funding of the plans in the future to meet minimum federal government requirements as well as higher pension expense to be recorded in future years. Adverse changes in the asset values and benefit obligations of our pension plans may require us to record higher pension expense and fund obligations earlier than originally planned, which would have an adverse impact on our cash flows from operations, decrease borrowing capacity and increase interest expense.. Changes in tax laws or regulations, including the recently adopted TCJA, may negatively affect our results of operations, net income, financial condition and cash flows.. We are subject to taxation by various taxing authorities at the federal, state and local levels. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law the TCJA, which significantly changes how the U.S. taxes corporations. The TCJA requires complex computations to be performed that were not previously required in U.S. tax law, significant judgments to be made in interpretation  of the provisions of the TCJA, significant estimates in calculations, and the preparation and analysis of information not previously relevant or regularly produced. The U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies could issue guidance on how provisions of the TCJA will be applied or otherwise administered that may differ from our interpretations. As we complete our analysis of the TCJA, collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret any additional guidance, we may make adjustments to. Chesapeake Utilities Corporation 2017 Form 10-K Page. 13. Table of Contents. provisional amounts that we have recorded that may materially impact our provision for income taxes in the period in which adjustments are made.. In addition, beginning in 2018, we expect to incur lower income tax expense, which will generally decrease our regulated energy businesses' projected effective income tax rates. Over time, the TCJA will likely result in lower regulated rates due to lower income tax expense recoveries and the potential refund of deferred income tax regulatory liabilities. We have used our best judgment in attempting to quantify and reserve for these estimated obligations generated by the TCJA. However, a challenge by a taxing authority, our ability to utilize these tax benefits in a different fashion, or a deviation from other tax-related assumptions may cause actual financial results to deviate from previous estimates (see Note 11, Income Taxes, in the consolidated financial statements).. The TCJA is generally expected to result in lower operating cash flows from our regulated energy businesses as a result of the elimination of bonus depreciation and lower customer rates. As a result, we may need to access additional debt and equity capital to meet our financing needs, which we assume will be available.. Our stock price is subject to volatility.. The utility industry and the stock market as a whole have experienced more significant stock price and volume fluctuations that have affected stock prices in ways that may have been unrelated to operating performance. Our stock has experienced increased price and volume volatility as well. However, despite this increased volatility, we believe that our stock price should reflect expectations of future growth and profitability.  We also believe our stock price should reflect expectations that our cash dividend will continue at current levels or grow, although future dividends are subject to declaration by our Board of Directors. We cannot predict the level of volatility in our stock price or volumes traded, which may fluctuate based upon our actual performance, including growth, profitability, and dividends paid, as well as for reasons unrelated to our operating performance or not under our control.. OPERATIONAL RISKS. We are dependent upon construction of new facilities to support future growth in earnings in our natural gas and electric distribution and natural gas transmission operations.. Construction of new facilities required to support future growth is subject to various regulatory and developmental risks, including but not limited to: (i) our ability to obtain timely certificate authorizations, necessary approvals and permits from regulatory agencies and on terms that are acceptable to us; (ii) potential changes in federal, state and local statutes and regulations, including environmental requirements, that prevent a project from proceeding or increase the anticipated cost of the project; (iii) inability to acquire rights-of-way or land rights on a timely basis on terms that are acceptable to us; (iv) lack of anticipated future growth in available natural gas and electricity supply; (v) insufficient customer throughput commitments; and (vi) lack of available and qualified third party contractors could impact timely construction of new facilities.. We operate in a competitive environment, and we may lose customers to competitors.. Natural Gas. Our natural gas transmission and distribution operations compete with interstate pipelines when our transmission and/or distribution customers are located close enough to a competing pipeline to make direct connections economically feasible. Our natural gas marketing operations compete with third-party suppliers to sell natural gas to commercial and industrial customers.  Failure to retain and grow our natural gas customer base would have an adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Electric. While there is active wholesale power sales competition in Florida, our retail electric business through FPU has remained substantially free from direct competition from other electric service providers. Generally, however, our retail electric business through FPU remains subject to competition from other energy sources. Changes in the competitive environment caused by legislation, regulation, market conditions, or initiatives of other electric power providers, particularly with respect to retail competition, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Propane. Our propane distribution operations compete with other propane distributors, primarily on the basis of service and price. Some of our competitors have significantly greater resources. Our ability to grow the propane distribution business is contingent upon capturing additional market share, expanding into new markets, and successfully utilizing pricing programs that retain and grow our customer base. Failure to retain and grow our customer base in our propane distribution operations would have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Chesapeake Utilities Corporation 2017 Form 10-K     Page. 14. Table of Contents. Fluctuations in weather may cause a significant variance in our earnings.. Our natural gas distribution, propane distribution and natural gas supply, gathering and processing operations, are sensitive to fluctuations in weather conditions, which directly influence the volume of natural gas and propane we sell and deliver to our customers. A significant portion of our natural gas and propane distribution revenue is derived from the sales and deliveries to residential and commercial heating customers during the five-month peak heating season (November through March). If the weather is warmer than normal, we sell and deliver less natural gas and propane to customers, and earn less revenue, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. A significant portion of our Ohio natural gas supply, gathering and processing services  revenue is also generated during the five-month peak heating season (November through March) as a result of the natural gas requirements of its key customers, including Columbia Gas of Ohio, various regional marketers, and the CGC.. Our electric distribution operation is also affected by variations in weather conditions generally and unusually severe weather conditions. However, electricity consumption is generally less seasonal than natural gas and propane because it is used for both heating and cooling in our service areas.. Accidents, natural disasters, severe weather (such as a major hurricane) and acts of terrorism could adversely impact earnings.. Inherent in energy transmission and distribution activities are a variety of hazards and operational risks, such as leaks, ruptures, fires, explosions, sabotage and mechanical problems. Natural disasters and severe weather may damage our assets, cause operational interruptions and result in the loss of human life, all of which could negatively affect our earnings, financial condition and results of operations. Acts of terrorism and the impact of retaliatory military and other action by the United States and its allies may lead to increased political, economic and financial market instability and volatility in the price of natural gas, electricity and propane that could negatively affect our operations. Companies in the energy industry may face a heightened risk of exposure to acts of terrorism, which could affect our earnings, financial condition and results of operations. The insurance industry may also be affected by natural disasters, severe weather and acts of terrorism; as a result, the availability of insurance covering risks against which we and our competitors typically insure may be limited. In addition, the insurance we are able to obtain may have higher deductibles, higher premiums and more restrictive policy terms, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Operating events affecting public safety and the reliability of our natural gas and electric distribution and transmission systems could adversely affect our operations and increase our costs.. Our natural gas and electric operations are exposed to operational events and risks, such as major leaks, outages, mechanical failures and breakdown, operations below the expected level of performance or efficiency, and accidents that could affect public safety and the reliability of our distribution and transmission systems, significantly increase costs and cause loss of customer confidence. If we are unable to recover all or some of these costs from customers through the regulatory process, our authorized rate of return, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected.. A security breach disrupting our operating systems and facilities or exposing confidential information may adversely affect our reputation, disrupt our operations and increase our costs.. Security breaches of our information technology infrastructure, including cyber-attacks and cyber-terrorism, could lead to system disruptions or cause facility shutdowns. If such an attack or security breach were to occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, the protection of customer, employee and Company data is crucial to our operational security. A breach or breakdown of our systems that results in the unauthorized release of individually identifiable customer or other sensitive data could have an adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations and financial condition and could also materially increase our costs of maintaining our system and protecting it against future breakdowns or breaches. We take reasonable precautions to safeguard our information systems from cyber-attacks and security breaches; however, there is no guarantee that the procedures implemented to protect against unauthorized access to our information systems are adequate to safeguard against all attacks and breaches.. Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified employee workforce could adversely affect operations.. Our ability to implement our business strategy and serve our customers is dependent upon our continuing ability to attract, develop and retain talented professionals and a technically skilled workforce, and being able to transfer the knowledge and expertise of our workforce to new employees as our aging employees retire. Failure to hire and adequately train replacement employees, including the transfer of significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to new employees, or the future availability and cost of contract labor could adversely affect our ability to manage and operate our business. If we were unable to hire, train and retain appropriately qualified personnel, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. Chesapeake Utilities Corporation 2017 Form 10-K Page. 15. Table of Contents. A strike, work stoppage or a labor dispute could adversely affect our operations.. We are party to collective bargaining agreements with labor unions at some of our Florida operations. A strike, work stoppage or a labor dispute with a union or employees represented by a union could cause interruption to our operations. If a strike, work stoppage or other labor dispute were to occur, our results could be adversely affected.. Our businesses are capital intensive, and the increased costs and/or delays of capital projects may adversely affect our future earnings.. Our businesses are capital intensive and require significant investments in ongoing infrastructure projects. Our ability to complete our infrastructure projects on a timely basis and manage the overall cost of those projects may be affected by the limited availability of the necessary materials and qualified vendors. Our future earnings could be adversely affected if we are unable to manage such capital projects effectively, or if full recovery of such capital costs is not permitted in future regulatory proceedings.. Our regulated energy business may be at risk if franchise agreements are not renewed, or new franchise agreements are not obtained, which could adversely affect our future results or operating cash flows and financial condition.. Our regulated natural gas and electric distribution operations hold franchises in each of the incorporated municipalities that require franchise agreements in order to provide natural gas and electricity. Our natural gas and electric distribution operations are currently in negotiations for franchises with certain municipalities for new service areas and renewal of some existing franchises. Ongoing financial results would be adversely impacted from the loss of service to certain operating areas within our electric or natural gas territories in the event that franchise agreements were not renewed. If we are unable to obtain franchise agreements for new service areas, growth in our future earnings could be negatively impacted.. Slowdowns in customer growth may adversely affect earnings and cash flows.. Our ability to increase gross margins in our businesses is dependent upon growth in the residential construction market, adding new commercial and industrial customers and conversion of customers to natural gas, electricity or propane from other energy sources. Slowdowns in growth may adversely affect our gross margin, earnings and cash flows.. Energy conservation could lower energy consumption, which would adversely affect our earnings.. We have seen various legislative and regulatory initiatives to promote energy efficiency and conservation at both the federal and state levels. In response to the initiatives in the states in which we operate, we have implemented programs to promote energy efficiency by our current and potential customers. To the extent a PSC allows us to recover the cost of such energy efficiency programs, funding for such programs is recovered through the rates we charge to our regulated customers. However, lower energy consumption as a result of energy efficiency and conservation by current and potential customers may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Commodity price increases may adversely affect the operating costs and competitive positions of our natural gas, electric and propane distribution operations, which may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Natural Gas/Electricity. Higher natural gas prices can significantly increase the cost of gas billed to our natural gas customers. Increases in the cost of coal, natural gas and other fuels used to generate electricity can significantly increase the cost of electricity billed to our electric customers. Damage to the production or transportation facilities of our suppliers, which decreases their supply of natural gas and electricity, could result in increased supply costs and higher prices for our customers. Such cost increases generally have no immediate effect on our revenues and net income because of our regulated fuel cost recovery mechanisms. However, our net income may be reduced by higher expenses that we may incur for uncollectible customer accounts and by lower volumes of natural gas and electricity deliveries when customers reduce their consumption. Therefore, increases in the price of natural gas, coal and other fuels can adversely affect our operating cash flows, results of operations and financial condition, as well as the competitiveness of natural gas and electricity as energy sources.. Propane. Propane costs are subject to volatile changes as a result of product supply or other market conditions, including weather, economic and political factors affecting crude oil and natural gas supply or pricing. For example, weather conditions could damage production or transportation facilities, which could result in decreased supplies of propane, increased supply costs and higher prices for customers. Such increases in costs can occur rapidly and can negatively affect profitability. There is no assurance that we will be able to pass on propane cost increases fully or immediately, particularly when propane costs increase rapidly. Therefore, average retail sales prices can vary significantly from year-to-year as product costs fluctuate in response to propane, fuel oil, crude oil and natural gas commodity market conditions. In addition, in periods of sustained higher commodity prices, declines in retail sales volumes due to reduced consumption and increased amounts of uncollectible accounts may adversely affect net income.. Refer to Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for additional information.. Chesapeake Utilities Corporation 2017 Form 10-K     Page. 16. Table of Contents. A substantial disruption or lack of growth in interstate natural gas pipeline transmission and storage capacity or electric transmission capacity may impair our ability to meet customers' existing and future requirements.. In order to meet existing and future customer demands for natural gas and electricity, we must acquire sufficient supplies of natural gas and electricity, interstate pipeline transmission and storage capacity, and electric transmission capacity to serve such requirements. We must contract for reliable and adequate upstream transmission capacity for our distribution systems while considering the dynamics of the interstate pipeline and storage and electric transmission markets, our own on-system resources, as well as the characteristics of our markets. Our financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected if the future availability of these capacities were insufficient to meet future customer demands for natural gas and electricity. Currently, our Florida natural gas operation relies primarily on one pipeline system, FGT, for most of its natural gas supply and transmission. Our Florida electric operation secures electricity from two external suppliers. Any continued interruption of service from these suppliers could adversely affect our ability to meet the demands of FPU's customers, which could negatively impact our earnings, financial condition and results of operations.. The amount and availability of natural gas, propane and electricity supplies are difficult to predict; a substantial reduction in available supplies could reduce our earnings in those segments.. Natural gas, propane and electricity production can be affected by factors beyond our control, which may affect our ability to obtain sufficient supplies to meet demand and may adversely impact the financial results in those businesses. Any disruption in the availability of supplies of natural gas, propane and electricity could result in increased supply costs and higher prices for customers, which could also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on a limited number of natural gas, propane and electricity suppliers and producers, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We have entered into various agreements with suppliers and producers to purchase natural gas, propane and electricity to serve our customers. The loss of any significant suppliers and/or producers or our inability to renew these contracts at favorable terms upon their expiration could significantly affect our ability to serve our customers and have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our use of derivative instruments may adversely affect our results of operations.. Fluctuating commodity prices may affect our earnings and financing costs because our propane distribution and natural gas marketing operations use derivative instruments, including forwards, futures, swaps, puts, and calls, to hedge price risk. While we have risk management policies and operating procedures in place to control our exposure to risk, if we purchase derivative instruments that are not properly matched to our exposure, our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition may be adversely affected.. Our natural gas marketing subsidiary's earnings and operating cash flows are dependent upon optimization of physical assets.. Our natural gas marketing subsidiary's earnings and cash flows are based, in part, on its ability to optimize its portfolio of contractual rights to utilize natural gas storage and pipeline assets.  The optimization strategy involves utilizing its physical assets to take advantage of differences in natural gas prices between geographic locations and/or time periods.  Any change among various pricing points could affect those differentials.  In addition, significant increases in the supply of natural gas for this subsidiary's market areas, including as a result of increased production along the Marcellus Shale, can reduce the subsidiary's ability to take advantage of pricing fluctuations in the future.  Changes in pricing dynamics and supply could have an adverse impact on its optimization activities, earnings and cash flows.  Our subsidiary incurs fixed demand fees to acquire its contractual rights to storage and transportation assets. Should commodity prices at various locations or time periods change in such a way that our subsidiary is not able to recoup these costs from customers, the cash flows and earnings of our subsidiary, and ultimately, the Company, could be adversely impacted.. Our propane inventory is subject to inventory valuation risk, which may result in a write-down of inventory.. Our propane distribution operations own or lease bulk propane storage facilities, with an aggregate capacity of approximately 6.8 million gallons. We purchase and store propane based on several factors, including inventory levels and the price outlook. We may purchase large volumes of propane at current market prices during periods of low demand and low prices, which generally occur during the summer months. Propane is a commodity, and as such, its price is subject to volatile fluctuations in response to changes in supply or other market conditions. We have no control over these market conditions. Consequently, the wholesale purchase price can change rapidly over a short period of time. The retail market price for propane could fall below the price at which we made the purchases, which would adversely affect our profits or cause sales from that inventory to be unprofitable. In. Chesapeake Utilities Corporation 2017 Form 10-K Page. 17. Table of Contents. addition, falling propane prices may result in inventory write-downs, as required by GAAP, if the market price of propane falls below our weighted average cost of inventory, which could adversely affect net income.. REGULATORY, LEGAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS. Regulation of our businesses, including changes in the regulatory environment, may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. The Delaware, Maryland and Florida PSCs regulate our utility operations in those states. Eastern Shore is regulated by the FERC. The PSCs and the FERC set the rates that we can charge customers for services subject to their regulatory jurisdiction. Our ability to obtain timely future rate increases and rate supplements to maintain current rates of return depends on regulatory approvals, and there can be no assurance that our regulated operations will be able to obtain such approvals or maintain currently authorized rates of return. When earnings from our regulated utilities exceed the authorized rate of return, the respective PSC, or the FERC in the case of Eastern Shore, may require us to reduce our rates charged to customers in the future.. We may face certain regulatory and financial risks related to pipeline safety legislation.. We are subject to a number of legislative proposals at the federal and state level to implement increased oversight over natural gas pipeline operations and facilities to inspect pipeline facilities, upgrade pipeline facilities, or control the impact of a breach of such facilities. Additional operating expenses and capital expenditures may be necessary to remain in compliance. If new legislation is adopted and we incur additional expenses and expenditures, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected, particularly if we are not authorized through the regulatory process to recover from customers some or all of these costs and our authorized rate of return.. We are subject to operating and litigation risks that may not be fully covered by insurance.. Our operations are subject to the operating hazards and risks normally incidental to handling, storing, transporting, transmitting and delivering natural gas, electricity and propane to end users. From time to time, we are a defendant in legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. We maintain insurance coverage for our general liabilities in the amount of $51 million, which we believe is reasonable and prudent. However, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to potential future claims for personal injury and property damage or that such levels of insurance will be available in the future at economical prices.. Costs of compliance with environmental laws may be significant.. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing environmental quality and pollution control. These evolving laws and regulations may require expenditures over a long period of time to control environmental effects at our current and former operating sites, especially former MGP sites. To date, we have been able to recover, through regulatory rate mechanisms, the costs associated with the remediation of former MGP sites. However, there is no guarantee that we will be able to recover future remediation costs in the same manner or at all. A change in our approved rate mechanisms for recovery of environmental remediation costs at former MGP sites could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Further, existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised, or new laws and regulations seeking to protect the environment may be adopted and be applicable to us. Revised or additional laws and regulations could result in additional operating restrictions on our facilities or increased compliance costs, which may not be fully recoverable. Any such increase in compliance costs could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with these legal obligations requires us to commit capital. If we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if such failure is caused by factors beyond our control, we may be assessed civil or criminal penalties and fines, which could impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Chesapeake Utilities Corporation 2017 Form 10-K     Page. 18. Table of Contents. Derivatives legislation and the implementation of related rules could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business.. The Dodd-Frank Act regulates derivative transactions, which include certain instruments used in our risk management activities. The Dodd-Frank Act contemplates that most swaps will be required to be cleared through a registered clearing facility and traded on a designated exchange or swap execution facility, subject to certain exceptions for entities that use swaps to hedge or mitigate commercial risk. Although the Dodd-Frank Act includes significant new provisions regarding the regulation of derivatives, the impact of those requirements will not be known definitively until regulations have been adopted and fully implemented by both the SEC and the Commodities Futures Trading Commission, and market participants establish registered clearing facilities under those regulations. Although we may qualify for exceptions, our derivatives counterparties may be subject to new capital, margin and business conduct requirements imposed as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, which may increase our transaction costs, make it more difficult for us to enter into hedging transactions on favorable terms or affect the number and/or creditworthiness of available counterparties. Our inability to enter into hedging transactions on favorable terms, or at all, could increase operating expenses and increase exposure to risks of adverse changes in commodity prices, which could adversely affect the predictability of cash flows.. Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our profitability and cash flow.. We are subject to income and other taxes in the U.S. Changes in applicable U.S. tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation and application, including the possibility of retroactive effect, could affect our tax expense and profitability. In addition, the final determination of any tax audits or related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Changes in our tax provision or an increase in our tax liabilities, due to changes in applicable law and regulations, the interpretation or application thereof, future changes in the tax rate or a final determination of tax audits or litigation, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.. Our business may be subject in the future to additional regulatory and financial risks associated with global warming and climate change.. There have been a number of federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives proposed in recent years in an attempt to control or limit the effects of global warming and overall climate change, including greenhouse gas emissions, such as carbon dioxide. The adoption of this type of legislation by Congress, or similar legislation by states, or the adoption of related regulations by federal or state governments mandating a substantial reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in the future could have far-reaching and significant impacts on the energy industry. Such new legislation or regulations could result in increased compliance costs for us or additional operating restrictions on our business, affect the demand for natural gas and propane or impact the prices we charge to our customers. The direction of future U.S. climate change regulation is difficult to predict given the current uncertainties surrounding the policies of the Trump Administration.  The EPA may or may not continue developing regulations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.  Even if federal efforts in this area slow, states may continue pursuing climate regulations.  Any laws or regulations that may be adopted to restrict or reduce emissions of greenhouse gases could require us to incur additional operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions controls, to obtain emission allowances or to pay emission taxes, and reduce demand for our products.   At this time, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws or regulations that may be adopted on our future business, financial condition or financial results.. Climate changes may impact the demand for our services in the future and could result in more frequent and more severe weather events, which ultimately could adversely affect our financial results.. There is a growing belief that emissions of greenhouse gases may be linked to global climate change.  Climate change creates physical and financial risks for us.  Our customers' energy needs vary with weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity.  For residential customers, heating and cooling represent their largest energy use.  To the extent weather conditions may be affected by climate change, customers' energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of any changes.  A decrease in energy use due to weather changes may affect our financial condition through decreased revenues and cash flows.  Extreme weather conditions in general require more system backups, adding to costs, and can contribute to increased system stresses, including service interruptions.  Weather conditions outside of our operating territories could also have an impact on our revenues and cash flows by affecting natural gas prices.  Severe weather impacts our operating territories primarily through thunderstorms, tornadoes, hurricanes, and snow or ice storms.  To the extent the frequency of extreme weather events increases, this could increase our costs of providing services.  We may not be able to pass on the higher costs to our customers or recover all the costs related to mitigating these physical risks.  To the extent financial markets view climate change and emissions of greenhouse gases as a financial risk, this could adversely affect our ability to access capital markets or cause us to receive less favorable terms and conditions in future financings.  Our business could be affected by the potential for lawsuits related to or against greenhouse gas emitters based on the claimed connection between greenhouse gas emissions and climate change, which could impact adversely our business, results of operations and cash flows.. Chesapeake Utilities Corporation 2017 Form 10-K Page. 19. Table of Contents. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may delay or prevent a transaction that stockholders would view as favorable.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Delaware law, contain provisions that could delay, defer or prevent an unsolicited change in control of Chesapeake Utilities, which may negatively affect the market price of our common stock or the ability of stockholders to participate in a transaction in which they might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then current market price. These provisions may also prevent changes in management. In addition, our Board of Directors is authorized to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval on such terms as our Board of Directors may determine. Our common stockholders will be subject to, and may be negatively affected by, the rights of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future."
