[1] "ITEM 1A  -  Risk Factors. Our business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. If any of the events contemplated by the following risks actually occur, then our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are dependent on the domestic automotive industry.. Demand for our products is directly related to conditions in the domestic automotive industry, which is highly cyclical and is affected by a variety of factors, including regulatory requirements, international trade policies, and consumer spending and preferences. The domestic automotive industry is characterized by fierce competition, and has undergone major restructuring in recent years in response to overcapacity, narrowing profit margins, significant pension and health care liabilities and excess debt. Conditions in the domestic automotive industry declined significantly during the global recession of 2008 and 2009, resulting in a substantial decline in vehicle sales. Overall, automotive production in the United States declined approximately 50 percent between 2000 and 2009, before starting to recover in 2010. Although automotive production recently improved to pre-recession levels, any decline in the domestic automotive industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We face intense competition.. We compete with a number of other manufacturers and distributors that produce and sell products similar to ours. Price, quality and service are the primary elements of competition. Our competitors include a large number of independent domestic and international suppliers. We are not as large as a number of these companies and do not have as many financial or other resources. The competitive environment has also changed dramatically over the past several years as our customers, faced with intense international competition and pressure to reduce costs, have expanded their worldwide sourcing of components. As a result, we have experienced competition from suppliers in other parts of the world that benefit from economic advantages, such as lower labor costs, lower health care costs and fewer regulatory burdens. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with existing or new competitors. Increased competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We rely on sales to major customers.. Our sales to two customers constituted approximately 19% and 31% of our consolidated revenues in 2017 and 2016, respectively. Sales to TI Group Automotive Systems, LLC accounted for approximately 19% of the Company's consolidated revenues in 2017 and 2016. Sales to Fisher & Company accounted for approximately 12% of the Company's consolidated revenues in 2016. The loss of any significant portion of our sales to these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to risks related to export sales.. Our export sales have increased in recent years, and we are working to continue to expand our business relationships with customers outside of the United States. Export sales are subject to various risks, including risks related to changes in local economic, social and political conditions (particularly in emerging markets), changes in tariffs and trade policies and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 4. Table of Contents. Increases in our raw material costs or difficulties with our suppliers could negatively affect us.. While we currently maintain alternative sources for raw materials, our business is subject to the risk of price fluctuations and periodic delays in the delivery of certain raw materials. At various times in recent years, we have been adversely impacted by increased costs for steel, our principal raw material, which we have been unable to wholly mitigate, as well as increases in other materials prices. Any continued fluctuation in the price or availability of our raw materials could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may be adversely affected by labor relations issues.. Although none of our employees are unionized, the domestic automakers and many of their suppliers, including many of our customers, have unionized work forces. Work stoppages or slow-downs experienced by automakers or their suppliers could result in slow-downs or closures of assembly plants where our products are included in assembled components. In the event that one or more of our customers or their customers experiences a material labor relations issue, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. We may incur losses as a result of product liability, warranty or other claims that may be brought against us.. We face risk of exposure to warranty and product liability claims in the event that our products fail to perform as expected or result, or are alleged to have resulted, in bodily injury, property damage or other losses. In addition, if any of our products are or are alleged to be defective, then we may be required to participate in a product recall. We may also be involved from time to time in legal proceedings and commercial or contractual disputes. Any losses or other liabilities related to these exposures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We could be adversely impacted by environmental laws and regulations.. Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations. Currently, environmental costs and liabilities with respect to our operations are not material, but there can be no assurance that we will not be adversely impacted by these costs and liabilities in the future either under present laws and regulations or those that may be adopted or imposed in the future.. We could be adversely impacted by the loss of the services of key employees.. Successful operations depend, in part, upon the efforts of executive officers and other key employees. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Loss of the services of any of our key employees, or the inability to attract or retain employees could have a material adverse affect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The price of our common stock is subject to volatility, and our stock is thinly traded.. Various factors, such as general economic changes in the financial markets, announcements or significant developments with respect to the automotive industry, actual or anticipated variations in our or our competitors' quarterly or annual financial results, the introduction of new products or technologies by us or our. 5. Table of Contents. competitors, changes in other conditions or trends in our industry or in the markets of any of our significant customers, changes in governmental regulation, or changes in securities analysts' estimates of our competitors or our industry, could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially.. Our common stock is traded on the NYSE American (not registered, trading privileges only). The average daily trading volume for our common stock during 2017 was less than 2,000 shares per day. As a result, you may have difficulty selling shares of our common stock, and the price of our common stock may vary significantly based on trading volume."
