[1] "ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. We are affected by risks specific to us as well as factors that affect all businesses operating in a global market. The significant factors known to us that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or operating results are set forth below.. Risks Related to our Company:. We do not have a long operating history on which to evaluate our company.. Our predecessor, CSS Productions, was formed in December 2014 and we were formed in May 2016 to succeed to CSS Productions’ assets in order to create a discrete, focused entity to pursue video content opportunities using the Chicken Soup for the Soul brand. We face all the risks faced by newer companies in the media industry, including significant competition from existing and emerging media producers and distributors, many of which are significantly more established, larger and better financed than our company.. It is only recently that we debuted our video content and accordingly do not have a long history on which to evaluate our ability to produce and distribute video content that will be desired by our target consumers across multiple media offerings. Similarly, we do not have a long-term operating or financial history that can be reviewed in evaluating an investment in our company.. All of our assets are pledged to secure existing indebtedness.. All of our assets are pledged under a first priority security interest to secure our repayment obligations under indebtedness owed to the facility lender under a credit facility with an affiliate of our chief executive officer, as described under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Operating and Financial Condition – Liquidity and Capital Resources - “Credit Facility.” In the event the holder of such indebtedness takes action with respect to our assets in connection with any default under the Credit Facility, we may not be able to continue our operations.. Our long-term results of operations are difficult to predict and depend on the commercial success of our video content and the continued strength of the Chicken Soup for the Soul brand.. Our ability in the long-term to obtain sponsorships and licensing arrangements and to distribute our video content will depend, in part, upon the commercial success of the content that we initially distribute and, in part, on the continued strength of the Chicken Soup for the Soul brand. We cannot predict whether our initial video content will be accepted by audiences at a level that will create strong demand for our future video content. Further, the continued strength of the brand will be affected in large part by the operations of CSS and its other business operations, none of which we control. CSS utilizes the brand through its other subsidiaries for various commercial purposes, including the sale of books (including educational curriculum products), pet foods and other consumer products. Negative publicity relating to CSS or its other subsidiaries or the brand, or any diminution in the perception of the brand could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects. We cannot assure you that we will manage the production and distribution of all of our video content successfully, that all or any portion of our video content will be met with critical acclaim or will be embraced by audiences on a one-time or repeated basis, or that the strength of the Chicken Soup for the Soul brand will not diminish over time.. Our reliance on third parties for production and distribution could limit our control over the quality of the finished video content.. We currently have limited internal production and distribution capabilities and are reliant on relationships with third parties for much of these capabilities. Working with third parties is an integral part of our strategy to produce and distribute video content on a cost efficient basis, and our reliance on such third parties could lessen the control we have over the projects, despite our approval rights. Should the third party producers we rely upon not produce completed projects to the standards we expect and desire, critical and audience acceptance of such projects could suffer, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to produce and distribute future projects. Further, we cannot be assured of entering into favorable agreements with such third party producers on economically favorable terms or on terms that provide us with satisfactory intellectual property rights in the completed projects.. An integral part of our strategy is to initially minimize our production and distribution costs by utilizing funding sources provided by others, however, such sources may not be readily available.. The production and distribution of video content require a significant amount of capital. As part of our strategy, we will initially seek to fund the production and distribution of our video content through the payment of upfront fees by sponsors, licensors, broadcast, cable and satellite outlets and other producers and distributors, as well as through other initiatives, such as government tax incentives. Funding for our video content projects from the aforementioned sources or other sources may not be available on attractive terms or at all as and when we need such funding. To the extent we are not able to secure agreements by which upfront fees are paid to us, we may need to curtail the amount of video content being produced or use our operating or other funds to pay for such video content, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.. 5. As we grow we may seek to fund and produce more of our video content directly, subjecting us to significant additional risks.. Our current strategy of funding the production and distribution of our video content through the payment of upfront fees by third parties may limit the backend return to us. If we should determine to use our own funds to produce and distribute more of our video content in order to capture greater backend returns, we would face significant additional risks, such as the need to internally advance funds ahead of revenue generation and cost recoupment and the need to divert some of our resources and efforts away from other operations. In order to reduce these risks, we may determine to raise additional equity or incur additional indebtedness. In such event, our stockholders and our company will be subjected to the risks associated with issuing more of our shares or increasing our debt obligations.. We have derived our revenue to date from a limited number of video content offerings and clients and have funded our projects from a limited number of sources.. Historically, we have derived most of our revenue from a limited number of video content offerings and clients. While we continue to expand the number and type of our video content offerings, including through our acquisition of Screen Media, we will need to continue to expand and broaden our video content offerings, the distribution channels into which they are placed, the clients to which we sell and the production and financing relationships utilized to create such video content to ensure that we are not reliant on a limited number of offerings or distribution partners in the future. A failure to continue to expand and broaden our video content offerings, client base or distribution, production and financing relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.. Certain conflicts of interest may arise between us and our affiliated companies and we have waived certain rights with respect thereto.. Our certificate of incorporation includes a provision stating that we renounce any interest or expectancy in any business opportunities that are presented to us or our officers, directors or stockholders or affiliates thereof, including but not limited to CSS Productions and its affiliates (collectively, the “CSS Companies”), except as may be set forth in any written agreement between us and any of the CSS Companies (such as the CSS License Agreement under which CSS has agreed that all video content operations shall be conducted only through CSSE). This provision also states that, to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law, our officers, directors and employees shall not be liable to us or our stockholders for monetary damages for breach of any fiduciary duty by reason of any of our activities or any activities of any of the CSS Companies. As a result of these provisions, there may be conflicts of interest among us and our officers, directors, stockholders or their affiliates, including the CSS Companies, relating to business opportunities, and we have waived our right to monetary damages in the event of any such conflict.. We are required to make continuing payments to our affiliates, which may reduce our cash flow and profits.. We are required to make significant payments to our affiliates as described under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Affiliate Resources and Obligations — CSS Management Agreement”, “CSS License Agreement” and “A Plus Distribution Agreement” and described under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources”. Accordingly, in the aggregate, at least 10% of our gross revenue will be paid to our affiliates on a continuous basis and will not be otherwise available to us.. If a project we are producing incurs substantial budget overruns, we may have to seek additional financing from outside sources to complete production or fund the overrun ourselves.. If a production we are funding incurs substantial budget overruns, we may have to seek additional financing from outside sources to complete production or fund the overrun ourselves. We cannot be certain that any required financing will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that we will be able to recoup the costs of overruns. Increased costs incurred with respect to a particular project may result in the production not being ready for release at the intended time, which could cause a decline in the commercial performance of the project. Budget overruns could also prevent a project from being completed or released at all.. We are subject to risks associated with possible acquisitions, business combinations, or joint ventures.. We are actively pursuing discussions and activities with respect to possible acquisitions, sale of assets, business combinations, or joint ventures intended to complement or expand our business, some of which may be significant transactions for us. We may not realize the anticipated benefit from any of the transactions we pursue. Regardless of whether we consummate any such transaction, the negotiation of a potential transaction could require us to incur significant costs and cause diversion of management’s time and resources.. 6. Integrating any business that we acquire may be distracting to our management and disruptive to our business and may result in significant costs to us. We could face several challenges in the consolidation and integration of information technology, accounting systems, personnel and operations. Any such transaction could also result in impairment of goodwill and other intangibles, development write-offs and other related expenses. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.. Our operating results may fluctuate.. Our operating results are dependent, in part, on management’s estimates of revenue to be earned over the life of a project. We will regularly review and revise our revenue estimates. This review may result in a change in the rate of amortization and/or a write-down of the video content asset to its estimated realizable value. Results of operations in future years depend upon our amortization of our video content costs. Periodic adjustments in amortization rates may significantly affect these results. Further, as many of our third-party relationships will be on a project-by-project basis, the profits, if any, generated from various projects will fluctuate based on the terms of the agreements between us and our third-party producers and distributors.. Because of our current stage of development, we generate a significant portion of our annual revenue in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. However, with the acquisition of Screen Media whose revenue and results are more evenly distributed over its fiscal quarters, we anticipate that our revenue may be more evenly distributed throughout the year in the future as we diversify our video content offerings. Until such time, our quarter to quarter financial results may not be comparable within any single fiscal year or from fiscal year to fiscal year.. As a result of the foregoing and other factors, our results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period, and the results of any one period may not be indicative of the results for any future period.. Distributors’ failure to promote our video content could adversely affect our revenue and could adversely affect our business results.. We will not always control the timing and manner in which our licensed distributors distribute our video content offerings. However, their decisions regarding the timing of release and promotional support are important in determining success. Any decision by those distributors not to distribute or promote our video content or to promote our competitors’ video content to a greater extent than they promote our intent could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.. We are smaller and less diversified than many of our competitors.. Many of the producers and studios with which we compete are part of large diversified corporate groups with a variety of other operations, including television networks, cable channels and other diversified companies such as Amazon, which can provide both the means of distributing their products and stable sources of earnings that may allow them to better offset fluctuations in the financial performance of their operations. In addition, the major studios have more resources with which to compete for ideas, storylines and scripts created by third parties as well as for actors, and other personnel required for production. The resources of the major producers and studios may also give them an advantage in acquiring other businesses or assets, including video content libraries, that we might also be interested in acquiring.. We must successfully respond to rapid technological changes and alternative forms of delivery or storage to remain competitive.. The entertainment industry in general continues to undergo significant developments as advances in technologies and new methods of product delivery and storage, or certain changes in consumer behavior driven by these developments, emerge. Consumers are spending an increasing amount of time online and on mobile devices and are increasingly viewing content on a time-delayed or on-demand basis online, on their televisions and on handheld or portable devices. Our distributors and we must adapt our businesses to changing consumer behavior and preferences and exploit new distribution channels. Our strategy is to seek to take advantage of these changes and thereby to create new revenue streams and other opportunities for our video content. If we cannot successfully utilize these and other emerging technologies, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.. We face risks from doing business internationally.. We intend to increase the distribution of our video content outside the U.S. and thereby derive significant revenue in foreign jurisdictions. As a result, our business is subject to certain risks inherent in international business, many of which are beyond our control. These risks include:. ·laws and policies affecting trade, investment and taxes, including laws and policies relating to the repatriation of funds and withholding taxes, and changes in these laws;. 7. ·the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws regulating interactions and dealings with foreign government officials;. ·changes in local regulatory requirements, including restrictions on video content;. ·differing cultural tastes and attitudes;. ·differing degrees of protection for intellectual property;. ·financial instability and increased market concentration of buyers in foreign television markets;. ·the instability of foreign economies and governments;. ·fluctuating foreign exchange rates;. ·the spread of communicable diseases in such jurisdictions, which may impact business in such jurisdictions; and. ·war and acts of terrorism.. Events or developments related to these and other risks associated with international trade could adversely affect our revenue from non-U.S. sources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.. Protecting and defending against intellectual property claims may have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our ability to compete depends, in part, upon successful protection of our intellectual property relating to our video content and the protection of the Chicken Soup for the Soul brand. We protect proprietary and intellectual property rights to our productions through available copyright and trademark laws and licensing and distribution arrangements with reputable international companies in specific territories and media. Under the terms of the CSS License Agreement, CSS has the primary right to take actions to protect the brand, and, if it does not, and we reasonably deem any infringement thereof is materially harmful to our business, we may elect to seek action to protect the brand ourselves. Although in the former case, we would equitably share in any recovery, and in the latter case, we would retain the entirety of any recovery, should CSS determine not to prosecute infringement of the brand, we could be materially harmed and could incur substantial cost in prosecuting an infringement of the Chicken Soup for the Soul brand.. Others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us.. It is possible that others may claim from time to time that our productions and production techniques misappropriate or infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties with respect to their previously developed content, stories, characters and other entertainment or intellectual property. Although CSS is obligated to indemnify us for claims related to our use of the Chicken Soup for the Soul brand in accordance with the CSS License Agreement, we could face lawsuits with respect to claims relating thereto. Irrespective of the validity or the successful assertion of any such claims, we could incur significant costs and diversion of resources in defending against them, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.. Our business involves risks of liability claims for video content, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. As a producer and distributor of video content, we may face potential liability for defamation, invasion of privacy, negligence and other claims based on the nature and content of the materials distributed. These types of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against producers and distributors of video content. Any imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.. Piracy of video content may harm our business.. Video content piracy is extensive in many parts of the world, including South America, Asia, and certain Eastern European countries, and is made easier by technological advances and the conversion of video content into digital formats. This trend facilitates the creation, transmission and sharing of high quality unauthorized copies of video content on DVDs, Blu-ray discs, from pay-per-view through set-top boxes and other devices and through unlicensed broadcasts on free television and the internet. The proliferation of unauthorized copies of our video content could have an adverse effect on our business.. We rely upon a number of partners to offer streaming of content to various devices.. We currently offer viewers the ability to receive streaming content through a host of internet-connected devices, including internet-enabled televisions, digital video players, game consoles and mobile devices, using third-party platforms and our own VOD platforms, including Popcornflix.com. We intend to continue to broaden our capability to instantly stream content to other platforms and partners over time. We do not own any of the technology utilized by third parties in the distribution of our content. If we are not successful in maintaining existing and creating new relationships, or if we encounter technological, content licensing or other impediments to our streaming content, our ability to grow our business could be adversely impacted. In addition, technology changes may require that our partners update their platforms. If partners do not update or otherwise modify their platforms, our service and our viewers’ use and enjoyment could be negatively impacted.. 8. Any significant disruption in the computer systems of third parties that we utilize in our operations could result in a loss or degradation of service and could adversely impact our business.. Our reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve our viewers is dependent upon the reliable performance of the computer systems of third parties that we utilize in our operations. These systems may be subject to damage or interruption from earthquakes, adverse weather conditions, other natural disasters, terrorist attacks, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks or other attempts to harm these systems. Interruptions in these systems or to the internet in general, could make our content unavailable or impair our ability to deliver such content.. Our online activities are subject to a variety of laws and regulations relating to privacy, which, if violated, could subject us to an increased risk of litigation and regulatory actions.. In addition to our websites, we use third-party applications, websites, and social media platforms to promote our video content offerings and engage consumers, as well as monitor and collect certain information about consumers. There are a variety of laws and regulations governing individual privacy and the protection and use of information collected from such individuals, particularly in relation to an individual’s personally identifiable information. Many foreign countries have adopted similar laws governing individual privacy, some of which are more restrictive than similar United States laws. If our online activities were to violate any applicable current or future laws and regulations, we could be subject to litigation and regulatory actions, including fines and other penalties.. If government regulations relating to the internet or other areas of our business change, we may need to alter the manner in which we conduct our business or incur greater operating expenses.. The adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the internet or other areas of our business could limit or otherwise adversely affect the manner in which we currently conduct our business. In addition, the continued growth and development of the market for online commerce may lead to more stringent consumer protection laws, which may impose additional burdens on us. If we are required to comply with new regulations or legislation or new interpretations of existing regulations or legislation, this compliance could cause us to incur additional expenses or alter our operations.. If we experience rapid growth, we may not manage our growth effectively, execute our business plan as proposed or adequately address competitive challenges.. We anticipate continuing to grow our business and operations rapidly. Our growth strategy includes organic initiatives and acquisitions. Such growth could place a significant strain on the management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure we utilize, a portion of which is made available to us by our affiliates under the CSS Management Agreement. Our long-term success will depend, in part, on our ability to manage this growth effectively, obtain the necessary support and resources under the CSS Management Agreement and grow our own internal resources as required, including internal management and staff personnel. To manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we also will need to increase our internal operational, financial and management controls, and our reporting systems and procedures. Failure to effectively manage growth could result in difficulty or delays in producing our video content, declines in overall project quality and increases in costs. Any of these difficulties could adversely impact our business financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.. Our exclusive license to use the Chicken Soup for the Soul brand could be terminated in certain circumstances.. We do not own the Chicken Soup for the Soul brand or any other Chicken Soup for the Soul-related assets (including books), other than those assets transferred to us under the CSS Contribution and Trema Contribution Agreements. The brand is licensed to us by CSS under the terms of the CSS License Agreement. CSS controls the brand, and the continued integrity and strength of the Chicken Soup for the Soul brand will depend in large part on the efforts and businesses of CSS and how the brand is used, promoted and protected by CSS, which will be outside of the immediate control of our company. Although the license granted to us under the CSS License Agreement is perpetual, there are certain circumstances in which it may be terminated by CSS, including our breach of the CSS License Agreement.. Claims against us relating to any acquisition or business combination may necessitate our seeking claims against the seller for which the seller may not indemnify us or that may exceed the seller’s indemnification obligations.. There may be liabilities assumed in any acquisition or business combination that we did not discover or that we underestimated in the course of performing our due diligence. Although a seller generally may have indemnification obligations to us under an acquisition or merger agreement, these obligations usually will be subject to financial limitations, such as general deductibles and maximum recovery amounts, as well as time limitations. We cannot assure you that our right to indemnification from any seller will be enforceable, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset the amount of any undiscovered or underestimated liabilities that we may incur. Any such liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.. 9. We may require and not be able to obtain additional funding to meet increased capital needs after an acquisition.. Our ability to grow through acquisitions, business combinations and joint ventures and our ability to fund our operating expenses after one or more acquisitions may depend upon our ability to obtain funds through equity financing, debt financing (including credit facilities) or the sale or syndication of some or all of our interests in certain projects or other assets or businesses. If we do not have access to such financing arrangements, and if other funds do not become available on terms acceptable to us, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.. Our success depends on our management and relationships with our affiliated companies.. Our success depends to a significant extent on the performance of our management personnel and key employees, including production and creative personnel, made available to us through the CSS Management Agreement. The loss of the services of such persons or the resources supplied to us by our affiliated companies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.. To be successful, we need to attract and retain qualified personnel.. Our success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train and retain qualified professional, creative, technical and managerial personnel. Competition for the caliber of talent required to produce and distribute our video content continues to increase. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in identifying, attracting, hiring, training and retaining such personnel in the future. If we were unable to hire, assimilate and retain qualified personnel in the future, such inability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.. We are an “emerging growth company” under the JOBS Act of 2012 and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our Class A common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an “emerging growth company”, as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (“JOBS Act”), and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies” including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a non-binding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We cannot predict if investors will find our Class A common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our Class A common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our Class A common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act also provides that an “emerging growth company” can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. In other words, an “emerging growth company” can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We are choosing to take advantage of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards.. We will remain an “emerging growth company” for up to five years, although we will lose that status sooner if our revenue exceeds $1 billion, if we issue more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt in a three-year period, or if the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of June 30 of any year.. Our status as an “emerging growth company” under the JOBS Act of 2012 may make it more difficult to raise capital as and when we need it.. Because of the exemptions from various reporting requirements provided to us as an “emerging growth company” and because we will have an extended transition period for complying with new or revised financial accounting standards, we may be less attractive to investors and it may be difficult for us to raise additional capital as and when we need it. Investors may be unable to compare our business with other companies in our industry if they believe that our financial accounting is not as transparent as other companies in our industry. Any inability to raise additional capital as and when we need it, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.. Since our content is digitally stored and distributed online, and we accept online payments for various subscription services, we face numerous cybersecurity risks.. We utilize information technology systems, including third-party hosted servers and cloud-based servers, to host our digital content, as well as to keep business, financial, and corporate records, communicate internally and externally, and operate other critical functions. If any of our internal systems or the systems of our third-party providers are compromised due to computer virus, unauthorized access, malware, and the like, then sensitive documents could be exposed or deleted, and our ability to conduct business could be impaired.. 10. Cyber incidents can result from deliberate attacks or unintentional events. These incidents can include, but are not limited to, unauthorized access to our systems, computer viruses or other malicious code, denial of service attacks, malware, ransomware, phishing, SQL injection attacks, human error, or other events that result in security breaches or give rise to the manipulation or loss of sensitive information or assets. Cyber incidents can be caused by various persons or groups, including disgruntled employees and vendors, activists, organized crime groups, and state-sponsored and individual hackers. Cyber incidents can also be caused or aggravated by natural events, such as earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, and telecommunications failures.. To date, we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber-attacks, computer viruses, or other systems failures. Although we have taken steps to protect the security of data maintained in our information systems, it is possible that our security measures will not be able to prevent the systems’ improper functioning or the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information, such as in the event of cyber-attacks. In addition to operational and business consequences, if our cybersecurity is breached, we could be held liable to our customers or other parties in regulatory or other actions, and we may be exposed to reputation damages and loss of trust and business. This could result in costly investigations and litigation, civil or criminal penalties, fines, and negative publicity.. Certain information relating to our customers, including personally identifiable information and credit card numbers, is collected and maintained by us, or by third-parties that do business with us or facilitate our business activities. This information is maintained for a period of time for various business purposes, including maintaining records of customer preferences to enhance our customer service and for billing, marketing, and promotional purposes. We also maintain personally identifiable information about our employees. The integrity and protection of our customer, employee and company data is critical to our business. Our customers and our employees expect that we will adequately protect their personal information, and the regulations applicable to security and privacy are increasingly demanding. Privacy regulation is an evolving area and compliance with applicable privacy regulations may increase our operating costs or adversely impact our ability to service our customers and market our properties and services.. Risks Related to our Common Stock:. Our chairman and chief executive officer effectively controls our company.. We have two classes of common stock — Class A common stock, each share of which entitles the holder thereof to one vote on any matter submitted to our stockholders, and Class B common stock, each share of which entitles the holder thereof to ten votes on any matter submitted to our stockholders. Our chairman and chief executive officer, William J. Rouhana, Jr., has control over the vast majority of all the outstanding voting power as represented by our outstanding Class B and Class A common stock and effectively controls CSS Holdings and CSS, which controls CSS Productions, and, in turn, our company. Further, our bylaws provide that any member of our board may be removed with or without cause by the majority of our outstanding voting power, thus Mr. Rouhana exerts significant control over our board. This concentration of ownership and decision making may make it more difficult for other stockholders to effect substantial changes in our company and may also have the effect of delaying, preventing or expediting, as the case may be, a change in control of our company.. We may issue shares of our capital stock or debt securities in the future, whether to complete any acquisition, a business combination or to raise additional funds, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and might cause a change in control of our ownership.. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 70 million shares of Class A common stock, par value $.0001 per share, 20 million shares of Class B common stock, par value $.0001 per share, and 10 million shares of preferred stock, par value $.0001 per share. As of the date of this Report, we have 66,253,946 authorized but unissued shares of our Class A common stock remaining available for issuance, 12,136,062 authorized but unissued shares of our Class B common stock remaining available for issuance and 10,000,000 authorized but unissued shares of our preferred stock remaining available for issuance immediately after the offering. We also may issue a substantial number of additional Shares of our common stock or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to raise additional funds or in connection with any acquisition or business combination in the future.. Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. We have outstanding Class W warrants to purchase up to an aggregate of 678,822 shares of Class A common stock and Class Z warrants to purchase up to an aggregate of 130,618 shares of Class A common stock. The sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the Class W warrants and the Class Z warrants or the shares underlying the Class W warrants and the Class Z warrants, could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future public financing. Furthermore, we might issue warrants or other securities convertible or exchangeable for shares of common stock in the future in order to raise funds or to effect acquisitions or business combinations. If and to the extent our warrants are exercised, or we issue additional securities to raise funds or consummate any acquisition or business combination, you may experience dilution to your holdings.. 11. We may not pay any dividends on our common stock.. We have not paid any cash dividends on our shares of common stock to date. The payment of cash dividends on our common stock in the future will be dependent upon our revenue and earnings, if any, capital requirements and general financial condition as well as the limitations on dividends and distributions that exist under the laws and regulations of the State of Delaware and will be within the discretion of our board of directors. As a result, any gain you may realize on our common stock (including shares of common stock obtained upon exercise of our warrants) may result solely from the appreciation of such shares.. If our securities become subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected.. If at any time we have net tangible assets of $5,000,000 or less and our common stock has a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our securities may be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must:. ·make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser;. ·receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction prior to sale;. ·provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and. ·obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed.. If our securities become subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities.. Nasdaq could delist our Class A common stock from quotation on its exchange, which could limit investors’ ability to sell and purchase our shares and subject us to additional trading restrictions.. Our Class A common stock is on Nasdaq, a national securities exchange, if our common stock is not listed on Nasdaq at any time after the date hereof, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including:. ·a limited availability of market quotations for our common stock;. ·reduced liquidity with respect to our common stock;. ·a determination that our common stock is “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our shares to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock;. ·a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and. ·a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future."
