[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following factors, together with all the other information included in this 2017 Form 10-K, in evaluating our company and our business.  If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, and the value of our stock could decline.  Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations.  As such, you should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties.. Risks Associated With Our Investments. The nature of the mortgage loans we acquire and the mortgage loans underlying the mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities we acquire expose us to credit risk that could negatively affect the value of those assets and investments.. We assume credit risk primarily through the ownership of securities backed by residential, multi-family, and commercial real estate loans and through direct investments in residential real estate loans. Credit losses on residential real estate loans can occur for many reasons (many of which are beyond our control), including: fraud; poor underwriting; poor servicing practices; weak economic conditions; increases in payments required to be made by borrowers; declines in the value of homes; earthquakes, the effects of climate change (including flooding, drought, wildfire and severe weather) and other natural events; uninsured property loss; over-leveraging of the borrower; costs of remediation of environmental conditions, such as indoor mold; changes in zoning or building codes and the related costs of compliance; acts of war or terrorism; changes in legal protections for lenders and other changes in law or regulation; and personal events affecting borrowers, such as reduction in income, job loss, divorce, or health problems. In addition, the amount and timing of credit losses could be affected by loan modifications, delays in the liquidation process, documentation errors, and other action by servicers. Weakness in the U.S. economy or the housing market could cause our credit losses to increase beyond levels that we currently anticipate.. RMBS. A significant portion of our RMBS are subordinate tranches we have acquired through securitization.  In general, we are the first-loss security holder and, accordingly, losses on any residential mortgage loan securing our RMBS will be borne first by the owner of the property (i.e., the owner will first lose any equity invested in the property) and, thereafter, by the first-loss security holder, which is generally us in our securitizations, and then by holders of more senior securities. In the event the losses incurred upon default on the loan exceed any equity support, reserve fund, letter of credit, and classes of securities junior to those in which we invest (if any), we may not be able to recover all of our investment in the securities we hold. In addition, if the underlying properties have been overvalued by the originating appraiser or if the values subsequently decline and, as a result, less collateral is available to satisfy interest and principal payments due on the related security, as the first-loss security holder, we may suffer a total loss of principal, followed by losses on the second-loss and then third-loss securities (or other residential and commercial securities that we own). In addition, as the first-loss security holder, we may be subject to risks associated with the determination by a loan servicer to discontinue servicing advances (advances of mortgage interest payments not made by a delinquent borrower) if they deem continued advances to be unrecoverable, which could reduce the value of these securities or impair our ability to project and realize future cash flows from these securities.. Residential Mortgage Loans. For residential mortgage loans or other investments we own directly (not through a securitization structure), we will incur credit losses - should they occur - only after losses are borne by the owner of the property (e.g., by a. 9. reduction in the owner's equity stake in the property). In many of our loans, however, the owner has very little equity and we may take actions available to us in an attempt to protect our position and mitigate the amount of credit losses, but these actions may not prove to be successful and could result in our increasing the amount of credit losses we ultimately incur on a loan.. Commercial Loans. Commercial mortgage loans are secured by multifamily or commercial property and are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure, and risks of loss that are greater than similar risks associated with loans secured by single-family residential property discussed above. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by an income-producing property typically is dependent primarily upon the successful operation of such property rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the borrower. If the net operating income of the property is reduced, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Net operating income of an income-producing property can be affected by, among other things, tenant mix, success of tenant businesses, property management decisions, property location and condition, competition from comparable types of properties, changes in laws that increase operating expense or limit rents that may be charged, any need to address environmental contamination at the property, the occurrence of any uninsured casualty at the property, changes in national, regional or local economic conditions or specific industry segments, declines in regional or local real estate values, declines in regional or local rental or occupancy rates, increases in interest rates, real estate tax rates and other operating expenses, changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies, including environmental legislation, acts of God (including earthquakes, hurricanes, floods and other natural disasters, that may result in uninsured losses), acts of war or terrorism, social unrest and civil disturbances.. A significant portion of our investments are illiquid and may be difficult to value.. A significant portion of our investments are not publicly traded and are therefore, illiquid.   The fair value of securities and other investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable and it may be difficult to obtain third party pricing on such investments.   In addition, validating third party pricing for illiquid investments may be more subjective than more liquid investments and may not be reliable.  We value these investments quarterly at fair value, based on our judgment and as determined in accordance with our valuation policy. Because such valuations are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our fair value determination may differ materially from the values obtained from third parties or the values that would have been used if in an active trading market existed for these securities.  Our results of operations, financial condition and business could be materially adversely affected if our fair value determinations of our investments were materially higher than the values that would exist if a ready market existed for these assets.. Additionally, illiquid investments may experience greater price volatility because an active market does not exist.  The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult or, for certain assets subject to the risk retention rules, impossible for us to sell (as discussed in the risk factor below).  In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly (for example, in connection with a margin call), we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. As a result, our ability to adjust our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions may be relatively limited, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and the value of our capital stock. This risk may be more pronounced during any severe market disruption in the mortgage, housing or related sectors.. A significant portion of the RMBS we acquire through securitization is subject to the U.S. credit risk retention rules which materially limit our ability to sell or hedge such investments as needed.. A significant part of our business and growth strategy is to engage in securitization transactions to finance the acquisition of residential mortgage loans. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act and related laws and regulations (the \"Risk Retention Rules\"), when we sponsor a residential mortgage loan securitization, we are required to retain at least 5% of the fair value of the mortgage-backed securities issued in the securitization. We can retain either an \"eligible vertical interest\" (which consists of at least 5% of each class of securities issued in the securitization), an \"eligible horizontal residual interest\" (which is the most subordinate class of securities with a fair market value of at least 5% of the aggregate credit risk) or a combination of both totaling 5% (the \"Required Credit Risk\").   We are required to hold the Required Credit Risk until the later of (i) the fifth anniversary of the securitization closing date and (ii) the date on which the aggregate unpaid principal balance of the mortgage loans in such securitization has been reduced to 25% of the aggregate unpaid principal balance of the mortgage loans as of the securitization closing date, but in any event no longer than the seventh anniversary of the Closing Date (the \"Sunset Date\"). In addition, prior to the Sunset Date, we may not engage in any hedging transactions if payments on the hedge instrument are materially related to the Required Credit Risk and the hedge position would limit our financial exposure to the Required Credit Risk.  Also, we may not pledge our interest in any Required Credit Risk as collateral for any financing unless such financing is full recourse to us.  We have financed our Required Credit Risk in full recourse transactions.  Our Required Credit Risk, subjects us to the first losses on our securitizations and is illiquid which may make it more difficult to meet our liquidity needs,. 10. each of which may materially and adversely affect our business and financing condition. As a result, the Risk Retention Rules materially limit our ability to sell and hedge a portion of our RMBS that we acquire through securitizations, and also subjects us to the credit risk related to the retained RMBS that we otherwise may have sold.. We have significant credit risk in certain geographic areas and may be disproportionately affected by adverse events specific to those markets.. We are not required to observe specific diversification criteria.  A significant number of the mortgage loans underlying our RMBS may from time to time be concentrated in certain geographic areas. For example, at December 31, 2017, 51% of our Non-Agency RMBS portfolio was concentrated in California, Florida, New York and New Jersey, of which 32%, was in California and 19% was in Florida, New York and New Jersey. Any event that adversely affects or any material decline in the economy or real estate market in these states could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our Non-Agency RMBS portfolio and could cause a decline in the value of residential properties securing the mortgages. This, in turn, would increase the risk of delinquency, default and foreclosure on real estate collateralizing our Non-Agency RMBS in such area, which could materially adversely affect our credit loss experience on our Non-Agency RMBS in such area.. The occurrence of a natural disaster (such as an earthquake, tornado, hurricane or a flood) or a significant adverse climate change in one of these regions may cause a sudden decrease in the value of real estate, reduce the value of the properties that are securing the mortgage loans underlying our Non-Agency RMBS, and could impair a borrower's ability to repay their mortgage loan. As a result of such disasters, defaults and credit loss severities could increase on the pool of mortgages securing our Non-Agency RMBS which, unlike Agency RMBS, are not guaranteed as to principal or interest by the U.S. Government, any federal agency or federally chartered corporation.. For example, in August 2017, Hurricane Harvey made landfall in the States of Texas and Louisiana, and in September 2017, Hurricane Irma made landfall in the State of Florida, in each case causing extensive flooding and other heavy damage in certain parts of such states, as well as in parts of Georgia and South Carolina.  In October 2017, a series of wildfires caused significant damage in certain parts of the State of California, particularly in Sonoma County.. Certain of our mortgage loans or the mortgage loans underlying our RMBS are located in zip codes affected by Hurricane Harvey or Irma or from the wildfires in California.  While the impact of these events is not expected to be material to us, if similar events in the future occurred and impacted a larger percentage of our assets, the mortgage loans located in the affected areas may be more likely to become delinquent, especially if the related mortgagors are unable to live in their properties for an extended period of time.  To the extent that delinquencies increase in these affected areas or to the extent that such mortgagors are unable to repair their properties due to a lack of flood insurance or fire and hazard insurance, we may suffer losses on the related mortgage loans and RMBS.. Changes in prepayment rates could negatively affect the value of our investment portfolio, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our stockholders.. There are seldom any restrictions on borrowers' abilities to prepay their residential mortgage loans. Homeowners tend to prepay mortgage loans faster when interest rates decline. Consequently, owners of the loans have to reinvest the money received from the prepayments at the lower prevailing interest rates. Conversely, homeowners tend not to prepay mortgage loans when interest rates increase. Consequently, owners of the loans are unable to reinvest money that would have otherwise been received from prepayments at the higher prevailing interest rates.. Volatility in prepayment rates may affect our ability to maintain targeted amounts of leverage and return on our portfolio of residential mortgage loans, RMBS, and CDOs backed by real estate-related assets and may result in reduced earnings or losses for us and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our stockholders.. To the extent our investments are purchased at a premium, faster than expected prepayments result in a faster than expected amortization of the premium paid, which would adversely affect our earnings.  Conversely, if these investments were purchased at a discount, faster than expected prepayments accelerate our recognition of income.. In addition, a significant portion of the loans underlying our RMBS were originated prior to the financial crisis and possess higher than current prevailing interest rates.  Accordingly, we may experience higher pre-payment rates even in a rising interest rate environment due to the strong economy and origination profiles of the loans underlying our RMBS.. Interest rate fluctuations may have various negative effects on us and may lead to reduced earnings and increased volatility in our earnings.. 11. Changes in interest rates, the interrelationships between various interest rates, and interest rate volatility may have negative effects on our earnings, the fair value of our assets and liabilities, loan prepayment rates, and our access to liquidity. Changes in interest rates may harm the credit performance of our assets. We generally seek to hedge some but not all interest rate risks. Our hedging may not work effectively and we may change our hedging strategies or the degree or type of interest rate risk we assume.. Some of the loans and securities we own or may acquire have adjustable-rate coupons (i.e., they may earn interest at a rate that adjusts periodically based on an interest rate index) and some of the subordinate securities we own are entitled to cash flow after the more senior securities have been paid and those senior securities have adjustable-rate coupons. The cash flows we receive from these assets may vary as a function of interest rates, as may the reported earnings generated by these assets. For example, if interest rates increase, the cash flow we receive from securities with adjustable-rate coupons is expected to increase while the cash flow we receive on securities that are subordinate to adjustable-rate securities will decrease.  We also acquire loans and securities for future sale, as assets we are accumulating for securitization, or as a longer term investment. We expect to fund assets, loans and securities, with a combination of equity, fixed rate debt and adjustable rate debt. To the extent we use adjustable rate debt to fund assets that have a fixed interest rate (or use fixed rate debt to fund assets that have an adjustable interest rate), an interest rate mismatch could exist and we could, for example, earn less (and fair values could decline) if interest rates rise, at least for a time. We may or may not seek to mitigate interest rate mismatches for these assets with hedges such as swaps and other derivatives and, to the extent we do use hedging techniques, they may not be successful.. Higher interest rates generally reduce the fair value of many of our assets, with the exception of any IOs, MSRs, and adjustable-rate assets we may own. This may affect our earnings results, reduce our ability to securitize, re-securitize, or sell our assets, or reduce our liquidity. Higher interest rates could reduce the ability of borrowers to make interest payments or to refinance their loans. Higher interest rates could reduce property values and increased credit losses could result. Higher interest rates could reduce mortgage originations, thus reducing our opportunities to acquire new assets.. In addition, when short-term interest rates are high relative to long-term interest rates, an increase in adjustable-rate residential loan prepayments may occur, which would likely reduce our returns from owning interest-only securities backed by adjustable-rate residential loans.. It can be difficult to predict the impact on interest rates of unexpected and uncertain global political and economic events, such as the Trump administration policies, the U.K. vote to exit the European Union, or changes in the credit rating of the U.S. government, the United Kingdom, or one or more Eurozone nations; however, increased uncertainty or changes in the economic outlook for, or rating of, the creditworthiness of the U.S. government, the United Kingdom, or Eurozone nations may have adverse impacts on, among other things, the U.S. economy, financial markets, the cost of borrowing, the financial strength of counterparties we transact business with, and the value of assets we hold. Any such adverse impacts could negatively impact the availability to us of short-term debt financing, our cost of short-term debt financing, our business, and our financial results.. We have significant investment and reinvestment risks. Our growth may be limited if assets are not available or not available at attractive prices.. To deploy our capital and reinvest the proceeds from principal repayments we receive on our existing investments, we must invest in or acquire new assets. If the availability of new assets is limited, we may not be able to invest in or acquire assets that will generate attractive returns.   We do not originate residential loans; rather, we rely on the origination market to supply the types of loans we seek to invest in. A significant portion of our portfolio consists of residential mortgage loans originated prior to the financial crisis.  In general, the supply for these types of assets has been shrinking.  Prepayments, defaults, and loan amortization have reduced the outstanding non-Agency MBS market from a peak of $2.6 trillion in 2007 to $782 billion as of 2017.  Accordingly, as the supply of residential credit assets has decreased, investors seeking higher yielding assets has created significant demand for such assets which may make it difficult for us to acquire such loans in the future.. New assets we acquire may not generate yields as attractive as yields on our current assets, which could result in a decline in our earnings per share over time.. We expect that the assets we acquire or invest in may not generate the economic returns and GAAP yields of our existing portfolio. A significant portion of our securitized residential mortgage loans were originated prior to the 2008 financial crisis and have mortgage interest rates exceeding mortgage interest rates currently available to newly originated residential mortgage loans.  In addition, subsequent to the 2008 financial crisis, we acquired residential mortgage-back securities at a significant discount and re-securitized those MBS while retaining high-yielding subordinate securities.. 12. In order to maintain our portfolio size and our earnings, we must reinvest in new assets a portion of the cash flows we receive from principal, interest, and sales. Realized cash flow from new investments could be significantly lower than expected and returns from new investments and acquisitions could be negative. We may also sell assets from time to time as part of our portfolio and capital management strategies. Principal payments, calls, and sales reduce the size of our current portfolio and generate cash for us.. If the assets we invest in or acquire in the future earn lower GAAP yields than do the assets we currently own, our reported earnings per share could decline over time as the older assets are paid down or are sold, assuming comparable expenses, credit costs, and market valuation adjustments.. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, declines in the market value of our assets resulting in us recording impairments, which have had, or may in the future have, an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. A decline in the market value of our MBS or other assets may require us to recognize an other-than-temporary impairment (or \"OTTI\") against such assets under GAAP. When the fair value of our MBS is less than its amortized cost, the security is considered impaired. We assess our impaired securities on at least a quarterly basis and designate such impairments as either temporary or other-than-temporary. The determination as to whether an OTTI exists and, if so, the amount we consider other-than-temporarily impaired is subjective, as such determinations are based on both factual and subjective information available at the time of assessment. As a result, the timing and amount of OTTI constitute material estimates that are susceptible to significant change. In the future, we may experience declines in the fair value of our MBS and other assets that could result in additional OTTI that will be recognized in earnings.. Mortgage loan modification programs, future legislative action and changes in the requirements necessary to qualify for refinancing a mortgage may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, the assets in which we invest.. The U.S. Government, through the Federal Housing Administration, or FHA, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or FDIC, has implemented programs designed to provide homeowners with assistance in avoiding residential mortgage loan foreclosures including the Hope for Homeowners Act of 2008, which allows certain distressed borrowers to refinance their mortgages into FHA-insured loans and the Home Affordable Modification Program, or HAMP, which provided a detailed, uniform model for one-time modification of eligible residential mortgage loans.  The programs may also involve, among other things, the modification of mortgage loans to reduce the principal amount of the loans or the rate of interest payable on the loans, or to extend the payment terms of the loans. Although HAMP expired on December 31, 2016, federal regulators have continued to encourage the mortgage servicing industry and other stakeholders to develop a continuing framework for loss mitigation. In addition, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac announced their Flex Modification foreclosure prevention program, which replaced HAMP and took effect in late 2017. These loan modification programs, including future legislative or regulatory actions and amendments to the bankruptcy laws, that result in the modification of outstanding mortgage loans, as well as changes in the requirements necessary to qualify for refinancing a mortgage loan may affect the value of, and the returns on, our RMBS.  Depending on whether or not we purchased an instrument at a premium or discount, the yield we receive may be positively or negatively impacted by any loan modification.. We may not realize income or gains from our investments.. We invest to generate both current income and capital appreciation. Our investments may, however, not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value, and the borrowers on the mortgage loans underlying the assets in which we invest may default on interest or principal payments. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize income or gains from our investments. Any gains that we do realize may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience and any income that we realize may not be sufficient to offset our expenses.. Risks Associated With Our Operations. Through certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries we have engaged in the past, and expect to continue to engage in, securitization transactions relating to residential mortgage loans. In addition, we have invested in and may in the future invest in mortgage-backed securities issued in securitization transactions sponsored by other companies. These types of transactions and investments expose us to potentially material risks.. A significant part of our business and growth strategy is to engage in various securitization transactions related to mortgage assets, and such transactions expose us to potentially material risks, including without limitation:. 13. Financing Risk: Engaging in securitization transactions and other similar transactions generally requires us to incur short-term debt on a recourse basis to finance the accumulation of residential mortgage loans. If demand for investing in securitization transactions weakens, we may be unable to complete the securitization of loans accumulated for that purpose, which may hurt our business or financial results.. Diligence Risk: In addition, in connection with engaging in securitization transactions, we engage in due diligence and underwriting with respect to the loans or other assets we are securitizing and make representations and warranties relating to those loans and assets. When underwriting or conducting due diligence, we rely on resources and data available to us, which may be limited, and we rely on investigations by third parties. We may also only conduct due diligence on a sample of a pool of loans or assets we are acquiring and assume that the sample is representative of the entire pool. Our underwriting and due diligence efforts may not reveal matters which could lead to losses. If our underwriting process is not robust enough or if we do not conduct adequate due diligence, or the scope of our underwriting or due diligence is limited, we may incur losses. Losses could occur due to the fact that a counterparty that sold us a loan or other asset refuses or is unable (e.g., due to its financial condition) to repurchase that loan or asset or pay damages to us if we determine subsequent to purchase that one or more of the representations or warranties made to us in connection with the sale was inaccurate.. Disclosure and Indemnity Risk: When engaging in securitization transactions, we also prepare marketing and disclosure documentation, including term sheets and prospectuses, that include disclosures regarding the securitization transactions and the assets being securitized. If our marketing and disclosure documentation are alleged or found to contain inaccuracies or omissions, we may be liable under federal and state securities laws (or under other laws) for damages to third parties that invest in these securitization transactions, including in circumstances where we relied on a third party in preparing accurate disclosures, or we may incur other expenses and costs in connection with disputing these allegations or settling claims. Additionally, we typically retain various third-party service providers when we engage in securitization transactions, including underwriters, trustees, administrative and paying agents, and custodians, among others. We frequently contractually agree to indemnify these service providers against various claims and losses they may suffer in connection with the provision of services to us and/or the securitization trust. To the extent any of these service providers are liable for damages to third parties that have invested in these securitization transactions, we may incur costs and expenses as a result of these indemnities.. Documentation Defects: In recent years there has also been debate as to whether there are defects in the legal process and legal documents governing transactions in which securitization trusts and other secondary purchasers take legal ownership of residential mortgage loans and establish their rights as priority lien holders on underlying mortgaged property. To the extent there are problems with the manner in which title and lien priority rights were established or transferred, securitization transactions that we sponsored and third-party sponsored securitizations that we hold investments in may experience losses, which could expose us to losses and could damage our ability to engage in future securitization transactions.. Our ability to profitably execute or participate in future securitizations transactions, including, in particular, securitizations of residential mortgage loans, is dependent on numerous factors and if we are not able to achieve our desired level of profitability or if we incur losses in connection with executing or participating in future securitizations it could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results.. There are a number of factors that can have a significant impact on whether a securitization transaction that we execute or participate in is profitable to us or results in a loss. One of these factors is the price we pay for the mortgage loans that we securitize, which, in the case of residential mortgage loans, is impacted by the level of competition in the marketplace for acquiring residential mortgage loans and the relative desirability to originators or other financial institutions of retaining residential mortgage loans as investments or selling them to third parties such as us. Another factor that impacts the profitability of a securitization transaction is the cost to us of the short-term debt that we use to finance our holdings of mortgage loans prior to securitization, which cost is affected by a number of factors including the availability of this type of financing to us, the interest rate on this type of financing, the duration of the financing we incur, and the percentage of our mortgage loans for which third parties are willing to provide short-term financing.. After we acquire mortgage loans that we intend to securitize, we can also suffer losses if the value of those loans declines prior to securitization. Declines in the value of a residential mortgage loan, for example, can be due to, among other things, changes in interest rates, changes in the credit quality of the loan, and changes in the projected yields required by investors to invest in securitization transactions. To the extent we seek to hedge against a decline in loan value due to changes in interest rates, there is a cost of hedging that also affects whether a securitization is profitable.. The price that investors in mortgage-backed securities will pay for securities issued in our securitization transactions also has a significant impact on the profitability of the transactions to us, and these prices are impacted by numerous market forces and factors. In addition, the underwriter(s) or placement agent(s) we select for securitization transactions, and the terms of their. 14. engagement, can also impact the profitability of our securitization transactions. Also, transaction costs incurred in executing transactions impact the profitability of our securitization transactions and any liability that we may incur, or may be required to reserve for, in connection with executing a transaction can cause a loss to us. To the extent that were are not able to profitably execute future securitizations of residential mortgage loans or other assets, including for the reasons described above or for other reasons, it could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results.. In connection with our operating and investment activity, we rely on third parties to perform certain services particularly as it relates to servicing, comply with applicable laws and regulations, and carry out contractual covenants and terms, the failure of which by any of these third parties may adversely impact our business and financial results.. In connection with our business of acquiring loans, engaging in securitization transactions, and investing in third-party issued securities and other assets, we rely on third party service providers to perform certain services, comply with applicable laws and regulations, and carry out contractual covenants and terms. As a result, we are subject to the risks associated with a third party's failure to perform, including failure to perform due to reasons such as fraud, negligence, errors, miscalculations, or insolvency. For example, if loan servicers experience higher volumes of delinquent loans than they have in the past, there is a risk that, as a result, their operational infrastructures may not be able to properly process this increased volume. Many loan servicers have been accused of improprieties in the handling of the loan mitigation and foreclosure processes with respect to residential mortgage loans that have gone into default. To the extent a third party loan servicer fails to fully and properly perform its obligations, loans and securities that we hold as investments may experience losses and securitizations that we have sponsored may experience poor performance, and our ability to engage in future securitization transactions could be harmed.. For a majority of the loans that we hold and securitize, we hold the right to service those loans and we retain a sub-servicer to service those loans. In these circumstances we are exposed to certain risks, including, without limitation, that we may not be able to enter into subservicing agreements on favorable terms to us or at all, or that the sub-servicer may not properly service the loan in compliance with applicable laws and regulations or the contractual provisions governing their sub-servicing role, and that we would be held liable for the sub-servicer's improper acts or omissions. Additionally, in its capacity as a servicer of residential mortgage loans, a sub-servicer will have access to borrowers' non-public personal information, and we could incur liability in connection with a data breach relating to a sub-servicer or misuse or mismanagement of data by a sub-servicer.  We also rely on technology infrastructure and systems of third parties who provide services to us and with whom we transact business. To the extent any one sub-servicer counterparty services a significant percentage of the loans with respect to which we own the servicing rights, the risks associated with our use of that sub-servicer are concentrated around this single sub-servicer counterparty. To the extent that there are significant amounts of advances that need to be funded in respect of loans where we own the servicing right, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. We also rely on corporate trustees to act on behalf of us in enforcing our rights as security holders. Under the terms of most RMBS we hold, we do not have the right to directly enforce remedies against the issuer of the security, but instead must rely on a trustee to act on behalf of us and other security holders. Should a trustee not be required to take action under the terms of the securities, or fail to take action, we could experience losses.. We utilize third party analytical models and data in connection with the valuation of our investments, and any incorrect, misleading or incomplete information used in connection therewith would subject us to potential risks.. Given the complexity of our investments and strategies, we rely heavily on analytical models and information and data supplied by third-parties (\"Third Party Data\").  Third Party Data is used to value investments or potential investments and also in connection with hedging our investments.  When Third Party Data proves to be incorrect, misleading or incomplete, any decisions made in reliance thereon expose us to potential risks. For example, by relying on Third Party Data, especially valuation models, we may be induced to buy certain investments at prices that are too high, to sell certain other investments at prices that are too low or to miss favorable opportunities altogether.  Similarly, any hedging based on faulty Third Party Data may prove to be unsuccessful.  Furthermore, any valuations of our investments that are based on valuation models may prove to be incorrect.. Some of the risks of relying on Third Party Data are particular to analyzing tranches from securitizations, such as RMBS. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following: (i) collateral cash flows and/or liability structures may be incorrectly modeled in all or only certain scenarios, or may be modeled based on simplifying assumptions that lead to errors; (ii) information about collateral may be incorrect, incomplete, or misleading; (iii) collateral or bond historical performance (such as historical prepayments, defaults, cash flows, etc.) may be incorrectly reported, or subject to interpretation (e.g., different issuers may report delinquency statistics based on different definitions of what constitutes a delinquent loan); or (iv) collateral or bond information may be outdated, in which case the models may contain incorrect assumptions as to what has occurred since the date information was last updated.. 15. Some of the Third Party Data we use, such as mortgage prepayment models or mortgage default models, are predictive in nature.  The use of predictive models has inherent risks.  For example, such models may incorrectly forecast future behavior, leading to potential losses on a cash flow and/or a mark-to-market basis. In addition, the predictive models we use may differ substantially from those models used by other market participants, with the result that valuations based on these predictive models may be substantially higher or lower for certain investments than actual market prices.  Furthermore, since predictive models are usually constructed based on historical data supplied by third-parties, the success of relying on such models may depend heavily on the accuracy and reliability of the supplied historical data and the ability of these historical models to accurately reflect future periods.. All valuation models rely on correct market data inputs. Certain assumptions used as inputs to the models may be based on historical trends and these trends may not be indicative of future results. If incorrect market data is entered into even a well-designed valuation model, the resulting valuations will be incorrect. However, even if market data is appropriately captured in the model, the resulting \"model prices\" will often differ substantially from market prices, especially for securities with complex characteristics, such as derivative securities.. The majority of our investments in subordinated RMBS are generally in the \"first loss\" position and our investments in the mezzanine RMBS are generally in the \"second loss\" position and therefore subject to greater risk of loss.. In general, losses on a mortgage loan included in a securitization will be borne first by the equity holder of the issuing trust, and then by the \"first loss\" subordinated security holder and then by the \"second loss\" mezzanine holder.  In the event of default and the exhaustion of any classes of securities junior to those in which we invest and there is any further loss, we will not be able to recover all of our investment in the securities we purchase.  In addition, if the underlying mortgage portfolio has been overvalued by the originator, or if the values subsequently decline and, as a result, less collateral is available to satisfy interest and principal payments due on the related RMBS, the securities in which we invest may effectively become the \"first loss\" position behind the more senior securities, which may result in significant losses to us.  The prices of lower credit quality securities are generally less sensitive to interest rate changes than more highly rated investments, but more sensitive to adverse economic downturns or individual issuer developments.  A projection of an economic downturn, for example, could cause a decline in the price of lower credit quality securities because the ability of borrowers of mortgages underlying RMBS to make principal and interest payments may be impaired.  In such event, existing credit support in the securitization structure may be insufficient to protect us against loss of our principal on these securities.. A flat or inverted yield curve may adversely affect adjustable-rate MBS prepayment rates and supply.. Our net interest income varies primarily as a result of changes in interest rates as well as changes in interest rates across the yield curve. When the differential between short-term and long-term benchmark interest rates narrows, the yield curve is said to be \"flattening.\" We believe that when the yield curve is relatively flat, borrowers have an incentive to refinance into hybrid ARMs with longer initial fixed-rate periods and fixed rate mortgages, causing our MBS to experience faster prepayments. In addition, a flatter yield curve generally leads to fixed-rate mortgage rates that are closer to the interest rates available on ARMs, potentially decreasing the supply of adjustable-rate RMBS. At times, short-term interest rates may increase and exceed long-term interest rates, causing an inverted yield curve. When the yield curve is inverted, fixed-rate mortgage rates may approach or be lower than mortgage rates on ARMs, further increasing adjustable-rate MBS prepayments and negatively impacting adjustable-rate MBS supply. Increases in prepayments on our MBS portfolio cause our premium amortization to accelerate, lowering the yield on such assets. If this happens, we could experience a decrease in net income or incur a net loss during these periods, which may negatively impact our distributions to stockholders.. We have and may in the future invest in RMBS collateralized by subprime mortgage loans, which are subject to increased risks.. We have invested in and may in the future invest in RMBS backed by collateral pools of subprime residential mortgage loans. ''Subprime'' mortgage loans refer to mortgage loans that have been originated using underwriting standards that are less restrictive than the underwriting requirements used for other first and junior lien mortgage loan purchase programs, such as the programs of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. These lower standards include mortgage loans made to borrowers having imperfect or impaired credit histories (including outstanding judgments or prior bankruptcies), mortgage loans where the amount of the loan at origination is 80% or more of the value of the mortgaged property, mortgage loans made to borrowers with low credit scores, mortgage loans made to borrowers who have other debt that represents a large portion of their income and mortgage loans made to borrowers whose income is not required to be disclosed or verified. Due to economic conditions, including increased interest rates and lower home prices, as well as aggressive lending practices, subprime mortgage loans have in recent periods experienced increased rates of delinquency, foreclosure, bankruptcy and loss, and they are likely to continue to. 16. experience delinquency, foreclosure, bankruptcy and loss rates that are higher, and that may be substantially higher, than those experienced by mortgage loans underwritten in a more traditional manner. Thus, because of the higher delinquency rates and losses associated with subprime mortgage loans, the performance of RMBS collateralized by subprime mortgage loans in which we may invest could be correspondingly adversely affected, which could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and business.. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities and more established competitors may be able to compete more effectively for investment opportunities than we can.. We compete with other REITs, public and private funds, commercial and investment banks and commercial finance companies for investment opportunities. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Several other REITs have raised, or are expected to raise, significant amounts of capital, and may have investment objectives that overlap with ours, which may create competition for investment opportunities. Some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more favorable relationships than us. We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objectives.. Maintaining cybersecurity is important to our business and a breach of our cybersecurity could have a material adverse impact. We are highly dependent on information systems and third parties, and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our capital stock and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders.. When we acquire residential mortgage loans, or the rights to service residential mortgage loans, we come into possession of non-public personal information that an identity thief could utilize in engaging in fraudulent activity or theft. We may share this information with third party service providers, including loan sub-servicers, with third parties interested in acquiring such loans from us or with other third parties, as required or permitted by law. We may be liable for losses suffered by individuals whose personal information is stolen as a result of a breach of the security of the systems that we or third party service providers of ours store this information on, or as a result of other mismanagement of such information, and any such liability could be material. Even if we are not liable for such losses, any breach of these systems could exposes us to material costs in notifying affected individuals or other parties and providing credit monitoring services, as well as to regulatory fines or penalties. In addition, any breach of these systems could disrupt our normal business operations and exposes us to reputational damage and lost business, revenues, and profits. Any insurance we maintain against the risk of this type of loss may not be sufficient to cover actual losses, or may not apply to the circumstances relating to any particular breach.. In addition, our business is highly dependent on communications and information systems. Any failure or interruption of our systems or cyber-attacks or security breaches of our networks or systems could cause delays or other problems in our securities trading activities, including mortgage-backed securities trading activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our capital stock and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders.  In addition, we also face the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the third parties with which we do business or that facilitate our business activities, including clearing agents or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions.. Computer malware, viruses, and computer hacking and phishing attacks have become more prevalent and sophisticated in our industry and we are and will continue to be from time to time the target of attempted cyber and other security threats.  We must continuously monitor and develop our information technology networks and infrastructure to prevent, detect, address and mitigate the risk of unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses and other events that could have a security impact.  We continuously work to install new, and upgrade existing information technology systems and provide employee awareness training around cyber risks but there is no guarantee we will be successful in our efforts.. We also rely heavily on our financial, accounting and other data processing systems.  It is difficult to determine what, if any, negative impact may directly result from any specific interruption or cyber-attacks or security breaches of our networks or systems or any failure to maintain performance, reliability and security of our technical infrastructure.  However, any such computer malware, viruses, and computer hacking and phishing attacks may negatively affect our operations.. We are dependent on our executive officers and other key personnel for our success.. 17. Our success is dependent upon the efforts, experience, diligence, skill and network of business contacts of our executive officers and key personnel. The departure of any of our executive officers or key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operations and performance.. We may change our investment strategy, asset allocation, or financing plans without stockholder consent, which may result in riskier investments.. We may change our investment strategy, asset allocation, or financing plans at any time without the consent of our stockholders, which could result in our making investments that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the investments described in this 2017 Form 10-K.  A change in our investment strategy or financing plans may increase our exposure to interest rate and default risk and real estate market fluctuations. Furthermore, a change in our asset allocation could result in our making investments in asset categories different from those described in this 2017 Form 10-K. These changes could adversely affect the market price of our capital stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. We may engage in new business initiatives and invest in different types of assets that we are not accustomed to and these activities could expose us to new, different or increased risks.. We continually evaluate new business opportunities and investment strategies that may allow us to diversify our business. We have and may in the future invest in a variety of mortgage-related and other financial assets that may or may not be closely related to our existing business. Additionally, we may enter other operating businesses that may or may not be closely related to our current business. These new assets or business operations may have new, different or increased risks than what we are currently exposed to in our business and we may not be able to manage these risks successfully. Additionally, when investing in new assets or businesses we will be exposed to the risk that those assets, or income generated by those assets or businesses, will affect our ability to meet the requirements to maintain our qualification as a REIT or our exemption from registration under the 1940 Act. If we are not able to successfully manage the risks associated with new asset types or businesses, it could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may invest in securities in the developing Agency risk transfer sector that are subject to mortgage credit risk.. We may invest in securities in the developing Agency risk transfer sector (\"CRT Sector\").  The CRT Sector is comprised of the risk sharing transactions issued by Fannie Mae (such transactions, \"CAS\") and Freddie Mac (such transactions, \"STACR\"), and similarly structured transactions arranged by third party market participants.   The securities issued in the CRT Sector are designed to synthetically transfer mortgage credit risk from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to private investors.  Currently, CAS and STACR transactions are structured as unsecured and unguaranteed bonds issued by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, respectively, whose principal payments are determined by the delinquency and prepayment experience of a reference pool of mortgages originated and guaranteed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, respectively, in a particular quarter. Transactions arranged by third party market participants in the CRT Sector are similarly structured to reference a specific pool of loans that have been securitized by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac and synthetically transfer mortgage credit risk related to those loans to the purchaser of the securities.  The holder of the securities in the CRT Sector has the risk that the borrowers may default on their obligations to make full and timely payments of principal and interest.  Investments in securities in the CRT Sector could cause us to incur losses of income from, and/or losses in market value relating to, these assets if there are defaults of principal and/or interest on the pool of mortgages referenced in the transaction.. Risks Associated With Adverse Developments in the Mortgage Finance and Credit Markets. Current Developments in the Residential Mortgage Market May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition.. Since the second quarter of 2007, the residential mortgage market in the United States and the United States economy have experienced a variety of difficulties and negative economic conditions that may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  Delinquencies and losses with respect to residential mortgage loans increased substantially during this period, and only recently have begun to lessen.  Housing prices and appraised values for properties also declined during this period, often severely, after extended periods of significant appreciation.. Price deteriorations and increases in volatility and uncertainty were particularly acute in the case of mortgage securities with underlying mortgage loans that were originated in the periods immediately prior to 2007.  In addition, mortgage securities where the underlying mortgage loans were of lower quality or where the mortgage securities were subordinated to other mortgage securities based on the same mortgage loans experienced more significant and adverse price deteriorations and volatility.. 18. The conservatorships of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the current uncertainty regarding the future status of these organizations may adversely affect the real estate market and the value of our real estate assets generally.  It remains unclear to what extent the ability of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to act as the primary sources of liquidity in the residential mortgage markets, both by purchasing mortgage loans for portfolio and by guaranteeing mortgage-backed securities, may be curtailed.. Although no such legislation is currently pending before Congress, legislation has been proposed in the past in Congress that would wind down Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac over five years, and replace them with a new housing finance system under which a new federal insurance entity would insure mortgage-backed securities (but would not purchase loans), with substantial first loss coverage to be provided by private guarantors who would be able to transfer first loss positions to the capital markets.  Similar legislation could be proposed in the future, which underscores the potential for change to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  Any decline in the value of securities issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac may affect the value of RMBS and mortgage loans in general.. Comprehensive housing finance reform and the termination of the conservatorships of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were not achieved during the Obama Administration and these subjects did not receive significant attention during the 2016 presidential campaign.  However, President Donald Trump's Treasury Secretary has made comments that suggested that the subjects of housing finance reform and ending the conservatorships of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could be on the agenda for the Trump Administration.  Thus, it appears that the subject of comprehensive reform of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could receive attention during the Trump Administration.. In addition, federal, state and local authorities have proposed and enacted new legislation, rules and regulations relating to the origination, servicing and bankruptcy treatment of mortgage loans.  These initiatives could result in delayed or reduced collections from mortgagors, higher loss severities upon liquidation, limitations on the foreclosure process, generally increased servicing costs and increased illiquidity in the market for mortgage-backed securities.. The global markets have seen an increase in volatility due to uncertainty surrounding the level and sustainability of sovereign debt of certain countries that are part of the European Union as well as the sustainability of the European Union itself.  It is uncertain what effects these events will have and what effects any regime change or military action might have on the United States and world financial markets, particular business segments, world commodities prices or otherwise.  There can be no assurance that this uncertainty will not lead to further disruption of the credit markets in the United States.. These adverse changes in market and credit conditions collectively have had, and, even if the market stabilizes, may continue to have, the effect of depressing the market values of RMBS generally, and substantially reducing the liquidity of RMBS generally.  These developments may result in losses to us by reducing the amount of principal and interest payments owed by borrowers and/or reducing liquidation proceeds in connection with foreclosures following defaults, and reduce the yield and value of RMBS as well as the amount of investment proceeds to which RMBS would indirectly be entitled.  In addition, even if market conditions stabilize or improve, the depressing effect of the above adverse changes and conditions on the market value and liquidity of mortgage-backed securities generally may continue for some time.. Market conditions for mortgages and mortgage-related assets as well as the broader financial markets may materially adversely affect the value of the assets in which we invest.. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the markets for mortgages and mortgage-related assets, including MBS, as well as the broader financial markets and the economy generally.  During the financial crisis of 2008, significant adverse changes in financial market conditions resulted in a deleveraging of the entire global financial system and the forced sale of large quantities of mortgage-related and other financial assets.  This caused significant volatility and losses in the market for mortgages and mortgage-related assets. The 2008 financial crisis impacted investor perception of the risk associated with residential MBS, real estate-related securities and various other asset classes in which we invest, which has continued, in varying degrees through the present.  More recently, concerns over economic growth rates and uncertainty regarding future U.S. monetary policy have contributed to increased interest rate volatility.  As a result of these circumstances, values for residential MBS, real estate-related securities and various other asset classes in which we invest have experienced volatility.  Any decline in the value of our investments, or perceived market uncertainty about their value, would likely make it difficult for us to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all, or maintain our compliance with terms of any financing arrangements already in place.  Renewed volatility or deterioration in the broader residential mortgage and MBS markets could materially adversely affect the performance and market value of our investments.. The Policies of the Trump Administration and Related Impacts on the U.S. Economy and Economic Conditions Abroad May Adversely Affect our Business.. 19. The Trump Administration has articulated its intent to make proposals that, if implemented, may result in modifications of existing U.S. trade agreements. Parties linked to the Trump Administration have also expressed an intention to pursue widespread reform of the U.S. mortgage finance system, including the potential restructuring of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  These changes may have significant effects on real estate values and prevailing mortgage rates for residential properties.  Such changes could lead to increases or decreases in housing inventories based on fluctuations in residential real estate values as well as fluctuations in residential mortgage rates, which could have a significant impact on affordability.  In addition, there is considerable uncertainty as to which of these policies, if any, will ultimately be implemented.  Finally, ongoing questions with regard to post-election policies could reduce future business investment and consumption patterns, which in turn could adversely affect the mortgagors and, consequently, the yield on our mortgage loans and RMBS.. The Recent Passage of H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act May Adversely Affect our Business.. On December 22, 2017, H.R. 1, informally known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"TCJA\") was enacted that included changes that could have an adverse impact on the U.S. residential housing market and potentially impact the market value of our investments.  The TCJA includes, among other items, the reduction of the deduction of interest on mortgage debt, the limitation on the deduction for state and local taxes and a limitation on property tax deductions, which may reduce home affordability and adversely affect home prices nationally or in local markets.  In addition, such changes may increase taxes payable by certain borrowers, thereby reducing their available cash and adversely impacting their ability to make payments, which in turn, could cause losses on our investments.. Impending Exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union May Adversely Affect our Business.. On June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom voted to leave the European Union (the \"EU\") in a referendum (the \"Brexit Vote\") and on March 29, 2017, the United Kingdom exercised Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union, which gives a member state the right to withdraw from the EU.  The United Kingdom is in negotiation with the remaining EU member states regarding the terms of the United Kingdom's withdrawal from, and the framework for any future relationships with, the remaining member states.  Concurrently, the United Kingdom is expected to embark on a process of negotiating certain bilateral trade agreements with other non-EU countries.  This period of negotiation is expected to take several years, and although the timing of the United Kingdom's ultimate withdrawal from the EU is not yet known, it is unlikely to be before March of 2019.  During this period there is likely to be a continued heightened risk of market instability as well as general legal and regulatory uncertainty.. It is uncertain what effect the United Kingdom's future exit from the EU will have on economic conditions in the United Kingdom, the EU, or globally.  This withdrawal could adversely affect United Kingdom, European, or worldwide economic or market conditions and could contribute to uncertainty and instability in global financial markets.  Additionally, this withdrawal could significantly impact volatility, liquidity, and/or the market value of securities, including RMBS.. The Brexit Vote has resulted in downgrades of the sovereign rating of the United Kingdom and the Bank of England by S&P Global Ratings (\"S&P\"), and by Fitch Inc. (\"Fitch\").  S&P, Fitch and Moody's Investors Service, Inc. (\"Moody's\") have all placed a negative outlook on the sovereign rating of the United Kingdom and that of the Bank of England, suggesting a strong possibility of further negative rating action.  Since the Brexit Vote, there has been volatility and disruption of the capital, currency and credit markets, including the market for asset-backed securities.. Downgrade of Long-term Ratings of Eurozone Nations and the planned exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union May Adversely Affect Our Business.. In response to the economic situation facing countries included in the European Economic and Monetary Union (the \"Eurozone\"), and based on factors including tightening credit conditions, higher risk premiums on Eurozone sovereigns and disagreement among European policy makers as to how best to address the declining market confidence with respect to the Eurozone, ratings downgrades by various rating agencies on several countries included in the Eurozone and the European Financial Stability Facility have occurred or ratings outlooks have been placed on negative watch.  It is not clear if and how these downgrades and negative changes in outlook will impact the market price or the marketability of RMBS, and no assurance can be given that these ratings actions or future ratings actions will not have an adverse effect on the value of RMBS.  Some economists, observers and market participants have expressed concern regarding the sustainability of the Eurozone in its current form.. Adverse developments involving major financial institutions and our lenders, including European counterparties, could result in a rapid reduction in our ability to borrow and materially adversely affect our business, profitability and liquidity.. 20. A significant portion of our Agency MBS is financed with repurchase agreements. We secure our borrowings under these agreements by pledging our Agency MBS as collateral to the lender. The collateral we pledge exceeds the amount of the borrowings under each agreement. If the counterparty to the repurchase agreement defaults on its obligations and we are not able to recover our pledged assets, we are at risk of losing the over-collateralized amount. The amount of this exposure is the difference between the amount loaned to us plus interest due to the counterparty and the fair value of the collateral pledged by us to the lender including accrued interest receivable on such collateral.. We also use interest rate swaps to manage our interest rate risks. Under these swap agreements, we pledge Agency MBS or cash as collateral as part of a margin arrangement for interest rate swaps that are in an unrealized loss position. If a counterparty were to default on its obligation, we would be exposed to a loss to a swap counterparty to the extent that the amount of our Agency MBS pledged exceeded the unrealized loss on the associated swaps and we were not able to recover the excess collateral.. Over the past several years, several large financial institutions, including those domiciled in Europe, have experienced financial difficulty and have been either rescued by government assistance or by other large banks or institutions. Some economists, observers and market participants have expressed concern regarding the sustainability of the Eurozone in its current form. In response to the economic situation facing countries included in the Eurozone, and due to factors, such as tightening credit conditions, higher risk premiums on Eurozone sovereigns and disagreement among European policy makers on how to address the declining market confidence in the Eurozone, various rating agencies have downgraded ratings or issued negative outlooks on several countries included in the Eurozone and the European Financial Stability Facility. Some of these financial institutions have provided us financing under repurchase agreements or we have entered into interest rate swaps with such institutions. Any future adverse developments involving major financial institutions or our lenders could affect our ability to borrow and materially adversely affect our business, profitability and liquidity.. In addition, we have entered into repurchase agreements and/or interest rate swaps with six financial institution counterparties that are either domiciled in Europe or a U.S.-based subsidiary of a European domiciled financial institution. It is possible that the European credit crisis may impact the operations of the U.S. subsidiaries of a European domiciled financial institution. Our financings and operations could be adversely affected by such events.. Risks Related to Financing. Failure to procure adequate capital and funding on favorable terms, or at all, would adversely affect our results and may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of shares of our capital stock and our ability to distribute dividends to our stockholders.. We depend upon the availability of adequate funding and capital for our operations.  We have financed and intend to continue to finance our assets through a variety of means, including repurchase agreements, warehouse facilities, credit facilities and securitizations.  Our access to capital depends upon a number of factors, over which we have little or no control, including:.  general market conditions;.  the market's perception of our growth potential;.  our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions;.  the market price of the shares of our capital stock; and.  the market's view of the quality of our assets.. Current market conditions have affected the cost and availability of financing from each of these sources - and their individual providers - to different degrees; some are available but at a high cost, and some are largely unaffected. For example, in the repurchase agreement market, borrowers have been affected differently depending on the type of security they are financing.. The impairment of financial institutions could negatively affect us.  If one or more major market participants fail or otherwise experience a major liquidity crisis, it could adversely affect the marketability of all fixed income securities and this could negatively impact the value of the securities we acquire, thus reducing our net book value.. Furthermore, if any of our lenders or any of our potential lenders are unwilling or unable to provide us with financing, we could be forced to sell our securities and/or residential mortgage loans at an inopportune time (e.g. when prices are depressed).. 21. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets.  We cannot assure you, under such extreme conditions, that these markets will remain an efficient source of long-term financing for our assets.  If our strategy is not viable, we will have to find alternative forms of financing for our assets, which may not be available.  Further, as a REIT, we are required to distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (subject to certain adjustments) to our stockholders and are, therefore, not able to retain significant amounts of our earnings for new investments.  We cannot assure you that any, or sufficient, funding or capital will be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us.  If we cannot obtain sufficient funding on acceptable terms, there may be a negative impact on the market price of our capital stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.  Moreover, our ability to grow will be dependent on our ability to procure additional funding.  To the extent we are not able to raise additional funds through the issuance of additional equity or borrowings, our growth will be constrained.. Certain financing facilities may contain covenants that restrict our operations and may inhibit our ability to grow our business and increase revenues.. Certain financing facilities we may enter into contain restrictions, covenants, and representations and warranties that, among other things, may require us to satisfy specified financial, asset quality, loan eligibility and loan performance tests. If we fail to meet or satisfy any of these covenants or representations and warranties, we would be in default under these agreements and our lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the agreements to be immediately due and payable, enforce their respective interests against collateral pledged under such agreements and restrict our ability to make additional borrowings. Certain financing agreements may contain cross-default provisions by a guarantor, so that if a default occurs under any guaranty agreement, the lenders under our other agreements could also declare a default. The covenants and restrictions we expect in our financing facilities may restrict our ability to, among other things:. incur or guarantee additional debt;. make certain investments or acquisitions;. make distributions on or repurchase or redeem capital stock;. engage in mergers or consolidations;. finance mortgage loans with certain attributes;. reduce liquidity below certain levels;. grant liens;. incur operating losses for more than a specified period;. enter into transactions with affiliates; and. hold mortgage loans for longer than established time periods.. These restrictions may interfere with our ability to obtain financing, or to engage in other business activities, which may have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. A default and resulting repayment acceleration could significantly reduce our liquidity, which could require us to sell our assets to repay amounts due and outstanding. This could also significantly harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and our ability to make distributions, which could cause the value of our capital stock to decline. A default will also significantly limit our financing alternatives such that we will be unable to pursue our leverage strategy, which could curtail our investment returns.. The repurchase agreements, warehouse facilities and credit facilities that we use to finance our investments may require us to provide additional collateral.. We use repurchase agreements, warehouse facilities and credit facilities to finance our investments. As of December 31, 2017, we had uncommitted repurchase agreements with 27 counterparties for financing our MBS.  Under our repurchase agreements, the counterparty may refuse to advance funds to us.  If the market value of the loans or securities pledged or sold by us to a funding source decline in value, we may be required by the funding source to provide additional collateral or pay down a portion of the outstanding borrowings.  For more information on margin calls and the potential implications to our business, see \"We leverage our investments, which may cause margin calls and defaults that would adversely affect our return on our investments and may reduce cash available for distribution to our stockholders.\" In the event we do not have sufficient liquidity to meet such requirements, lending institutions can accelerate repayment of our indebtedness, increase our borrowing rates, liquidate our collateral or terminate our ability to borrow.  Further, financial institutions may require us to maintain a certain amount of cash that is not invested or to set aside non-levered assets sufficient to maintain a specified liquidity position which would enable us to satisfy our collateral obligations. This would limit our ability to leverage our assets, which could reduce our return on equity.. We leverage our investments through borrowings, generally through the use of repurchase agreements, warehouse facilities, credit facilities and securitizations. Under such arrangements, we are not required to maintain any specific debt-to-equity ratio.. 22. The amount of leverage we incur varies depending on the asset type, our ability to obtain borrowings, the lenders' and rating agencies' estimates of the stability of the investments' cash flow, and our assessment of the appropriate amount of leverage for the particular assets we are funding. Under some of our credit facilities, we may be required to maintain minimum average cash balances. A decrease in the value of our assets that are leveraged may lead to margin calls, which would require us to repay a portion of the outstanding borrowings, transfer additional assets to such lender without any advance of funds from the lender for such transfer, or sell assets at significantly depressed prices to meet such margin calls and to maintain adequate liquidity. The satisfaction of such margin calls would also reduce our liquidity and adversely affect our ability to service debt.  The return on our investments and cash available for distribution to our stockholders may also be reduced to the extent that changes in market conditions prevent us from leveraging our investments, require us to decrease our rate of leverage, increase the amount of collateral we post, or increase the cost of our financing relative to the income that can be derived from the assets acquired. Any reduction in distributions to our stockholders or sales of assets at inopportune times or prices may cause the value of our capital stock to decline, in some cases, precipitously.. If the counterparty to our repurchase transactions defaults on its obligation to resell the underlying security back to us at the end of the transaction term, or if the value of the underlying security has declined as of the end of that term or if we default on our obligations under the repurchase agreement, we will lose money on our repurchase transactions.. When we engage in a repurchase transaction, we generally sell securities to the transaction counterparty and receive cash from the counterparty. The counterparty is obligated to resell the securities back to us at the end of the term of the transaction, which is typically 30-90 days. Because the cash we receive from the counterparty when we initially sell the securities to the counterparty is less than the value of those securities (this difference is referred to as the haircut), if the counterparty defaults on its obligation to resell the securities back to us we would incur a loss on the transaction equal to the amount of the haircut (assuming there was no change in the value of the securities). We would also lose money on a repurchase transaction if the value of the underlying securities has declined as of the end of the transaction term, as we would have to repurchase the securities for their initial value but would receive securities worth less than that amount. Any losses we incur on our repurchase transactions could adversely affect our earnings, and thus our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. If we default on one of our obligations under a repurchase transaction, the counterparty can terminate the transaction and cease entering into any other repurchase transactions with us. In that case, we would likely need to establish a replacement repurchase facility with another repurchase dealer in order to continue to leverage our portfolio and carry out our investment strategy. There is no assurance we would be able to establish a suitable replacement facility.. Our rights under our repurchase agreements are subject to the effects of the bankruptcy laws in the event of the bankruptcy or insolvency of us or our lenders under the repurchase agreements.. In the event of our insolvency or bankruptcy, certain repurchase agreements may qualify for special treatment under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, the effect of which, among other things, would be to allow the lender under the applicable repurchase agreement to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and to foreclose on the collateral agreement without delay.. In the event of the insolvency or bankruptcy of a lender during the term of a repurchase agreement, the lender may be permitted, under applicable insolvency laws, to repudiate the contract, and our claim against the lender for damages may be treated simply as an unsecured creditor. In addition, if the lender is a broker or dealer subject to the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970, or an insured depository institution subject to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, our ability to exercise our rights to recover our securities under a repurchase agreement or to be compensated for any damages resulting from the lender's insolvency may be further limited by those statutes. These claims would be subject to significant delay and, if and when received, may be substantially less than the damages we actually incur.. An increase in our borrowing costs relative to the interest we receive on our assets may adversely affect our profitability, and thus our cash available for distribution to our stockholders.. As our repurchase agreements and other short-term borrowings mature, we will be required either to enter into new borrowings or to sell certain of our investments. An increase in short-term interest rates at the time that we seek to enter into new borrowings would reduce the spread between our returns on our assets and the cost of our borrowings. This would adversely affect our returns on our assets that are subject to prepayment risk, including our RMBS, which might reduce earnings and, in turn, cash available for distribution to our stockholders.. If we issue senior securities, we will be exposed to additional risks.. 23. If we decide to issue senior securities in the future, it is likely that they will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. Additionally, any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our capital stock and may result in dilution to owners of our capital stock. We and, indirectly, our stockholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities.. We depend on warehouse, repurchase and credit facilities to execute our business plan, and our inability to access funding could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business.. Our ability to fund our investments depends largely upon our ability to secure warehouse, repurchase and credit financing on acceptable terms. We can provide no assurance that we will be successful in establishing sufficient warehouse, repurchase, and credit facilities. If we are not able to renew our existing warehouse, repurchase, and credit facilities or arrange for new financing on terms acceptable to us, or if we default on our covenants or are otherwise unable to access funds under any of these facilities, we will have to curtail our asset acquisition activities.. In addition, if the regulatory capital requirements imposed on our lenders change, they may be required to significantly increase the cost of the facilities that they provide to us. Our lenders also may revise their eligibility requirements for the types of assets they are willing to finance or the terms of such financings, based on, among other factors, the regulatory environment and their management of perceived risk, particularly with respect to assignee liability. Moreover, the amount of financing we will receive under our warehouse and repurchase facilities will be directly related to the lenders' valuation of the assets that secure the outstanding borrowings. Typically warehouse, repurchase, and credit facilities grant the respective lender the absolute right to reevaluate the market value of the assets that secure outstanding borrowings at any time. If a lender determines in its sole discretion that the value of the assets has decreased, it has the right to initiate a margin call, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, business, liquidity and ability to make distributions to our stockholders, and could cause the value of our capital stock to decline.. Hedging against interest rate exposure may not be successful in mitigating the risks associated with interest rates and may adversely affect our earnings, which could reduce our cash available for distribution to our stockholders.. Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT, we pursue various hedging strategies to seek to reduce our exposure to losses from adverse changes in interest rates. Our hedging activity varies in scope based on the level and volatility of interest rates, the type of assets held, financing used and other changing market conditions. There are no perfect hedging strategies, and interest rate hedging may fail to protect us from loss. Alternatively, we may fail to properly assess a risk to our investment portfolio or may fail to recognize a risk entirely, leaving us exposed to losses without the benefit of any offsetting hedging activities. The derivative financial instruments we select may not have the effect of reducing our interest rate risk. The nature and timing of hedging transactions may influence the effectiveness of these strategies. Poorly designed strategies or improperly executed transactions could actually increase our risk and losses. In addition, hedging activities could result in losses if the event against which we hedge does not occur. For example, interest rate hedging could fail to protect us or adversely affect us because, among other things:.  interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates;.  available interest rate hedges may not correlate directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought;.  the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability;.  the amount of income that a REIT may earn from hedging transactions to offset interest rate losses may be limited by federal tax provisions governing REITs;.  the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction;.  the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay; and.  the value of derivatives used for hedging may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with accounting                rules to reflect changes in fair value. Downward adjustments, or \"mark-to-market losses,\" would reduce our stockholders' equity.. Our hedging transactions, which are intended to limit losses, may actually limit gains and increase our exposure to losses. As a result, our hedging activity may adversely affect our earnings, which could reduce our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. In addition, some hedging instruments involve risk since they are not currently traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities. Consequently, there are no requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions. Furthermore, the enforceability of agreements underlying derivative transactions may depend on compliance with applicable statutory and commodity and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty,. 24. applicable international requirements. The business failure of a hedging counterparty with whom we enter into a hedging transaction will most likely result in its default. Default by a party with whom we enter into a hedging transaction may result in the loss of unrealized profits and force us to cover our commitments, if any, at the then current market price. Although generally we will seek to reserve the right to terminate our hedging positions, it may not always be possible to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty, and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract in order to cover our risk. We cannot assure you that a liquid secondary market will exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses.. We may enter into derivative contracts that could expose us to contingent liabilities in the future.. Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT, part of our investment strategy involves entering into derivative contracts that could require us to fund cash payments in certain circumstances. These potential payments will be contingent liabilities, the value of which are unknown, and therefore may not appear on our Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition. Our ability to fund these contingent liabilities will depend on the liquidity of our assets and access to capital at the time, and the need to fund these contingent liabilities could adversely impact our financial condition.. Changes in banks' inter-bank lending rate reporting practices or the method pursuant to which LIBOR is determined may adversely affect the value of the financial obligations to be held or issued by us that are linked to LIBOR as well as adjustable-rate mortgage loans we hold.. LIBOR and other indices which are deemed \"benchmarks\" are the subject of recent national, international, and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform. Some of these reforms are already effective while others are still to be implemented. These reforms may cause such benchmarks to perform differently than in the past, or have other consequences which cannot be predicted. In particular, regulators and law enforcement agencies in the U.K. and elsewhere are conducting criminal and civil investigations into whether the banks that contribute information to the British Bankers' Association (the \"BBA\") in connection with the daily calculation of LIBOR may have been under-reporting or otherwise manipulating or attempting to manipulate LIBOR. A number of BBA member banks have entered into settlements with their regulators and law enforcement agencies with respect to this alleged manipulation of LIBOR. Actions by the regulators or law enforcement agencies, as well as ICE Benchmark Administration (the current administrator of LIBOR), may result in changes to the manner in which LIBOR is determined or the establishment of alternative reference rates. For example, on July 27, 2017, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority announced that it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit LIBOR rates after 2021.. At this time, it is not possible to predict the effect of any such changes, any establishment of alternative reference rates or any other reforms to LIBOR that may be implemented in the U.K. or elsewhere. Uncertainty as to the nature of such potential changes, alternative reference rates or other reforms may adversely affect the market for or value of any securities on which the interest or dividend is determined by reference to LIBOR, loans, derivatives and other financial obligations or on our overall financial condition or results of operations. More generally, any of the above changes or any other consequential changes to LIBOR or any other \"benchmark\" as a result of international, national or other proposals for reform or other initiatives or investigations, or any further uncertainty in relation to the timing and manner of implementation of such changes, could have a material adverse effect on the value of and return on any securities based on or linked to a \"benchmark.\". In addition, the mortgage notes in which we invest may reference LIBOR as published in specific publications, and may state that if LIBOR as so published is no longer available, the substitute index will be based on comparable information. The effect of the FCA's decision not to sustain LIBOR, or, if changes are ultimately made to LIBOR, the effect of those changes cannot be predicted. In addition, the substitute index that would be chosen for each affected adjustable-rate mortgage, should this occur, as well as the possible choices for such a substitute index that may be available, cannot be predicted. There can be no assurance that borrowers will not object to any such substitute index that may be selected, and the consequences of any such objections also cannot be predicted. If LIBOR in its current form does not survive or if a substitute index is chosen, the market value and/or liquidity of our investments could be adversely affected.. Risks Related To Accounting Matters and our 1940 Act Exemption. Our reported GAAP financial results differ from the taxable income results that impact our dividend distribution requirements and, therefore, our GAAP results may not be an accurate indicator of future taxable income and dividend distributions.. Generally, the cumulative net income we report over the life of an asset will be the same for GAAP and tax purposes, although the timing of this income recognition over the life of the asset could be materially different.  Differences exist in the accounting for GAAP net income and REIT taxable income which can lead to significant variances in the amount and timing of when. 25. income and losses are recognized under these two measures.  Due to these differences, our reported GAAP financial results could materially differ from our determination of taxable income results, which impacts our dividend distribution requirements, and therefore, our GAAP results may not be an accurate indicator of future taxable income and dividend distributions.. We may generate taxable income in excess of our GAAP income on Non-Agency RMBS purchased at a discount to par value, which may result in significant timing variances in the recognition of income and losses.. We have acquired and may in the future acquire Non-Agency RMBS at prices that reflect significant market discounts on their unpaid principal balances. For financial statement reporting purposes, we generally establish a portion of this market discount as a Non-Accretable Difference. This credit reserve is generally not accreted into income for financial statement reporting purposes. For tax purposes, however, we are not permitted to anticipate, or establish a reserve for, credit losses prior to their occurrence. As a result, the entire market discount is accreted into income in determining taxable income during periods in which no actual losses are incurred. Losses are only recognized for tax purposes when incurred (thus lowering taxable income in periods in which losses are incurred). These differences in accounting for tax and GAAP can lead to significant timing variances in the recognition of income and losses. Taxable income on Non-Agency RMBS purchased at a discount to their par value may be higher than GAAP earnings in early periods (before losses are actually incurred). Because we distribute dividends to our stockholders based on our taxable income, our dividend distributions could exceed our GAAP income in periods during which our taxable income exceeds our GAAP income on Non-Agency RMBS purchased at discount to par value and can be significantly less than GAAP income in periods where losses are realized for tax but were realized for GAAP in prior periods.. We have elected not to qualify for hedge accounting treatment for GAAP reporting.. We record derivative and hedge transactions in accordance with GAAP.  Our interest rate swaps have not been designated as hedging instruments for accounting purposes.  Consequently, changes in the fair value of swaps are reported as a component of net income in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.. Changes or declines in the fair values of our assets, liabilities, and hedging instruments can have adverse effects on us, including earnings volatility or reduced earnings, which may reduce cash available for distribution to our stockholders.. A substantial portion of our assets are classified for accounting purposes as \"available-for-sale\" and carried at fair value.  Changes in the fair values of those assets will be directly charged or credited to OCI.  In addition, a decline in values will reduce the book value of our assets. A decline in the fair value of our assets may adversely affect us, particularly in instances where we have borrowed money based on the fair value of those assets. If the fair value of those assets declines, the lender may require us to post additional collateral to support the loan. If we were unable to post the additional collateral, we would have to sell the assets at a time when we might not otherwise choose to do so. A reduction in credit available may reduce our ability to invest and to earn interest income which would reduce cash available for distribution to stockholders.. In addition, the fair value for our assets, liabilities, and hedging instruments can be volatile. The fair values can change rapidly and significantly from a variety of factors, including changes in interest rates, credit performance, perceived risk, supply, demand, and actual and projected cash flows and prepayments.  Decreases in fair value may not necessarily be the result of deterioration in future cash flows. Moreover, fair values for illiquid assets can be difficult to estimate, which may lead to volatility and uncertainty of earnings as a result of OTTI, or book value as a result of increases in unrealized losses.. For GAAP purposes, we estimate the fair value of most, but not all, of the assets and liabilities on our Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition.  In addition, valuation adjustments on certain consolidated assets and our hedging instruments are reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. If we sell an asset below its cost basis, our reported earnings will be reduced by realized losses.. A decrease in the fair value of the securities we own may result in a reduction in our book value due to the accounting standards we are required to apply. Reporting a low book value could have adverse effects such as the inability to meet or agree upon covenants with counterparties, to enter into hedge instruments, or a reduction in the market price of our capital stock.. Changes in the fair values of our assets, liabilities, and derivatives can have various negative effects on us, including reduced earnings, increased earnings volatility, and volatility in our book value.. Fair values for our assets and liabilities, including derivatives, can be volatile and our revenue and income can be impacted by changes in fair values. The fair values can change rapidly and significantly and changes can result from changes in interest rates, perceived risk, supply, demand, and actual and projected cash flows, prepayments, and credit performance. A decrease in fair value may not necessarily be the result of deterioration in future cash flows. Fair values for illiquid assets can be difficult to. 26. estimate, which may lead to volatility and uncertainty of earnings and book value.. For GAAP purposes, we may mark to market some, but not all, of the assets and liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. In addition, valuation adjustments on certain consolidated assets and many of our derivatives are reflected in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. Assets that are funded with certain liabilities and hedges may have differing mark-to-market treatment than the liability or hedge. If we sell an asset that has not been marked to market through our Consolidated Statement of Operations at a reduced market price relative to its cost basis, our reported earnings will be reduced.. Our loan sale profit margins are generally reflective of gains (or losses) over the period from when we identify a loan for purchase until we subsequently sell or securitize the loan. These profit margins may encompass elements of positive or negative market valuation adjustments on loans, hedging gains or losses associated with related risk management activities, and any other related transaction expenses; however, under GAAP, the differing elements may be realized unevenly over the course of one or more quarters for financial reporting purposes, with the result that our financial results may be more volatile and less reflective of the underlying economics of our business activity.. Our calculations of the fair value of the securities, loans, MSRs, derivatives, and certain other assets we own or consolidate are based upon assumptions that are inherently subjective and involve a high degree of management judgment.. We report the fair values of securities, loans, MSRs, derivatives, and certain other assets on our consolidated balance sheets. In computing the fair values for these assets we may make a number of market-based assumptions, including assumptions regarding future interest rates, prepayment rates, discount rates, credit loss rates, and the timing of credit losses. These assumptions are inherently subjective and involve a high degree of management judgment, particularly for illiquid securities and other assets for which market prices are not readily determinable. For further information regarding our assets recorded at fair value see Note 5 to the Financial Statements within this 2017 Form 10-K. Use of different assumptions could materially affect our fair value calculations and our financial results. Further discussion of the risk of our ownership and valuation of illiquid securities is set forth in the immediately following risk factor.. The fair value of certain of the assets on our Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition as calculated according to GAAP may not reflect amounts we would receive if we disposed of those assets.. GAAP requires that we consolidate certain of our RMBS re-securitization transactions on our Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition and report these assets at fair value.  Under GAAP, fair value for these assets is measured by determining the fair value of the underlying RMBS assets we contributed to the re-securitization trust as opposed to evaluating the fair value of the re-securitized securities we acquired as a result of the RMBS re-securitization transaction.. The fair value of the underlying RMBS assets subject to the RMBS re-securitization transactions may differ from the value of the re-securitized securities we received as a result of the RMBS re-securitization transaction.  Discrepancies arise as a result of market dynamics, the limitations of the measurement techniques required by GAAP, the consolidation accounting principles under GAAP and the subordinate nature, complexity, illiquidity and restrictive features of the re-securitized securities we own.  These differences between the fair values of the underlying RMBS consolidated on our Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition under GAAP presentation and the economic value of our investments in the re-securitized securities can be significant.. A discrepancy where the fair value of the underlying RMBS assets contained in a re-securitization trust is different from the amount we would receive if we sold the re-securitized securities we own may result in an overstatement or understatement of our book value due to the accounting standards we are required to apply. Reporting a higher book value than the value of our net investments in assets could have adverse effects on us. The adverse effects could include the inability to agree upon covenants with counterparties, the inability to satisfy collateral demands of counterparties based on their review of our financial statements, or an overestimation in the market price of our capital stock.. Loss of our 1940 Act exemption would adversely affect us and negatively affect the market price of shares of our capital stock and our ability to distribute dividends.. We conduct our operations so that neither we nor any of our subsidiaries are required to register as an investment company under the 1940 Act. Section 3(a)(1)(A) of the 1940 Act defines an investment company as any issuer that is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities.  Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the 1940 Act defines an investment company as any issuer that is engaged or proposes to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and owns or proposes to acquire investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of. 27. the value of the issuer's total assets (exclusive of U.S. Government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis, which we refer to as the 40% test.  Excluded from the term \"investment securities,\" among other things, are U.S. government securities and securities issued by majority-owned subsidiaries that are not themselves investment companies and are not relying on the exclusion from the definition of investment company set forth in Section 3(c)(1) of Section 3(c)(7) of the 1940 Act.. Because we are a holding company that will conduct its businesses primarily through wholly-owned subsidiaries and majority-owned subsidiaries, the securities issued by these subsidiaries that are excepted from the definition of \"investment company\" under Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) of the 1940 Act, together with any other investment securities we may own, may not have a combined value in excess of 40% of the value of our adjusted total assets on an unconsolidated basis. This requirement limits the types of businesses in which we may engage through our subsidiaries. In addition, the assets we and our subsidiaries may acquire are limited by the provisions of the 1940 Act, the rules and regulations promulgated under the 1940 Act and SEC staff interpretative guidance, which may adversely affect our performance.. If the value of securities issued by our subsidiaries that are excepted from the definition of \"investment company\" by Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the 1940 Act, together with any other investment securities we own, exceeds 40% of our adjusted total assets on an unconsolidated basis, or if one or more of such subsidiaries fail to maintain an exception or exemption from the 1940 Act, we could, among other things, be required either (a) to substantially change the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being required to register as an investment company or (b) to register as an investment company under the 1940 Act, either of which could have an adverse effect on us and the market price of our securities. If we were required to register as an investment company under the 1940 Act, we would become subject to substantial regulation with respect to our capital structure (including our ability to use leverage), management, operations, transactions with affiliated persons (as defined in the 1940 Act), portfolio composition, including restrictions with respect to diversification and industry concentration, and other matters.. Certain of our subsidiaries rely on the exemption from registration provided by Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the 1940 Act.  Section 3(c)(5)(C) as interpreted by the staff of the SEC, requires us to invest at least 55% of our assets in \"mortgages and other liens on and interest in real estate\" (or Qualifying Real Estate Assets) and at least 80% of our assets in Qualifying Real Estate Assets plus real estate related assets.  The assets that we acquire, therefore, are limited by the provisions of the 1940 Act and the rules and regulations promulgated under the 1940 Act.  On August 31, 2011, the SEC issued a concept release titled \"Companies Engaged in the Business of Acquiring Mortgages and Mortgage-Related Instruments\" (SEC Release No. IC-29778).  Under the concept release, the SEC is reviewing interpretive issues related to the Section 3(c)(5)(C) exemption.   The potential outcomes of the SEC's actions are unclear as is the SEC's timetable for its review and actions.  If the SEC determines that any of our securities are not Qualifying Real Estate Assets or real estate related assets or otherwise believes we do not satisfy the exemption under Section 3(c)(5)(C), we could be required to restructure our activities or sell certain of our assets. The net effect of these factors will be to lower our net interest income.  If we fail to qualify for exemption from registration as an investment company, our ability to use leverage would be substantially reduced, and we would not be able to conduct our business as described.  Our business will be materially and adversely affected if we fail to qualify for this exemption.. Certain of our subsidiaries may rely on the exemption provided by Section 3(c)(6) which excludes from the definition of \"investment company\" any company primarily engaged, directly or through majority-owned subsidiaries, in a business, among others, described in Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the 1940 Act (from which not less than 25% of such company's gross income during its last fiscal year was derived) together with an additional business or additional businesses other than investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities. The SEC staff has issued little interpretive guidance with respect to Section 3(c)(6) and any guidance published by the staff could require us to adjust our strategy accordingly.. Certain of our subsidiaries may rely on Section 3(c)(7) for their 1940 Act exemption and, therefore our interest in each of these subsidiaries would constitute an \"investment security\" for purposes of determining whether we pass the 40% test.. We may in the future, however, organize one or more subsidiaries that seek to rely on the 1940 Act exemption provided to certain structured financing vehicles by Rule 3a-7. In general, Rule 3a-7 exempts from the 1940 Act issuers that limit their activities as follows:.  the issuer issues securities the payment of which depends primarily on the cash flow from \"eligible assets\" that by their terms convert into cash within a finite time period;.  the securities sold are fixed income securities rated investment grade by at least one rating agency (fixed income securities that are unrated or rated below investment grade may be sold to institutional accredited investors and any securities may be sold to \"qualified institutional buyers\" and to persons involved in the organization or operation of the issuer);. 28.  the issuer acquires and disposes of eligible assets (1) only in accordance with the agreements pursuant to which the securities are issued, (2) so that the acquisition or disposition does not result in a downgrading of the issuer's fixed income securities and (3) so that the acquisition or disposition is not made for the primary purpose of recognizing gains or decreasing losses resulting from market value changes; and.  unless the issuer is issuing only commercial paper, the issuer appoints an independent trustee, takes reasonable steps to transfer to the trustee an ownership or perfected security interest in the eligible assets, and meets rating agency requirements for commingling of cash flows.. Any subsidiary also would need to be structured to comply with any guidance that may be issued by the Division of Investment Management of the SEC on how the subsidiary must be organized to comply with the restrictions contained in Rule 3a-7. Compliance with Rule 3a-7 may require that the indenture governing the subsidiary include additional limitations on the types of assets the subsidiary may sell or acquire out of the proceeds of assets that mature, are refinanced or otherwise sold, on the period of time during which such transactions may occur, and on the amount of transactions that may occur. In light of the requirements of Rule 3a-7, our ability to manage assets held in a special purpose subsidiary that complies with Rule 3a-7 will be limited and we may not be able to purchase or sell assets owned by that subsidiary when we would otherwise desire to do so, which could lead to losses. We currently limit the aggregate value of our interests in our subsidiaries that may in the future seek to rely on Rule 3a-7 to 20% or less of our total assets on an unconsolidated basis, as we continue to discuss with the SEC staff the use of subsidiaries that rely on Rule 3a-7 to finance our operations.. The determination of whether an entity is a majority-owned subsidiary of our company is made by us. The 1940 Act defines a majority-owned subsidiary of a person as a company of which 50% or more of the outstanding voting securities are owned by such person, or by another company which is a majority-owned subsidiary of such person. The 1940 Act further defines voting securities as any security presently entitling the owner or holder thereof to vote for the election of directors of a company. We treat companies in which we own at least a majority of the outstanding voting securities as majority-owned subsidiaries for purposes of the 40% test. We have not requested the SEC to approve our treatment of any company as a majority-owned subsidiary and the SEC has not done so. If the SEC were to disagree with our treatment of one or more companies as majority-owned subsidiaries, we would need to adjust our strategy and our assets in order to continue to pass the 40% test. Any such adjustment in our strategy could have a material adverse effect on us.. There can be no assurance that the laws and regulations governing the 1940 Act status of REITs, including the Division of Investment Management of the SEC providing more specific or different guidance regarding these exemptions, will not change in a manner that adversely affects our operations. If we or our subsidiaries fail to maintain an exception or exemption from the 1940 Act, we could, among other things, be required either to (a) change the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being required to register as an investment company, (b) effect sales of our assets in a manner that, or at a time when, we would not otherwise choose to do so, or (c) register as an investment company, any of which could negatively affect the value of our capital stock, the sustainability of our business model, and our ability to make distributions which could have an adverse effect on our business and the market price for our shares of capital stock.. Rapid changes in the values of our MBS, residential mortgage loans, and other real estate-related investments may make it more difficult for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT or our exemption from the 1940 Act.. If the market value or income potential of our MBS, residential mortgage loans, and other real estate-related investments declines as a result of increased interest rates, prepayment rates or other factors, we may need to increase our real estate investments and income or liquidate our non-qualifying assets to maintain our REIT qualification or our exemption from the 1940 Act. If the decline in real estate asset values or income occurs quickly, this may be especially difficult to accomplish. This difficulty may be exacerbated by the illiquid nature of any non-real estate assets we may own. We may have to make investment decisions that we otherwise would not make absent the REIT and 1940 Act considerations.. Regulatory and Legal Risks. Violations of federal, state and local laws, including violations of predatory lending and other laws, by the originator, the servicer, or us may result in rescission of the loans or penalties that may adversely impact our operations, financial condition and business prospects.. Violations of certain provisions of federal, state and local laws by the originator, the servicer or us, as well as actions by governmental agencies, authorities and attorneys general, may limit our or the servicer's ability to collect all or part of the principal of, or interest on, the residential mortgage loans we purchase and hold, and loans that serve as security for the RMBS we purchase and hold.  Violations could also subject the entity that made or modified the loans to damages and administrative enforcement (including disgorgement of prior interest and fees paid).  In particular, a loan seller's failure to comply with certain. 29. requirements of federal and state laws could subject the seller (and other assignees of the mortgage loans) to monetary penalties and result in the borrower rescinding the mortgage loans against the seller and any subsequent holders of the mortgage loans, even if the assignee was not responsible for and was unaware of those violations.  These adverse consequences vary depending on the applicable law and may vary depending on the type or severity of the violation, but they typically include:.  the ability of the homeowner to rescind, or cancel, the loan;.  the inability of the holder of the loan to collect some or all of the principal and interest otherwise due on the loan;.  the right of the homeowner to collect a refund of amounts previously paid (which may include amounts financed by the loan), or to set off those amounts against his or her future loan obligations; and.  the liability of the servicer and/or the owner of the loan for actual damages, statutory and/or punitive damages, civil or criminal penalties, costs and attorneys' fees.. The terms of the documents under which we intend to purchase loans, and the terms of the documents used to create the RMBS we intend to purchase, may entitle the holders of the loans and the special purpose vehicles that hold loans in RMBS to contractual indemnification against these liabilities.  For example, the sellers of loans placed in a securitization typically represent that each mortgage loan was made in compliance with applicable federal and state laws and regulations at the time it was made.  If there is a material breach of that representation, the seller may be contractually obligated to cure the breach or repurchase or replace the affected mortgage loan.  If the seller is unable or otherwise fails to satisfy these obligations, the yield on the loans and RMBS might be materially and adversely affected.  Due to the deterioration in the housing and commercial property markets, many of the sellers that issued these indemnifications are no longer in business or are unable to financially respond to their indemnification obligations.  Consequently, holders of interests in the loans and RMBS may ultimately have to absorb the losses arising from the sellers' violations.  While we attempt to take these factors into account in the prices we pay for loans and RMBS, we can offer no assurances concerning the validity of the assumptions we use in our pricing decisions.. Furthermore, the volume of new and modified laws and regulations at both the federal and state levels have increased in recent years. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act, which was signed into law in 2010, established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (\"CFPB\"), which administers a variety of federal consumer financial laws and has broad authority to prohibit covered persons and their service providers from engaging in unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices (\"UDAAP\").  Furthermore, Title XIV of the Dodd-Frank Act (known as the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act), imposed new consumer financial protection mandates and has led to the promulgation of numerous rules by the CFPB that address a variety of topics related to the origination and servicing of mortgage loans, including, but not limited to,  loan originator compensation, ability-to-repay and qualified mortgage standards, mortgage origination disclosures, appraisals, escrow accounts, mortgage servicing practices, high-cost mortgages, and appraisals.  For additional discussion regarding the potential impact of the regulatory environment see \"Financial regulatory reforms and additional proposed regulations could have a significant impact on the securitization transactions or on the value of the mortgage-backed securities.\"  For example, the federal Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act of 1994, commonly known as HOEPA, prohibits inclusion of certain provisions in residential mortgage loans that have annual percentage rates, points and fees, or prepayment penalties in excess of prescribed levels and requires that borrowers be given certain disclosures before origination.  The Dodd-Frank Act amended HOEPA to enhance its protections by expanding the types of loans covered by HOEPA, lowering the interest rate and points and fees thresholds so that more loans are considered HOEPA loans, imposing a new threshold for prepayment penalties, and imposing additional restrictions on HOEPA loans.. Accordingly, there is an increased risk that we or the originator or servicer of loans we purchase or that are held in RMBS we purchase may be involved in litigation over violations or alleged violations of recently enacted and proposed laws and regulations.  It is possible that these laws and regulations might result in additional significant costs and liabilities, which could further adversely affect the results of our operations.  In addition, failure of residential mortgage loan originators or servicers to comply with these laws and regulations, to the extent any of their residential mortgage loans become part of our mortgage-related assets, could subject us, as an assignee or purchaser of the related residential mortgage loans or RMBS, to monetary penalties and could result in the borrowers rescinding the affected residential mortgage loans.  Any litigation or penalty would increase our expenses and reduce funds available for distribution to our stockholders.. Some local municipalities also have enacted laws that impose potentially significant penalties on loan servicing activities related to abandoned properties or real estate owned properties.. Any of these preceding examples could result in delays and/or reductions in receipts of amounts due on the loans we intend to purchase, negatively affecting our income and operating results.. There is the potential for limitations on our ability to finance purchases of loans and RMBS, and for losses on the loans and RMBS we purchase, as a result of violations of law by the originating lenders.. 30. In June 2003, a California jury found a warehouse lender and securitization underwriter liable in part for fraud on consumers committed by a lender to whom it provided financing and underwriting services.  The jury found that the investment bank was aware of the fraud and substantially assisted the lender in perpetrating the fraud by providing financing and underwriting services that allowed the lender to continue to operate, and held it liable for 10% of the plaintiff's damages.  This instance of liability is the first case we know of in which an investment bank was held partly responsible for violations committed by a mortgage lender customer.  Shortly after the announcement of the jury verdict in the California case, the Florida Attorney General filed suit against the same financial institution, seeking an injunction to prevent it from financing mortgage loans within Florida, as well as damages and civil penalties, based on theories of unfair and deceptive trade practices and fraud.  The suit claimed that this financial institution aided and abetted the same lender involved in the California case in its commission of fraudulent representations in Florida.. In December of 2008, the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court upheld a lower court's order entered against a lender that enjoined the lender from foreclosing, without court approval, on certain mortgage loans secured by the borrower's principal dwelling that the court considered \"presumptively unfair.\". In May of 2009, another securitizer of residential mortgage loans entered into a settlement agreement with the Commonwealth of Massachusetts stemming from its investigation of subprime lending and securitization markets.  The securitizer agreed to provide loan restructuring (including significant principal write-downs) valued at approximately $50 million to Massachusetts subprime borrowers and to make a $10 million payment to the Commonwealth.. The Dodd Frank Act includes new authority, mentioned above, to take any actions against covered persons or service providers found to have committed or to have been engaging in UDAAPs in connection with mortgage loans and other transactions, and that authority extends to any person that knowingly or recklessly provides substantial assistance to those persons or providers.. If other courts or regulators take similar actions, investment banks and investors in residential and commercial mortgage loans and RMBS like us might face increased litigation as they are named as defendants in lawsuits and regulatory actions against the mortgage companies or securitizers with which they do business, or they might be prohibited from foreclosing on loans they purchased.  Some investment banks may charge more for warehouse lending and reduce the prices they pay for loans to build in the costs of this potential litigation or exit the business entirely, thereby increasing our cost of borrowing.  Any such actions by courts and regulators, and any such increases in our costs of borrowing, could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and business prospects.. We are required to obtain various state licenses in order to purchase mortgage loans in the secondary market and there is no assurance we will be able to obtain or maintain those licenses.. While we are not required to obtain licenses to purchase mortgage-backed securities, the purchase of residential mortgage loans in the secondary market may, in some circumstances, require us to maintain various state licenses. Acquiring the right to service residential mortgage loans may also, in some circumstances, require us to maintain various state licenses even though we currently do not expect to directly engage in loan servicing ourselves. As a result, we could be delayed in conducting certain business if we were first required to obtain a state license. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain all of the licenses we need or that we would not experience significant delays in obtaining these licenses. Furthermore, once licenses are issued, we are required to comply with various information reporting and other regulatory requirements to maintain those licenses, and there is no assurance that we will be able to satisfy those requirements or other regulatory requirements applicable to our business of acquiring residential mortgage loans on an ongoing basis. Our failure to obtain or maintain required licenses or our failure to comply with regulatory requirements that are applicable to our business of acquiring residential mortgage loans may restrict our business and investment options and could harm our business and expose us to penalties or other claims.. Federal and state agencies have taken enforcement actions and enacted regulations and government programs that require government sponsored enterprises (such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac), insured depository institutions, and state regulated loan servicers to engage in loss mitigation activities relating to residential mortgage loans.. Federal and state agencies have taken enforcement actions and enacted regulations that require GSEs (such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac), insured depository institutions, and state regulated loan servicers to engage in loss mitigation activities relating to residential mortgage loans.  Other agencies have published policies that strongly recommend these entities to engage in loss mitigation activities.  These loss mitigation activities may include, for example, loan modifications that significantly reduce interest and payments, deferrals of payments, and reductions of principal balances.  Such modifications may adversely affect our business and financial condition.. 31. Litigation alleging inability to foreclose may limit our ability to recover on some of the loans we purchase or that are held in RMBS.. In October 2007, a judge in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio dismissed 14 cases in which plaintiffs sought to foreclose mortgages held in securitization trusts by ruling that those plaintiffs lacked standing to sue.  In each case, the judge found that the plaintiff was not the owner of the note and mortgage on the date the foreclosure complaint was filed in court.  Similar actions have been initiated in other states.  These actions arise as a result of the common practice in the mortgage industry of mortgage loan sellers providing the loan purchasers unrecorded assignments of the mortgage in blank (i.e., the assignments do not name the assignee).  Some courts have held that before a note holder may initiate a foreclosure, the note holder must show proof to the court that the mortgage itself has been properly assigned to the purchaser each time the mortgage loan has been sold.  It is sometimes difficult to obtain and then record originals of each successive assignment.  It is still unclear whether higher courts will uphold the requirements imposed by these lower courts.. While many purchasers have strengthened their assignment and recordation processes since that time, investors in mortgage loans remain at risk of being unable to foreclose on defaulted loans, or at a minimum will be subject to delays until all assignments in the chain of the loan's title are properly recorded.  Thus, we may not be able to recover on some of the loans we purchase or that are held in the RMBS we purchase, or we may suffer delays in foreclosure, all of which could result in a lower return on our loans and RMBS.. Some legislatures are also instituting stringent proof of ownership requirements that a servicer must satisfy before commencing a foreclosure action. By way of example, in January 2011 the New York State Assembly amended state law to require that any foreclosure complaint contain an affirmative allegation that the plaintiff is the owner and holder of the note and mortgage at issue or has been delegated the authority to institute the foreclosure action by the owner and holder of the subject mortgage and note.  Again, laws of this type may limit our ability to recover on some of the loans we purchase or that are held in the RMBS we purchase, and may result in delays in the foreclosure process, all of which could result in a lower return on our loans and RMBS.. More recently, the Court of Special Appeals of Maryland, the intermediate appellate court in that state, recently held that a party who authorizes a foreclosure trustee to initiate a foreclosure action on a deed of trust that was in default at the time it was acquired must be licensed as a collection agency in the state under the Maryland Collection Agency Licensing Act (the \"MCALA\") before filing the foreclosure lawsuit, and that this licensing requirement applies to trusts formed outside of Maryland.  As a result, a foreclosure action initiated in Maryland by a non-licensed collection agency could be held to be invalid.  While there is additional case law pending in the State of Maryland that could materially impact or reverse this decision, the inability to realize on defaulted residential mortgage loans through foreclosure may result in a lower return on our loans and RMBS.. Legislative action to provide mortgage relief and foreclosure moratoriums may negatively impact our business.. As delinquencies and defaults in residential mortgages have recently increased, there has been an increasing amount of legislative action that might restrict our ability to foreclose and resell the property of a customer in default.  For example, some recently enacted state laws may require the lender to deliver a notice of intent to foreclose, provide borrowers additional time to cure or reinstate their loans, impose mandatory settlement conference and mediation requirements, require lenders to offer loan modifications, and prohibit initiation of foreclosure until the borrower has been provided time to consult with foreclosure counselors.. Alternatively, new federal legislation and some state and local programs provide a subsidy to a customer to permit the customer to continue to make payments during a period of hardship.  In the case of a subsidy, it is possible that we might be required to forego a portion of the amount otherwise due on the loan for a temporary period.. Finally, the laws of some states require foreclosing lenders to give special notices to tenants in properties on which the lenders are foreclosing on, or to permit the tenants to remain in the property for a period of time following the foreclosure.. These laws delay the initiation or completion of foreclosure proceedings on specified types of residential mortgage loans, or otherwise limit the ability of residential loan servicers to take actions that may be essential to preserve the value of the mortgage loans on behalf of the holders of RMBS.   Any such limitations are likely to cause delayed or reduced collections from mortgagors and generally increased servicing costs.  Any restriction on our ability to foreclose on a loan, any requirement that we forego a portion of the amount otherwise due on a loan or any requirement that we modify any original loan terms is likely to negatively impact our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.. 32. Financial regulatory reforms and additional proposed regulations could have a significant impact on the securitization transactions or on the value of the mortgage-backed securities.. In response to the financial crisis, Congress passed the Dodd-Frank Act in 2010.  The Dodd-Frank Act requires the creation of new federal regulatory agencies, and grants additional authorities and responsibilities to existing regulatory agencies to identify and address emerging systemic risks posed by the activities of financial services firms.  The Dodd-Frank Act also provides for enhanced regulation of derivatives and mortgage-backed securities offerings, restrictions on executive compensation and enhanced oversight of credit rating agencies.  Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act established the CFPB, an independent bureau housed within the Federal Reserve System that has broad rulemaking, supervision, and enforcement authority to regulate consumer financial services and products.  The Dodd-Frank Act also limits the ability of federal laws to preempt state and local consumer laws.. The impact of the Dodd-Frank Act depends significantly upon the content and implementation of the rules and regulations issued pursuant to its mandate.  No assurance can be given that the new regulations will not have an adverse impact on mortgage-backed securities market and residential mortgage lending generally or the value of the mortgage-backed securities.  In particular, because certain rules relating to asset-backed securities that have been promulgated in final form are not applicable to certain mortgage-backed securities, such mortgage-backed securities may be less marketable than those that are offered in compliance with the final rules.. In addition, pursuant to the U.S. Risk Retention Rules that became effective on December 24, 2015, the sponsor of an asset-backed securities securitization transaction is required to retain, directly or indirectly through majority-owned affiliates of the sponsor, at least 5% of the fair value of the securities issued in such transaction.  At this time, it is unclear what effect a failure of the sponsor to be in compliance with the U.S. Risk Retention Rules at any time will have on the market value or liquidity of the related securities.  In addition, the sponsor may elect to retain an eligible horizontal residual interest to satisfy the U.S. Risk Retention Rules.  Because of the relative novelty of retention in such a form, the satisfaction of the U.S. Risk Retention Rules is not guaranteed.. Additionally, as part of the implementation of Basel III, the federal banking agencies recently adopted revisions to the general risk-based capital and leverage guidelines applicable to U.S. banking organizations.  The changes to these guidelines generally cause exposures to RMBS held by U.S. banking organizations to be subject to risk weights that are higher and, for more subordinated classes of notes, substantially higher, or otherwise may adversely affect the treatment of RMBS for regulatory capital purposes.  This and other changes adopted, including the adoption of final rules regarding the liquidity coverage ratio, may limit the ability or willingness of banks to purchase RMBS, which in turn may adversely affect the liquidity of RMBS in the secondary market.. On August 27, 2014, the SEC issued final rules that substantially revise Regulation AB and other rules regarding the offering process, disclosure and reporting for publicly offered asset-backed securities (the \"Enhanced Disclosure Rules\").  Among other things, the final rules require (i) enhanced disclosure of loan level information at the time of securitization and on an ongoing basis for residential mortgage-backed securities publicly offered after the applicable transition period, and (ii) that the transaction agreements provide for an independent review of the underlying assets if certain trigger events occur, as well as specified repurchase dispute resolution procedures, for residential mortgage-backed securities publicly offered after the applicable transition period under a shelf registration.  Other than the enhanced loan-level disclosure requirements, the Enhanced Disclosure Rules have become effective.  In addition, the SEC has not yet acted on certain rules initially proposed in April 2010 and re-proposed in July 2011 that would make the Enhanced Disclosure Rules applicable to private offerings issued in reliance on Rule 144A or Rule 506 of Regulation D at the request of the investor.. Statements made by the Trump Administration have suggested that the Trump Administration may take steps to change or repeal certain aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act and its associated rules and regulations. Also, the Financial CHOICE Act proposed by the House Financial Services Committee contains a number of provisions that would scale back or repeal certain aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act, including provisions that would (1) exempt banks from the more restrictive Dodd-Frank regulations if they hold the equivalent of 10% of their assets in capital; (2) repeal the authority of the Financial Stability Oversight Council to designate nonbanking institutions as \"systemically important financial institutions\"; (3) repeal the Volker Rule; and (4) reform the CFPB, including making it a bipartisan commission that is subject to congressional appropriations. The structure of the CFPB has also been the subject of litigation. In January 2018, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit held in an en banc decision that the CFPB's single-director \"removable only for cause\" structure is constitutional.  PHH Corporation, et al,. v. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, No. 15-1177 (D.C. Cir., January 31, 2018). PHH has 90 days to appeal the en banc decision to the Supreme Court. It remains uncertain whether any changes to the CFPB's structure may be adopted or required, whether any proposed legislation may be enacted, how such changes or legislations or the. 33. relevant court decisions may be interpreted and enforced, and how they may affect the mortgage-backed securities market in general, and specifically, our business, the assets held by us, or our financial conditions.. Furthermore, national regulators in European Economic Area (\"EEA\") member states impose penal risk weights on securitization investments in respect of which the retention requirement or the due diligence requirement has not been satisfied in any material respect by reason of the negligence or omission of the investing credit institution or investment firm or insurance or reinsurance undertaking.  If the retention requirement or the due diligence requirement are not satisfied in respect of a securitization investment held by a non-EEA subsidiary of an EEA credit institution or investment firm or insurance or reinsurance undertaking then an additional risk weight or other regulatory consequence may be applied to such securitization investment when taken into account on a consolidated basis at the level of the EEA credit institution or investment firm or insurance or reinsurance undertaking.. Governmental Actions May Limit the Ability of a Servicer to Foreclose. Certain governmental entities have considered various programs to assist homeowners in certain jurisdictions who are obligated on residential mortgage loans with outstanding balances in excess of the market value of the mortgaged properties, including possible authorization to acquire any such mortgage loans by voluntary purchase or eminent domain and to modify those mortgage loans to allow homeowners to continue to own and occupy their homes. There is little indication as to whether any particular governmental entity will take steps to acquire any mortgage loans under such programs, whether any mortgage loans sought to be purchased will be mortgage loans held in securitization trusts, what purchase price would be paid for any such mortgage loans, and whether any governmental entities may ultimately pass such legislation.. The existing \"right of redemption\" in certain states may limit the ability of a servicer to sell (or cause the sale of), or prevent the servicer from selling (or causing the sale of), a foreclosed property at what would otherwise be an appropriate time for sale. In some states, after sale pursuant to a deed of trust or foreclosure of a mortgage, the mortgagor and foreclosed junior lienors are given a statutory period in which to redeem the property from the foreclosure sale. In other states, including California, this right of redemption applies only to sales following judicial foreclosure, and not to sales pursuant to a non-judicial power of sale. In most states where the right of redemption is available, statutory redemption may occur upon payment of the foreclosure purchase price, accrued interest and taxes. In other states, redemption may be authorized if the prior mortgagor pays only a portion of the sums due. The effect of a statutory right of redemption is to diminish the ability of the lender to sell the foreclosed property. The exercise of a right of redemption would defeat the title of any purchaser from the lender subsequent to foreclosure or sale under a deed of trust. Consequently, the practical effect of the right of redemption is to force the lender to retain the property and pay the expenses of ownership until the redemption period has run.. In addition to the foregoing developments, the existing \"right of redemption\" in certain states may limit the ability of a servicer to sell (or cause the sale of), or prevent the servicer from selling (or causing the sale of), a foreclosed property at what would otherwise be an appropriate time for sale. In some states, after sale pursuant to a deed of trust or foreclosure of a mortgage, the mortgagor and foreclosed junior lienors are given a statutory period in which to redeem the property from the foreclosure sale. In other states, including California, this right of redemption applies only to sales following judicial foreclosure, and not to sales pursuant to a non-judicial power of sale. In most states where the right of redemption is available, statutory redemption may occur upon payment of the foreclosure purchase price, accrued interest and taxes. In other states, redemption may be authorized if the prior mortgagor pays only a portion of the sums due. The effect of a statutory right of redemption is to diminish the ability of the lender to sell the foreclosed property. The exercise of a right of redemption would defeat the title of any purchaser from the lender subsequent to foreclosure or sale under a deed of trust. Consequently, the practical effect of the right of redemption is to force the lender to retain the property and pay the expenses of ownership until the redemption period has run.. These and similar laws, regulations and rules are likely to result in delays in the foreclosure process and increased servicing costs and may result in delays in the payments to investors. We bear the risk that future regulatory and legal developments may result in situations where principal and interest received or advanced on the mortgage loans in which we invest, together with any liquidation proceeds received on liquidated mortgage loans, are insufficient to pay one or more classes of investments all principal and interest to which they are entitled. The effect on our investments will likely be more severe if these future legal and regulatory developments occur in one or more states in which there is a significant concentration of mortgaged properties.. Homeowner Association Super Priority Liens, Special Assessment Liens and Energy Efficiency Liens May Take Priority Over the Mortgage Liens. In some states, it is possible that the first lien of mortgage may be extinguished by super priority liens of homeowner associations, potentially resulting in a loss of the mortgage loan's outstanding principal balance. In at least twenty (20) states,. 34. Homeowner Association (\"HOA\") assessment liens can take priority over first lien mortgages under certain circumstances. The number of these so called \"super lien\" states has increased in the past few decades and may increase further. The laws of these \"super lien\" states that provide for HOA super liens vary in terms of: (i) the duration of the priority period (with many at six months and some with no limitations); (ii) the assessments secured by the HOA lien (charges can include not only unpaid HOA assessments, but also late charges, collection costs, attorney fees, foreclosure costs, fines, and interest); (iii) whether the HOA must give lenders with liens encumbering the mortgaged property notice of the homeowner's failure to pay the assessment; and (iv) the statute of limitations on HOA foreclosure rights.. If an HOA, or a purchaser of an HOA super lien, completes a foreclosure on an HOA super lien on a mortgaged property, the mortgage lien could be extinguished. In those instances, we could suffer a loss of the entire outstanding principal balance of the mortgage loan, plus interest. A servicer might be able to attempt to recover on an unsecured basis by suing the borrower personally for the balance, but recovery in these circumstances will be problematic if the borrower has no meaningful assets to recover against.. Mortgaged properties securing the mortgage loans in which we invest may be subject to the lien of special property taxes and/or special assessments. These liens may be superior to the liens securing the mortgage loans, irrespective of the date of the mortgage. In some instances, individual borrowers may be able to elect to enter into contracts with governmental agencies for Property Assessed Clean Energy (\"PACE\") or similar assessments that are intended to secure the payment of energy and water efficiency and distributed energy generation improvements that are permanently affixed to their properties, possibly without notice to or the consent of the mortgagee. These assessments may also have lien priority over the mortgages securing the mortgage loans. No assurance can be given that any mortgaged property so assessed will increase in value to the extent of the assessment lien. Additional indebtedness secured by the assessment lien would reduce the amount of the value of the mortgaged property available to satisfy the affected mortgage loan.. The increasing number of proposed federal, state and local laws may increase our risk of liability with respect to certain mortgage loans, may include judicial modification provisions and could increase our cost of doing business.. The United States Congress and various state and local legislatures are considering legislation, which, among other provisions, would permit limited assignee liability for certain violations in the mortgage loan and servicing origination process, and would allow judicial modification of loan principal in the event of personal bankruptcy.  We cannot predict whether or in what form Congress or the various state and local legislatures may enact legislation affecting our business.  For example, the California Homeowner Bill of Rights, which became effective on January 1, 2013, imposes obligations and potential liabilities on investors, master servicers, servicers and subservicers, including anti-blight and tenant protection provisions.  We are evaluating the impact of these initiatives on our portfolio and results of operations.  As a result of these and other initiatives, we are unable to predict whether federal, state or local authorities will require changes in our practices in the future or in our portfolio.  These changes, if required, could adversely affect our profitability, particularly if we make such changes in response to new or amended laws, regulations or ordinances in any state where we acquire a significant portion of our mortgage loans, or if such changes result in us being held responsible for any violations in the mortgage loan origination process, or if the principal amount of loans we own or are in RMBS pools we own are modified in the personal bankruptcy process.. Risks Related To Our Capital Stock. The market price and trading volume of our shares of capital stock may be volatile.. The market price of shares of our capital stock, including our common and preferred stock, may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations.  In addition, the trading volume in our shares of capital stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. We cannot assure you that the market price of our shares of capital stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our shares of common and preferred stock include those set forth under \"Risk Factors\" and \"Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements\" and in the information incorporated and deemed to be incorporated by reference herein, as well as:.  actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or business prospects;.  changes in our earnings estimates or publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry;.  an inability to meet or exceed securities analysts' estimates or expectations;.  increases in market interest rates;.  hedging or arbitrage trading activity in our shares of common stock;.  capital commitments;.  changes in market valuations of similar companies;. 35.  changes in valuations of our assets;.  adverse market reaction to any increased indebtedness we incur in the future;.  additions or departures of management personnel;.  actions by institutional shareholders, including large block sales at a discount;.  speculation in the press or investment community;.  yields on our capital stock as compared to yields on other financial instruments;.  changes in our distribution policy;.  regulatory changes affecting our industry generally or our business;.  general market and economic conditions; and.  future sales of our shares of common and preferred stock or securities convertible into, or exchangeable or exercisable for, our shares of common and preferred stock.. Capital stock eligible for future sale may have adverse consequences for investors and adverse effects on our share price.. We cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of capital stock, or the availability of shares for future sales, on the market price of the capital stock.  Sales of substantial amounts of capital stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for the common stock.  In addition, we are not required to offer any such shares to existing shareholders on a pre-emptive basis. Therefore, it may not be possible for existing shareholders to participate in such future share issues, which may dilute the existing shareholders' interests in us.. Future offerings of debt securities, which would rank senior to our capital stock upon liquidation, and future offerings of equity securities, which would dilute our existing stockholders and may be senior to our capital stock for the purposes of dividend and liquidating distributions, may adversely affect the market price of our capital stock.. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by making offerings of debt or additional offerings of equity securities, including commercial paper, senior or subordinated notes and series or classes of preferred stock or common stock. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock, if any, and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our capital stock, or both. Preferred stock could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments or both that could limit our ability to make a dividend distribution to the holders of our capital stock, including our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, holders of our capital stock bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our capital stock and diluting their stock holdings in us.. There is a risk that our stockholders may not receive distributions or that our common stock distributions may not grow over time.. Under Maryland law, no distributions on stock may be made if, after giving effect to the distribution, (i) the corporation would not be able to pay the indebtedness of the corporation as such indebtedness becomes due in the usual course of business or (ii) except in certain limited circumstances when distributions are made from net earnings, the corporation's total assets would be less than the sum of the corporation's total liabilities plus, unless the charter provides otherwise (which our charter does, with respect to the Series A and B Preferred Stock), the amount that would be needed, if the corporation were to be dissolved at the time of the distribution, to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution of stockholders whose preferential rights on dissolution are superior to those receiving the distribution.  Nevertheless, we intend to make distributions on our capital stock on a quarterly basis out of assets legally available to our stockholders in amounts, with respect to our preferred stock equal to the stated dividend thereon and with respect to our common stock such that all or substantially all of our REIT taxable income in each year is distributed. Our ability to pay distributions may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including the risk factors described herein.  All distributions will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our REIT status and other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant from time to time.. Among the factors that could adversely affect our results of operations and impair our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders are:.  our ability to make profitable investments;.  margin calls or other expenses that reduce our cash flow;.  defaults in our asset portfolio or decreases in the value of our portfolio;. 36.  the fact that anticipated operating expense levels may not prove accurate, as actual results may vary from estimates; and.  increased cost of financing.. A change in any one of these factors could affect our ability to make distributions. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient for us to make distributions on the Series A and B Preferred Stock and on our common stock or for us to make year-to-year increases in cash distributions on our common stock.. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may inhibit potential acquisition bids that stockholders may consider favorable, and the market price of our capital stock may be lower as a result.. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions that have an anti-takeover effect and inhibit a change in our Board of Directors. These provisions include the following:.  There are ownership limits and restrictions on transferability and ownership in our charter. To qualify as a REIT for each taxable year after 2007, not more than 50% of the value of our outstanding stock may be owned, directly or constructively, by five or fewer individuals during the second half of any calendar year. In addition, our shares must be beneficially owned by 100 or more persons during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months or during a proportionate part of a shorter taxable year for each taxable year after 2007. To assist us in satisfying these tests, our charter generally prohibits any person from beneficially or constructively owning more than 9.8% in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of any class or series of our outstanding capital stock. These restrictions may discourage a tender offer or other transactions or a change in the composition of our Board of Directors or control that might involve a premium price for our shares or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders and any shares issued or transferred in violation of such restrictions being automatically transferred to a trust for a charitable beneficiary, thereby resulting in a forfeiture of the additional shares..  Our charter permits our Board of Directors to issue stock with terms that may discourage a third party from acquiring us. Our charter permits our Board of Directors to amend the charter without stockholder approval to increase the total number of authorized shares of stock or the number of shares of any class or series and to issue common or preferred stock, having preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or other distributions, qualifications, or terms or conditions of redemption as determined by our board.  Thus, our board could authorize the issuance of stock with terms and conditions that could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction in which holders of some or a majority of our shares might receive a premium for their shares over the then-prevailing market price of our shares..  Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. Maryland law provides that ''control shares'' of a corporation acquired in a ''control share acquisition'' will have no voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes eligible to be cast on the matter under the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. ''Control shares'' means voting shares of stock that, if aggregated with all other shares of stock owned by the acquirer or in respect of which the acquirer is able to exercise or direct the exercise of voting power (except solely by a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquirer to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of the following ranges of voting power: one-tenth or more but less than one-third, one-third or more but less than a majority, or a majority or more of all voting power. A ''control share acquisition'' means the acquisition of control shares, subject to certain exceptions.. If voting rights or control shares acquired in a control share acquisition are not approved at a stockholders' meeting, or if the acquiring person does not deliver an acquiring person statement as required by the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act, then, subject to certain conditions and limitations, the issuer may redeem any or all of the control shares for fair value. If voting rights of such control shares are approved at a stockholders' meeting and the acquirer becomes entitled to vote a majority of the shares of stock entitled to vote, all other stockholders may exercise appraisal rights. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting acquisitions of our shares from the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. However, our Board of Directors may amend our bylaws in the future to repeal or modify this exemption, in which case any control shares of our company acquired in a control share acquisition will be subject to the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act..  Business Combinations. Under Maryland law, ''business combinations'' between a Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. These business combinations include a merger, consolidation, share exchange or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. An interested stockholder is defined as:.  any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation's shares; or.  an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period before the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting stock of the corporation.. 37. A person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if the Board of Directors approved in advance the transaction by which such person otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. However, in approving a transaction, the Board of Directors may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by the board.  After the five-year prohibition, any business combination between the Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by the Board of Directors of the corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of at least:.  80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation; and.  two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting stock of the corporation, other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested stockholder.. These super-majority vote requirements do not apply if the corporation's common stockholders receive a minimum price, as defined under Maryland law, for their shares in the form of cash or other consideration in the same form as previously paid by the interested stockholder for its shares.  The statute permits various exemptions from its provisions, including business combinations that are exempted by the Board of Directors before the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder.  Our Board of Directors has adopted a resolution which provides that any business combination between us and any other person is exempted from the provisions of the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act, provided that the business combination is first approved by the Board of Directors.  This resolution, however, may be altered or repealed in whole or in part at any time.  If this resolution is repealed, or the Board of Directors does not otherwise approve a business combination, this statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer..  Staggered board. Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes of directors. Directors of each class are chosen for three-year terms upon the expiration of their current terms, and each year one class of directors is elected by the stockholders. The staggered terms of our directors may reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an attempt at a change in control, even though a tender offer or change in control might be in the best interests of our stockholders..  Our charter and bylaws contain other possible anti-takeover provisions.  Our charter and bylaws contains other provisions that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us or the removal of existing directors and, as a result, could prevent our stockholders from being paid a premium for their common stock over the then-prevailing market price.. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited, which could limit stockholders' recourse in the event of actions not in their best interests.. Our charter limits the liability of our directors and officers to us and our stockholders for money damages, except for liability resulting from:.  actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or.  a final judgment based upon a finding of active and deliberate dishonesty by the director or officer that was material to the cause of action adjudicated for which Maryland law prohibits such exemption from liability.. In addition, our charter authorizes us to obligate our company to indemnify our present and former directors and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. Our bylaws require us to indemnify each present or former director or officer, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, in the defense of any proceeding to which he or she is made, or threatened to be made, a party because of his or her service to us. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our directors and officers.. Holders of our Series A or Series B Preferred Stock have limited voting rights.. The voting rights of holders of Series A and Series B Preferred Stock will be limited. Our common stock is the only class of our securities that currently carries full voting rights. Holders of Series A and Series B Preferred Stock may vote only (i) to elect, voting together as a single class, with holders of parity stock having similar voting rights, including holders of Series A and Series B Preferred Stock, two additional directors to our board of directors in the event that six full quarterly dividends (whether or not consecutive) payable on the Series A and Series B Preferred Stock are in arrears, (ii) on amendments to our charter, including the articles supplementary designating the Series B Preferred Stock, that materially and adversely affect the rights of the holders of Series B Preferred Stock or (iii) to authorize or create, or increase the authorized or issued amount of, additional classes or series of Senior Stock.. 38. Our Series A and Series B Preferred Stock ranks junior to our existing and future indebtedness and any senior stock we may issue in the future and may be diluted by the issuance of additional shares of preferred stock and by other transactions.. Our Series A and Series B Preferred Stock ranks junior to all of our existing and future indebtedness and any class or series of stock we may issue in the future that by its terms ranks senior to the Series A and Series B Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up (\"Senior Stock\"). and to other non-equity claims on us and our assets available to satisfy claims against us, including claims in bankruptcy, liquidation or similar proceedings. In the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or dissolution or the winding-up of our affairs, our assets will be available to pay obligations on the Series A and Series B Preferred Stock only after all of our indebtedness and other liabilities have been paid. In addition, the Series A and Series B Preferred Stock would effectively rank junior to all indebtedness and other liabilities of any existing or future subsidiaries. Such subsidiaries are or would be separate legal entities and have or will have no legal obligation to pay any amounts to us in respect of dividends due on the Series A and Series B Preferred Stock. If we are forced to liquidate our assets to pay our creditors, we may not have sufficient assets to pay amounts due on any or all of the Series A and Series B Preferred Stock then outstanding. We may in the future incur substantial amounts of debt and other obligations that will rank senior to the Series A and Series B Preferred Stock.  Other than limited conversion rights afforded to holders of Series A and Series B Preferred Stock that may become exercisable in connection with certain changes of control, none of the provisions relating to the Series A and Series B Preferred Stock contain any terms relating to or limiting our indebtedness or affording the holders of Series A and Series B Preferred Stock protection in the event of a highly leveraged or other transaction, including a merger or the sale, lease or conveyance of all or substantially all our assets, so long as the rights of the holders of Series A and Series B Preferred Stock are not materially and adversely affected.. We may not be able to pay dividends or other distributions on our Series A and Series B Preferred Stock.. Under Maryland law, no distributions on stock may be made if, after giving effect to the distribution, (i) the corporation would not be able to pay the indebtedness of the corporation as such indebtedness becomes due in the usual course of business or (ii) except in certain limited circumstances when distributions are made from net earnings, the corporation's total assets would be less than the sum of the corporation's total liabilities plus, unless the charter provides otherwise (which our charter does, with respect to the Series A and the Series B Preferred Stock), the amount that would be needed, if the corporation were to be dissolved at the time of the distribution, to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution of stockholders whose preferential rights on dissolution are superior to those receiving the distribution. There can be no guarantee that we will have sufficient cash to pay dividends on the Series A and the Series B Preferred Stock. Our ability to pay dividends may be impaired if any of the risks described in this prospectus supplement and the accompanying prospectus or incorporated by reference in this prospectus supplement and in the accompanying prospectus were to occur. In addition, payment of our dividends depends upon our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our REIT qualification and other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to make distributions on the Series A Preferred Stock, the Series B Preferred Stock and on our common stock, to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs.. If our common stock is delisted, the ability to transfer or sell shares of the Series A and Series B Preferred Stock may be limited and the market value of the Series A and Series B Preferred Stock will likely be materially adversely affected.. Other than in connection with a change of control event, the Series A and Series B Preferred Stock do not contain provisions that are intended to protect holders if our common stock is delisted from the NYSE. Since the Series A and Series B Preferred Stock have no stated maturity date, holders may be forced to hold shares of the Series A and Series B Preferred Stock and receive stated dividends on the Series A and Series B Preferred Stock when, as and if authorized by our board of directors and declared and paid by us with no assurance as to ever receiving the liquidation value thereof. In addition, if our common stock is delisted from the NYSE, it is likely that the Series A and Series B Preferred Stock will be delisted from the NYSE as well. Accordingly, if our common stock is delisted from the NYSE, the ability to transfer or sell shares of the Series A and Series B Preferred Stock may be limited and the market value of the Series A and Series B Preferred Stock will likely be materially adversely affected.. Certain foreign laws may make it more difficult for us to sell securities, or for individuals to hold such securities, in some jurisdictions.. In recent years, the European Commission has outlined certain initiatives that are intended to improve retail investor protection.  These initiatives include, among others, the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive (\"AIFMD\") and Packaged Retail Investment Products (\"PRIPs\").  These and other initiatives have increased compliance, disclosure and other obligations in some foreign jurisdictions, which could adversely impact our ability to expand our security-holder base in these markets.. 39. Further, these and other regulations may make it difficult, or impossible, for individuals to buy or hold our securities in certain foreign jurisdictions, which would severely limit an individual's ability to invest in our company.. Federal Income Tax Risks. Your investment has various federal income tax risks.. This summary of certain tax risks is limited to the federal tax risks addressed below. Additional risks or issues may exist that are not addressed in this Form 10-K and that could affect the federal tax treatment of us or our stockholders.  This is not intended to be used and cannot be used by any stockholder to avoid penalties that may be imposed on stockholders under the Code. We strongly urge you to seek advice based on your particular circumstances from an independent tax advisor concerning the effects of federal, state and local income tax law on an investment in common stock or preferred stock and on your individual tax situation.. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities.. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy various tests regarding the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. To meet these tests, we may be required to forego investments we might otherwise make. We may be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our investment performance.. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to liquidate otherwise attractive investments.. To qualify as a REIT, we generally must ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter at least 75% of the value of our total assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified REIT real estate assets, including certain mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities. The remainder of our investments in securities (other than government securities and qualifying real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than government securities, qualifying real estate assets, and stock in one or more TRSs) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 20% of the value of our total assets can be represented by securities of one or more TRSs.  If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of such calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT status and suffering adverse tax consequences. As a result, we may be required to liquidate from our portfolio otherwise attractive investments. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our stockholders.. Failure to qualify as a REIT would subject us to federal income tax, which would reduce the cash available for distribution to our stockholders.. We elected to be treated as a REIT for federal income tax purposes commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 2007 and expect to continue to operate so as to qualify as a REIT. However, the federal income tax laws governing REITs are extremely complex, and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing qualification as a REIT are limited. Qualifying as a REIT requires us to meet various tests regarding the nature of our assets and our income, the ownership of our outstanding stock, and the amount of our distributions on an ongoing basis. While we intend to operate so that we will qualify as a REIT, given the highly complex nature of the rules governing REITs, the ongoing importance of factual determinations, including the tax treatment of certain investments we may make, and the possibility of future changes in our circumstances, no assurance can be given that we will so qualify for any particular year. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any calendar year and we do not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, we would be required to pay federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate income tax rates (at a 35% rate through 2017 and a 21% rate in subsequent years). We might need to borrow money or sell assets to pay that tax. Our payment of income tax would decrease the amount of our income available for distribution to our stockholders. Furthermore, if we fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT and we do not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, we no longer would be required to distribute substantially all of our REIT taxable income to our stockholders. Unless our failure to qualify as a REIT were excused under federal tax laws, we would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost.. We may enter into re-securitization transactions, the tax treatment of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. 40. We have engaged in and intend to engage in future re-securitization transactions in which we transfer Non-Agency RMBS to a special purpose entity that has formed or will form a securitization vehicle that will issue multiple classes of securities secured by and payable from cash flows on the underlying Non-Agency RMBS. In the past, we have structured these transactions as REMICs. We have structured the REMIC securitization transactions as a sale by a TRS of mortgage loans to an issuer (the \"Depositor\"), followed by a sale of the resulting REMIC securities through a placement agent retained by the Depositor to investors. In each such securitization, we have purchased all of the REMIC securities that were not purchased from the placement agent by unrelated third parties. Although such transactions are treated as sales for tax purposes, they have been undertaken by a TRS such that the prohibited transactions tax rules have not been implicated.. Potential characterization of distributions or gain on sale may be treated as unrelated business taxable income to tax-exempt investors.. If (1) all or a portion of our assets are subject to the rules relating to taxable mortgage pools, (2) we are a ''pension-held REIT,'' or (3) a tax-exempt stockholder has incurred debt to purchase or hold our capital stock, then a portion of the distributions to and, in the case of a stockholder described in clause (3), gains realized on the sale of capital stock by such tax-exempt stockholder may be subject to federal income tax as unrelated business taxable income under the Code.. Classification of a securitization or financing arrangement we enter into as a taxable mortgage pool could subject us or certain of our stockholders to increased taxation.. We intend to structure our securitization and financing arrangements so as to not create a taxable mortgage pool. However, if we have borrowings with two or more maturities and, (1) those borrowings are secured by mortgages or mortgage-backed securities and (2) the payments made on the borrowings are related to the payments received on the underlying assets, then the borrowings and the pool of mortgages or mortgage-backed securities to which such borrowings relate may be classified as a taxable mortgage pool under the Code. If any part of our investments were to be treated as a taxable mortgage pool, then our REIT status would not be impaired, but a portion of the taxable income we recognize may, under regulations to be issued by the Treasury Department, be characterized as ''excess inclusion'' income and allocated among our stockholders to the extent of and generally in proportion to the distributions we make to each stockholder. Any excess inclusion income would:.  not be allowed to be offset by a stockholder's net operating losses;.  be subject to a tax as unrelated business income if a stockholder were a tax-exempt stockholder;.  be subject to the application of federal income tax withholding at the maximum rate (without reduction for any otherwise applicable income tax treaty) with respect to amounts allocable to foreign stockholders; and.  be taxable (at the highest corporate tax rate) to us, rather than to our stockholders, to the extent the excess inclusion income relates to stock held by disqualified organizations (generally, tax-exempt organizations not subject to tax on unrelated business income, including governmental organizations).. Failure to make required distributions would subject us to tax, which would reduce the cash available for distribution to our stockholders.. To qualify as a REIT, we must distribute to our stockholders each calendar year at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (excluding certain items of non-cash income in excess of a specified threshold), determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. To the extent that we satisfy the 90% distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed income. In addition, we will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which our distributions in any calendar year are less than the sum of:.  85% of our REIT ordinary income for that year;.  95% of our REIT capital gain net income for that year; and.  any undistributed taxable income from prior years.. We intend to distribute our REIT taxable income to our stockholders in a manner intended to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement and to avoid both corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax.  REIT taxable income only includes after-tax TRS net income to the extent such TRS distributes a dividend to the REIT.  Therefore, our REIT dividend distributions may or may not include after-tax net income from our TRS.. Our taxable income may substantially exceed our net income as determined by GAAP.  As an example, realized capital losses may be included in our GAAP net income, but may not be deductible in computing our taxable income. In addition, we may. 41. invest in assets that generate taxable income in excess of economic income or in advance of the corresponding cash flow from the assets. This may be more likely under the new rules regarding the timing of income on debt securities that apply beginning in 2018 (or, with respect to debt securities with original issue discount, 2019). To the extent that we generate such non-cash taxable income in a taxable year, we may incur corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax on that income if we do not distribute such income to stockholders in that year.  In that event, we may be required to use cash reserves, incur debt, or liquidate non-cash assets at rates or at times that we regard as unfavorable to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax in that year.  Moreover, our ability to distribute cash may be limited by available financing facilities.  Therefore, our dividend payment level may fluctuate significantly, and, under some circumstances, we may not pay dividends at all.. Ownership limitations may restrict change of control or business combination opportunities in which our stockholders might receive a premium for their shares.. In order for us to qualify as a REIT for each taxable year after 2007, no more than 50% in value of our outstanding capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals during the last half of any calendar year. ''Individuals'' for this purpose include natural persons, private foundations, some employee benefit plans and trusts, and some charitable trusts. To preserve our REIT qualification, our charter generally prohibits any person from directly or indirectly owning more than 9.8% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of any class or series of the outstanding shares of our capital stock. This ownership limitation could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction in which holders of our capital stock might receive a premium for their shares over the then prevailing market price or which holders might believe to be otherwise in their best interests.. Our ownership of and relationship with any TRS which we may form or acquire will be limited, and a failure to comply with the limits would jeopardize our REIT status and may result in the application of a 100% excise tax.. A REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more TRSs. A TRS may earn income that would not be qualifying income if earned directly by the parent REIT. Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a TRS. Overall, no more than 20% of the value of a REIT's assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs. A TRS will pay federal, state and local income tax at regular corporate rates on any taxable income that it earns. In addition, the TRS rules impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm's-length basis. Our TRS after-tax net income would be available for distribution to us but would not be required to be distributed to us. We anticipate that the aggregate value of the TRS stock and securities owned by us will be less than 20% of the value of our total assets (including the TRS stock and securities). Furthermore, we will monitor the value of our investments in our TRSs to ensure compliance with the rule that no more than 20% of the value of our assets may consist of TRS stock and securities (which is applied at the end of each calendar quarter). In addition, we will scrutinize all of our transactions with TRSs to ensure that they are entered into on arm's-length terms to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to comply with the 20% limitation discussed above or to avoid application of the 100% excise tax discussed above.. The tax on prohibited transactions will limit our ability to engage in transactions, including certain methods of securitizing mortgage loans that would be treated as sales for federal income tax purposes.. A REIT's net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, but including mortgage loans, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We might be subject to this tax if we sold or securitized our assets in a manner that was treated as a sale for federal income tax purposes. Therefore, to avoid the prohibited transactions tax, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of assets at the REIT level and may securitize assets only in transactions that are treated as financing transactions and not as sales for tax purposes even though such transactions may not be the optimal execution on a pre-tax basis.  We could avoid any prohibited transactions tax concerns by engaging in securitization transactions through a TRS, subject to certain limitations described above. To the extent that we engage in such activities through domestic TRSs, the income associated with such activities will be subject to federal (and applicable state and local) corporate income tax.. Characterization of the repurchase agreements we enter into to finance our investments as sales for tax purposes rather than as secured lending transactions would adversely affect our ability to qualify as a REIT.. We have entered into and will enter into repurchase agreements with a variety of counterparties to achieve our desired amount of leverage for the assets in which we invest. When we enter into a repurchase agreement, we generally sell assets to our counterparty to the agreement and receive cash from the counterparty. The counterparty is obligated to resell the assets back to us at the end of the term of the transaction, which is typically 30 to 90 days. We believe that for federal income tax purposes we. 42. will be treated as the owner of the assets that are the subject of repurchase agreements and that the repurchase agreements will be treated as secured lending transactions notwithstanding that such agreement may transfer record ownership of the assets to the counterparty during the term of the agreement. It is possible, however, that the IRS could successfully assert that we did not own these assets during the term of the repurchase agreements, in which case we could fail to qualify as a REIT.. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively.. The REIT provisions of the Code substantially limit our ability to hedge mortgage-backed securities and related borrowings. Under these provisions, our annual gross income from non-qualifying hedges, together with any other income not generated from qualifying real estate assets, cannot exceed 25% of our annual gross income. In addition, our aggregate gross income from non-qualifying hedges, fees, and certain other non-qualifying sources cannot exceed 5% of our annual gross income. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear.. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow.. Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, excise taxes, state or local income, property and transfer taxes, such as mortgage recording taxes, and other taxes. In addition, in order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, prevent the recognition of certain types of non-cash income, or to avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a REIT from dealer property or inventory, we may hold some of our assets through our TRSs or other subsidiary corporations that will be subject to corporate level income tax at regular rates. In certain circumstances the ability of our TRSs to deduct net interest expense may be limited. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders.. Dividends payable by REITs generally do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends.. The maximum U.S. federal income tax rate applicable to qualified dividend income payable to certain non-corporate U.S. holders is 20%. Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the reduced qualified dividend rates. For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2026, under the TCJA, non-corporate taxpayers may deduct up to 20% of certain pass-through business income, including \"qualified REIT dividends\" (generally, dividends received by a REIT shareholder that are not designated as capital gain dividends or qualified dividend income), subject to certain limitations, resulting in an effective maximum U.S. federal income tax rate of 29.6% on such income. Although the reduced U.S. federal income tax rate applicable to qualified dividend income does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends payable by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends and the reduced corporate tax rate (currently 21%) could cause certain non-corporate investors to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including our stock.. Our inability to deduct for tax purposes compensation paid to our executives could require us to increase our distributions to stockholders or pay entity level taxes in order to maintain REIT status.. Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, prohibits publicly held corporations from taking a tax deduction for annual compensation in excess of $1 million paid to any of the corporation's \"covered employees.\"  Prior to the enactment of the TCJA, a publicly held corporation's covered employees included its chief executive officer and three other most highly compensated executive officers (other than the chief financial officer), and certain \"performance-based compensation\" was excluded from the $1 million cap.  The TCJA made certain changes to Section 162(m), effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017.  These changes include, among others, expanding the definition of \"covered employee\" to include the chief financial officer and repealing the performance-based compensation exception to the $1 million cap, subject to a transition rule for remuneration provided pursuant to a written binding contract which was in effect on November 2, 2017, and which was not modified in any material respect on or after that date.  The TCJA also added that once an individual becomes a covered employee after December 31, 2016, that individual will remain a covered employee for all future years including after termination or death.. Since we qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code and we are generally not subject to federal income taxes, if compensation did not qualify for deduction under Section 162(m), the payment of compensation that fails to satisfy the requirements of Section 162(m) would not have a material adverse consequence to us, provided we continue to distribute 100% of our taxable income. In the future, if we make compensation payments subject to Section 162(m) limitations on deductibility, we may be required to make additional distributions to shareholders or pay entity level tax to comply with REIT requirements.. 43. Any such compensation allocated to our taxable REIT subsidiaries whose income is subject to federal income tax would result in an increase in income taxes due to the inability to deduct such compensation.. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our capital stock.. At any time, the federal income tax laws or regulations governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws or regulations may be amended. We cannot predict when or if any new federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective and any such law, regulation or interpretation may take effect retroactively. The TCJA significantly changes the U.S. federal income tax laws applicable to businesses and their owners, including REITs and their stockholders.  Technical corrections or other amendments to the TCJA or administrative guidance interpreting the TCJA may be forthcoming at any time.  We cannot predict the long-term effect of the TCJA or any future law changes on REITs and their stockholders. We and our stockholders could be adversely affected by any such change in, or any new, federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation."
