[1] "ITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, readers should carefully consider the following important factors. These factors, among others, in some cases have affected, and in the future could affect, our financial condition and results of operations and could cause our future results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements that appear in this on Form 10-K or that we have made or will make elsewhere.. The global economic uncertainty could further impair the automotive industry thereby limiting demand for our products.. The continuation or intensification of the recent global economic uncertainty arising from the European debt crisis and economic slowdown in Asia may adversely impact our business and the businesses of our customers. Our specialized plastics are sold to automobile parts manufacturers and distributors. The recent global economic uncertainty harmed most industries and has been detrimental to the automotive industry. Since virtually all of our sales are made to auto industry participants, our sales and business operations are dependent on the financial health of the automotive industry and could suffer if our customers experience, or continue to experience, a downturn in their business. Presently, it is unclear whether and to what extent the economic stimulus measures facilitated by the European Union and other governments throughout the world will mitigate the effects of the crisis on the automotive industry and other industries that affect our business.. We concentrate our operations primarily in the automotive industry; therefore, the fluctuations in automotive sales and production could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity.. We develop, manufacture, and distribute modified plastic, primarily for use in automobiles. Automotive sales and production are highly cyclical and depend, among other things, on general economic conditions and consumer spending and preferences (which can be affected by a number of issues including fuel costs and the availability of consumer financing). As the volume of automotive production fluctuates, the demand for our products also fluctuates. According to China Association of Automobile Manufacturers, for the year ended December 31, 2017,  the China automotive sales and production volume recorded a stable growth rate of 3.2% and 3.0%, respectively, lower than the growth rate of 11.3% and 10.6% in 2016. There can be no assurance that the market conditions, government policies and other factors leading to the increase in the growth rate will continue. Any contraction in automotive sales and production will harm our results of operations and financial condition. Consequently, we are exposed to the risks of adverse developments affecting the auto industry to a greater extent than if our operations were dispersed over a variety of industries.. Our financial performance may be affected by the prospect of our Dubai facility and the associated expansion into Middle East, Europe and other parts of Asia.. Since 2014, we developed the presence in the ROK by selling to our ROK customer primarily long carbon chain PA plastic alloy and high-performance modified PA66 products, which embarked our entry into the international market after approximately one year of product development and marketing effort. The Company has experienced a delay in cash collection from the ROK customer mainly due to the customer's tight funding.  As of December 31, 2017, the amount due from our ROK customer is approximately US$80.2 million. In the event the outstanding accounts receivable become uncollectable despite management's efforts, we will suffer financial losses and as a result, our plan to develop overseas market may be delayed.. 48. The withdrawal of preferential government policies and the tightening control over the Chinese automotive industry and automobile purchase restrictions imposed in certain major cities may limit market demand for our products.. In 2011, Chinese government terminated two preferential policies for its automotive industry: (1) vehicles with 1.6L or lower air displacement were given a 50% discount in purchase tax and (2) vehicles sold in rural area were given a government subsidy. Since 2011, in order to resolve the extreme traffic congestion, the Beijing government has been implementing the vehicle purchase quota policy, which limits the maximum vehicles sold in Beijing per month to 20,000. Other cities which have begun to show signs of traffic congestion have also begun to implement similar measures to control traffic congestion, including the limited automobile licenses policy implemented in Shanghai and Tianjin and the imposition of congestion charges in Shenzhen. The termination of two nation-wide preferential policies negatively affected consumer demand for new vehicles, and local restrictive measures over automobile purchases in major cities has resulted in slower growth of sales for many years prior to the reintroduction of the preferential policies in September 2015. The national and local policies over the Chinese automotive industry may continue to impact market demand for automobiles in 2018 and any future withdrawal of preferential government policies and the further tightening of control and restrictions may eventually result in a reduction in our product sales.. The Chinese automotive industry's growth is slowing after the rapid growth since 2000 and such slowdown may adversely affect the market demand for our products.. There is a direct correlation between our business and automobile production volume and sales, which are dependent on economic policies and market sentiment. The Chinese automotive industry had been rapidly growing for a decade prior to 2011. However, inflation, higher interest rates, tighter bank lending, lifting of consumer subsidies and buying restrictions in congested cities all contributed to a more modest environment since 2011.  In order to stimulate the growth of the auto industry, on September 29, 2015, the Chinese government implemented a tax incentive policy of 50% reduction of the sales tax for eligible purchase of vehicles with engines of 1.6 liters and less.  This helped the recovery of vehicle sales in China since the fourth quarter of 2015 and  automobile sales volume growth rate reached to 13.7% in 2016.  However,  the automobile sales in China had a lower growth rate of  3.0% in 2017, according to China Association of Automobile Manufacturers. There can be no assurance that the market conditions, government policies and other factors leading to the current growth in demand for automobiles will continue. Any significant decline in demand for automobiles would directly and adversely affect demand for our products and hence our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A large percentage of our sales revenue is derived from sales to a limited number of distributors and a limited number of customers, and our business will suffer if sales to these customers decline.. A significant portion of our sales revenue historically has been derived from a limited number of distributors in China. Sales to major distributors and direct customer, which individually exceeded 10% of the Company's revenues is approximately 40.2% and 52.1% in 2017 and 2016, respectively. Any significant reduction in demand for modified plastics by any of these major distributors, any decrease in demand of products by its customers or by our ROK customer could harm our sales and business operations, financial condition and results of operations.  During the second quarter of 2016, we resumed entry into ROK market by developing a customer. As of December 31, 2017, the amount due from our ROK customer is approximately US$80.2 million, among which balance of US$37.7 million was overdue  The overdue payment was due to the ROK customer's expansion and tight funding.  In the case of any such delay in payment from the ROK customer or our major distributors or they cease to be our customers or distributors in the future, our sales and business operations, financial conditions and results of operations may be negatively affected.. 49. We may not be able to manage our business expansion effectively, which could harm our business.. We have expanded rapidly by making substantial investments in new markets and geographic regions. For example, on March 17, 2017, we entered into a definitive agreement with People's Government of Shunqing District, Nanchong City of Sichuan Province for the production of 300,000 metric tons of bio-composite materials and additive manufacturing and 20,000 metric tons of functional masterbatch, a high-end color additive process in plastics manufacturing. On July 21, 2017, Heilongjiang Xinda Enterprise Group Company Limited (\"HLJ Xinda Group) entered into three investment agreements with the Management Committee of Harbin Economic- Technological Development Zone with respect to the industrial project for 300,000 metric tons of biological composite materials, the industrial project for upgrading existing equipment for 100,000 metric tons of engineering plastics and the industrial project for a 3D printing intelligent manufacture demonstration factory and a 3D printing display and experience cloud factory.  We anticipate continuous expansion in our business by entering into new markets serving different industries and geographic regions. Such business expansion requires significant local management resources and personnel, knowledges and expertise in new markets and geographies and building relationship with local suppliers and clients. In order to manage the planned business expansion, we will be required to expand, train and manage our growing employee base. Furthermore, our management will be required to learn new markets and geographies and build relationship with local suppliers and clients. We cannot assure you that our current resources, knowledges and business relationships will be adequate to support our current expansion plans. If we are not successful in expanding our personnel, acquiring knowledge and expertise in the new markets and geographies and building relationship with local suppliers and clients, our business may be materially and adversely affected.. We are dependent on a limited number of suppliers. While we have identified alternative sources for the materials and equipment we use, a temporary disruption in our ability to procure necessary materials and equipment could adversely impact our sales in future periods.. Materials constitute a substantial part of the cost of our products.  We seek to reduce the cost of raw materials by dealing with major suppliers. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we purchased approximately 54.3% of our raw materials from five major suppliers. The Company purchased equipment from two suppliers, which accounted for 96.0% of the Company's equipment purchases for the year ended December 31, 2017. We believe the relationship with our suppliers is satisfactory and that alternative suppliers are available if relationships falter or existing suppliers should become unable to keep up with our requirements. However, there can be no assurance that our current or future suppliers will be able to meet our requirements on commercially reasonable terms or within scheduled delivery times. An interruption of our arrangements with suppliers could cause a delay in the production of our products for timely delivery to distributors and customers, which could result in a loss of sales in future periods.. If we are subject to product quality or liability claims relating to our products, we may incur significant litigation expenses and management may have to devote significant time defending such claims, which if determined adversely to us, could require us to pay significant damage awards.. Although we have adopted certain internal measures to supervise and examine the quality of our products, we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to our product quality. Consistent with rapid growth and expansion in many businesses, there are risks associated with quality of newly developed products, especially during the initial stage and time and efforts needed to improve our technology and techniques in order to supply quality and batch consistency to our new customers, in particular, high-end products to overseas customers. The defense of these proceedings and claims could be both costly and time-consuming and significantly divert the efforts and resources of our management. An adverse determination in any such proceedings could subject us to significant liability. In addition, any such proceeding, even if ultimately determined in our favor, could damage our market reputation and prevent us from maintaining or increasing sales and market share. Protracted litigation could also result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase of our products.. 50. We have limited insurance coverage on our assets in China and any uninsured loss or damage to our property, business disruption or litigation may result in our incurring substantial costs and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and/or liquidity.. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited insurance products. Other than automobile insurance on certain vehicles and property and casualty insurance for some of our assets such as factories and equipment we do not have insurance coverage on our other assets or inventories, nor do we have any business interruption, product liability or litigation insurance for our operations in China. We have determined that the costs of insuring for these risks and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially reasonable terms make it impractical for us to have such insurance. Any uninsured loss or damage to property, business disruption or litigation may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of our resources, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and/or liquidity.. SAFE regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC individuals may increase our administrative burden and restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activity. If our shareholders and beneficial owners who are PRC individuals fail to make any required applications, registrations and filings under such regulations, we may be unable to distribute profits or become subject to liability under PRC laws, and our ability to compensate our staff through equity compensation may be hindered and business operation may be adversely affected.. The State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or \"SAFE\", has promulgated several regulations, including the Circular on Relevant Issues Relating to Domestic Resident's Investment and Financing and Roundtrip Investment through Special Purpose Vehicles, or SAFE Circular No. 37, in July 2014 that requires PRC residents or entities to register with SAFE or its local branch in connection with their establishment or control of an offshore entity established for the purpose of overseas investment or financing. In addition, such PRC residents or entities must update their SAFE registrations when the offshore special purpose vehicle undergoes material events relating to any change of basic information (including change of such PRC citizens or residents, name and operation term), increases or decreases in investment amount, transfers or exchanges of shares, or mergers or divisions.  SAFE Circular 37 is issued to replace the Notice on Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Administration for PRC Residents Engaging in Financing and Roundtrip Investments via Overseas Special Purpose Vehicles, or SAFE Circular No. 75.. We have requested our shareholders and beneficial owners who are PRC residents to make the necessary applications and filings as required under these regulations and under any implementation rules or approval practices that may be established under these regulations. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Mr. Han, our Chief Executive Officer, has registered his beneficial ownerships in China XD and XD Engineering Plastics Company Limited (\"XD Engineering Plastics\") respectively with local SAFE in accordance with Circular No. 37. However, we cannot assure you that the rest of our shareholders and beneficial owners who are PRC individuals have timely updated their registrations with SAFE in accordance with SAFE regulations. The failure or inability of our PRC shareholders and beneficial owners make any required registrations may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our PRC subsidiaries' ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, as a result of which our acquisition strategy and business operations and our ability to distribute profits to you could be materially and adversely affected.. On December 25, 2006, the People's Bank of China issued the Administration Measures of Foreign Exchange Matters for Individuals, which set forth the respective requirements for foreign exchange transactions by individuals (both PRC and non-PRC citizens) under the current account or the capital account, and the corresponding Implementing Rules were issued by SAFE on January 5, 2007, both of these regulations became effective on February 1, 2007. According to these regulations, all foreign exchange matters relating to employee stock holding plans, share option plans or similar plans of an overseas publicly-listed company in which PRC citizens will participate require approval from SAFE or its authorized branch.. 51. In February 2012, SAFE promulgated the Notice on Issues Concerning the Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Stock Incentive Plan of Overseas Publicly-Listed Company, or the New Stock Option Rules, which replaced and substituted the Application Procedure of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plan or Stock Option Plan of Overseas-Listed Company, or the Stock Option Rule. According to the New Stock Option Rules, if a PRC resident participates in any stock incentive plan of an overseas publicly-listed company, a qualified PRC domestic agent, which could be a PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly-listed company or another qualified institution selected by such PRC subsidiary, among other things, must file on behalf of such participant an application with SAFE to conduct the SAFE registration with respect to such stock incentive plan and obtain approval for an annual allowance with respect to the purchase of foreign exchange in connection with the exercise or sale of stock options or stock such participant holds. Such participants must also retain an overseas entrusted institution to handle matters in connection with their exercise of stock options, the purchase and sale of corresponding stocks or interests and fund transfers. In addition, the qualified PRC domestic agent is required to amend the SAFE registration with respect to the stock incentive plan if there is any material change to the stock incentive plan, the qualified PRC domestic agent or the overseas entrusted institution or other material changes. Such participant's foreign exchange income received from the sale of stock and dividends distributed by the overseas publicly-listed company must be fully remitted into a specific domestic foreign currency account opened and managed by such qualified PRC domestic agent first, before distribution to such participants.. We are an offshore listed company and, as a result, any Chinese employee or foreign employee of our PRC subsidiaries, who resides in PRC more than one year consecutively, including without limitation, directors, supervisors and other senior management staffs of our PRC subsidiaries, who have been granted share options or shares under our existing share incentive plan, are subject to the New Stock Option Rules.  We completed the application with local SAFE in Heilongjiang on December 16, 2013, obtaining a registration in respect of our incentive share plan in accordance with the New Stock Option Rules. If our PRC subsidiaries or their qualified employees fail to comply with these regulations, including the New Stock Option Rules, they may be subject to fines or other legal sanctions imposed by SAFE or other Chinese government authorities. In that case, our ability to compensate our employees, directors, supervisors and other senior management staffs through equity compensations may be hindered and our business operations may be adversely affected.. Under the PRC EIT Law, we and/or Favor Sea (BVI) may be classified as a \"resident enterprise\" of the PRC. Such classification could result in tax consequences to us, our non-PRC resident shareholders and Favor Sea (BVI).. On March 16, 2007, the National People's Congress approved and promulgated the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or \"EIT Law,\" which took effect on January 1, 2008. Under the EIT Law, enterprises are classified as resident enterprises and non-resident enterprises. An enterprise established outside of China with \"de facto management bodies\" within China is considered a \"resident enterprise,\" and subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate on global income. The implementing rules of the EIT Law define \"de facto management bodies\" as a managing body that in practice exercises \"substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties\" of the enterprise; however, due to the short history of the EIT Law and lack of applicable legal precedents, it remains unclear whether the PRC tax authorities would deem our managing body as being located within China, or whether we or our non-PRC subsidiaries would be deemed as resident enterprises of the PRC.. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we, Favor Sea Limited, a British Virgin Islands corporation (\"Favor Sea (BVI)\") and/or Xinda Holding (HK) Company Limited, a Hong Kong corporation (\"Xinda HK\"), are \"resident enterprises\" for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of PRC tax consequences could follow.  We, Favor Sea (BVI) and/or Xinda HK may be subject to enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our, Favor Sea (BVI)'s and/or Xinda HK's worldwide taxable income, as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. However, under the EIT Law and its implementing rules, dividends paid between \"qualified resident enterprises\" are exempt from enterprise income tax. As a result, if we, Favor Sea (BVI) and Xinda HK are treated as PRC \"qualified resident enterprises,\" all dividends paid from HLJ Xinda Group to Xinda HK, from Xinda HK to Favor Sea (BVI) and from Favor Sea (BVI) to us may be exempt from PRC tax. Otherwise, all dividends paid from HLJ Xinda Group to Xinda HK, from Xinda HK to Favor Sea (BVI) and from Favor Sea (BVI) to us may be subject to withholding tax under the EIT Law and its implementing rules.. 52. On April 22, 2009, State Administration of Taxation (\"SAT\") enacted \"Circular of the State Administration of Taxation on Issues Concerning the Identification of Chinese-Controlled Overseas Registered Enterprises as Resident Enterprises in Accordance With the Actual Standards of Organizational Management\". On July 27, 2011, SAT enacted \"Announcement of the State Administration of Taxation on Printing and Distributing the Administrative Measures for Income Tax on Chinese-controlled Resident Enterprises Incorporated Overseas (Trial Implementation)\". Under those two rules, either the enterprises may request the PRC tax authorities to determine their \"resident enterprises\" identity or the tax authority may investigate and determine an enterprise's identity. The target enterprises under those two rules are foreign registered companies controlled by the PRC companies, however, the PRC tax authority may determine if a foreign registered company controlled by the PRC individual(s) is a \"resident enterprise\" or not by reference to those two rules.. Under the EIT Law and its implementation rules, dividends payable by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to its shareholders that are \"non-resident enterprises\" are subject to a 10% withholding tax, unless such shareholders' jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a preferential arrangement. Pursuant to the Notice of the SAT on Issuing the Table of Tax Rates on Dividends in Treatises, or Notice 112, which was issued on January 29, 2008, the Arrangement between the PRC and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion, or the Double Taxation Arrangement (Hong Kong), which became effective on December 8, 2006, such withholding tax may be lowered to 5% if the PRC enterprise is at least 25% directly held by a Hong Kong enterprise. In October 2009, the SAT further issued the Notice on How to Understand and Determine the \"Beneficial Owners\" in Tax Treaties, or Circular 601. According to Circular 601, non-resident enterprises that cannot provide valid supporting documents as \"beneficial owners\" may not be approved to enjoy tax treaty benefits, and \"beneficial owners\" refer to individuals, companies or other organizations which are normally engaged in substantive operations. These rules also set forth certain adverse factors on the recognition of a \"beneficial owner.\" Specifically, they expressly exclude a \"conduit company\" that is usually established for the purposes of avoiding or reducing tax obligations or transferring or accumulating profits and not engaged in substantive operations such as manufacturing, sales or management, from being a \"beneficial owner.\" As a result, if we are treated as PRC \"non-resident enterprises\" under the EIT Law, then dividends from HLJ Xinda Group (assuming such dividends were considered sourced within the PRC) paid to us through Xinda HK may be subject to a reduced withholding tax at a rate of 5% if Xinda HK is determined to be Hong Kong tax residents and are considered to be \"beneficial owners\" that are generally engaged in substantive business activities and entitled to treaty benefits under the Double Taxation Arrangement (Hong Kong). Otherwise, we may not be able to enjoy the preferential withholding tax rate of 5% under the tax arrangement and therefore be subject to withholding tax at a rate of 10% with respect to dividends to be paid by HLJ Xinda Group (assuming such dividends were considered sourced within the PRC) to us through Xinda HK. Any such taxes on dividends could materially reduce the amount of dividends, if any, we could pay to our shareholders.. However, if we are deemed as a \"resident enterprise,\" the new \"resident enterprise\" classification could result in a situation in which an up to 10% PRC tax is imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders that are not PRC tax \"resident enterprises\". In such event, we may be required to withhold an up to 10% PRC tax on any dividends paid to non-PRC resident enterprise shareholders. Our non-PRC resident enterprise shareholders also may be responsible for paying PRC tax at a rate of 10% on any gain realized from the sale or transfer of our ordinary shares in certain circumstances if such income is considered PRC-sourced income by relevant tax authorities. We would not, however, have an obligation to withhold PRC tax with respect to such gain.. On December 15, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation (\"SAT\") released the Notice on Strengthening Administration of Enterprise Income Tax for Share Transfers by Non-PRC Resident Enterprises (\"Circular 698\") that reinforces the taxation of non-listed equity transfers by non-resident enterprises through overseas holding vehicles. Circular 698 is retroactively effective from January 1, 2008.  Subsequently SAT also released the Announcement on Several Issues Related to Enterprise Income Tax for Indirect Asset Transfer by Non-PRC Resident Enterprises (\"Announcement 7\"), effective from February 3, 2015, which in part supersedes Circular 698.. 53. Announcement 7 addresses indirect share transfer as well as other issues.  According to Announcement 7, if a non-PRC resident enterprise transfers the equity interests of or similar rights or interests in overseas companies which directly or indirectly own PRC taxable assets through an arrangement without a reasonable commercial purpose, but rather to avoid PRC corporate income tax, the transaction will be re-characterized and treated as a direct transfer of PRC taxable assets subject to PRC corporate income tax. Announcement 7 specifies certain factors that should be considered in determining whether an indirect transfer has a reasonable commercial purpose. Since Announcement 7 has a short history, there is uncertainty as to its application and in particular, the interpretation of the term \"reasonable commercial purpose.\". Announcement 7 further provides that, the entity which has the obligation to pay the consideration for the transfer to the transferring shareholders has the obligation to withhold any PRC corporate income tax that is due. If the transferring shareholders do not pay corporate income tax that is due for a transfer and the entity which has the obligation to pay the consideration does not withhold the tax due, the PRC tax authorities may impose a penalty on the entity that so fails to withhold, which may be relieved or exempted from the withholding obligation and any resulting penalty under certain circumstances if it reports such transfer to the PRC tax authorities.. We (or a foreign investor) may become at risk of being taxed or imposed a penalty under Announcement 7 and may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with Announcement 7 or to establish that we (or such foreign investor) should not be taxed under Announcement 7, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations (or such foreign investor's investment in us).. PRC regulations relating to mergers and acquisitions of domestic enterprises by foreign investors may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties.. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, namely, the PRC Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, the State Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, or SASAC, the State Administration for Taxation, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC, and SAFE, jointly adopted the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Rule, which became effective on September 8, 2006. The M&A Rule purports, among other things, (i) to require any PRC company, enterprise or individual that intends to merge or acquire its domestic affiliated company in the name of an overseas company which it lawfully established or controls, to apply for MOFCOM's examination on and approval for the proposed merger or acquisition; and (ii) to require SPVs, formed for overseas listing purposes through acquisitions of PRC domestic companies and controlled directly or indirectly by PRC companies or individuals, to obtain the approval of CSRC prior to publicly listing their securities on an overseas stock exchange. However, there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation, application and enforcement of these rules, and CSRC has yet to promulgate any written provisions or formally to declare or state whether the overseas listing of a PRC-related company structured similar to ours is subject to the approval of CSRC. As a result, we are not sure whether the M&A Rule would require us or our entities in China to obtain the approval from either MOFCOM or CSRC or any other regulatory agencies in connection with the transaction contemplated by the share transfer contracts which were entered into between Mr. Jie Han, Mr. Qingwei Ma and Xinda Holding (HK) Company Limited on June 26, 2008, the transaction contemplated in the Agreement and Plan of Merger entered into by and among NB Telecom, Favor Sea (BVI) and the shareholders of Favor Sea (BVI) on December 24, 2008 (detailed description of both of the two aforesaid transactions and relevant contracts can be found in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, filed on April 14, 2010) the adoption and performance of the option agreement dated May 16, 2008 between Ms. Piao and Mr. Han.. Further, in the event MOFCOM or CSRC deems it necessary for us to obtain its approval prior to our entry into the aforesaid agreements, we could be subject to severe penalties. The M&A Rule does not stipulate the specific penalty terms, therefore, we are unable to determine what penalties we may face, and how such penalties may affect our business operations or future strategy.. 54. Our business will suffer if we cannot obtain or maintain necessary permits or approvals.. Under PRC laws, we are required to obtain from various PRC governmental authorities certain permits and licenses in relation to the operation of our business. These permits and licenses are subject to periodic renewal and/or reassessment by the relevant PRC government authorities and the standards of compliance required in relation thereto may from time to time be subject to change. We cannot assure you that we can always obtain, maintain or renew all the permits and licenses in a timely manner. Additionally, any changes in compliance standards, or any new laws or regulations that may prohibit or render it more restrictive for us to conduct our business or increase our compliance costs may adversely affect our operations or profitability. Any failure by us to obtain, maintain or renew necessary licenses, permits and approvals, could subject us to fines and other penalties and limit the business we could conduct, which could have a material adverse effect on the operation of our business. In addition, we may not be able to carry on business without such permits and licenses being renewed and/or reassessed.. Pursuant to PRC laws and regulations, construction or expansion of a building or a production facility is subject to various permits and approvals from different government authorities. In connection with the construction of HLJ Xinda Group's factory and production facilities, which has already been completed and put into operation, we obtained a project approval from Administration Committee of Harbin Economic and Technological & High-tech Development Zone and an approval for the environmental impact assessment report on the construction project of HLJ Xinda Group in 2003. In connection with the construction of Sichuan Xinda Group's factory and production facilities which has been partially completed in the second half of 2016, we obtained the project approvals from Bureau of Development and Reform of Shunqing District, Nanchong City in 2013 and 2015, respectively.  In connection with the Phase II construction of AL Composites which has been completed by the middle of 2016, we obtained the project approval from Engineering & Project Management  Department, UAE region Economic Zones World (\"EZW\") in June 2015, and the building permit from Department of Planning & Development, Ports, Customs & Free Zone Corporation, Government of Dubai in September 2015. In July 2017, HLJ Xinda Group launched new industrial development project with the Management Committee of Harbin Economic - Technological Development Zone for upgrading existing equipment for 100,000 metric tons of engineering plastics and building 300,000 metric tons of biological composite materials, an industrial project for a 3D printing intelligent manufacture demonstration factory and a 3D printing display and experience cloud factory. On December 21, 2017 and February 7, 2018, we got building and planning permit from Harbin Municipal Urban and Rural Bureau, respectively.  Failure to obtain all necessary approvals/permits may subject us to various penalties, such as fines or being required to vacate from the facilities where we currently operate our business.. Increased environmental regulation in China could increase our costs of operation.. Certain processes utilized in the production of modified plastics result in toxic by-products. To date, the Chinese government has imposed only limited regulation on the production of these by-products, and enforcement of the regulations has been sparse. Recently, however, there is a substantial increase in focus on the Chinese environment, which has inspired considerable new regulation. Because we plans to export plastics to the U.S. and Europe in coming years, we have developed certain safeguards in our manufacturing processes to assure compliance with the environmental protection standard ISO/TS16949 Quality Assurance Standard, the European Union's RoHS Standards and Germany's PAHs Standards. Furthermore, we are in the process of applying for the U.S.'s UL Safety Certification, ISO14001 Environmental Management System Certification and OHSAS18001 Occupational Health Management System Certification. This compliance regimen brings us into compliance with all Chinese environmental regulations. Additional regulation, however, could increase our cost of doing business, which would impair our profitability.. 55. Our independent registered public accounting firm's audit documentation related to their audit reports included in our annual report is located in China. The PCAOB currently cannot inspect audit documentation located in China and, as such, you may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection.. Our independent registered public accounting firm issued an audit opinion on the financial statements included in our annual reports filed with the SEC. Our independent registered public accounting firm's audit documentation related to their audit reports included in our annual reports is located in China, and audit procedures take place within China's borders. As auditors of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or the PCAOB, our auditor is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB. However, work papers located in China are not currently inspected by the PCAOB because the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the PRC authorities.. Inspections of certain other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside of China have identified deficiencies in those firms' audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. However, the PCAOB is currently unable to inspect an auditor's audit work related to a company's operations in China and where such documentation of the audit work is located in China. As a result, our investors may be deprived of the benefits of the PCAOB's oversight of auditors that are located in China through such inspections.. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of an auditor's work papers in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of any of our auditor's audit procedures or quality control procedures that may be located in China as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Investors may consequently lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements.. The disclosures in our reports and other filings with the SEC and our other public pronouncements are not subject to the scrutiny of any regulatory bodies in China. Accordingly, our public disclosure should be reviewed in light of the fact that no governmental agency that is located in China where substantially all of our operations and business are located has conducted any due diligence on our operations or reviewed or cleared any of our disclosure.. We are regulated by the SEC and our reports and other filings with the SEC are subject to SEC review in accordance with the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act. Unlike public reporting companies whose operations are located primarily in the United States, however, substantially all of our operations are located in China. Since substantially all of our operations and business takes place in China, it may be more difficult for the Staff of the SEC to overcome the geographic and cultural obstacles that are present when reviewing our disclosure. These same obstacles are not present for similar companies whose operations or business take place entirely or primarily in the United States. Furthermore, our SEC reports and other disclosure and public pronouncements are not subject to the review or scrutiny of any PRC regulatory authority. For example, the disclosure in our SEC reports and other filings are not subject to the review of the CSRC, a PRC regulator that is tasked with oversight of the capital markets in China. Accordingly, you should review our SEC reports, filings and our other public pronouncements with the understanding that no local regulator has done any due diligence on our company and with the understanding that none of our SEC reports, other filings or any of our other public pronouncements has been reviewed or otherwise scrutinized by any local regulator.. 56. Our independent registered public accounting firm may be temporarily suspended from practicing before the SEC if unable to continue to satisfy SEC investigation requests in the future. If a delay in completion of our audit process occurs as a result, we could be unable to timely file certain reports with the SEC, which may lead to the delisting of our stock.. The vast majority of our sales are to customers in China, and we have all of our operations in China. Like many U.S. companies with significant operations in China, our independent registered public accounting firm is located in China.. On January 22, 2014, Judge Cameron Elliot, an SEC administrative law judge, issued an initial decision suspending the Chinese member firms of the \"Big Four\" accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, from practicing before the SEC for six months. In February 2014, the initial decision was appealed. While under appeal and in February 2015, the Chinese member firms of \"Big Four\" accounting firms reached a settlement with the SEC. As part of the settlement, each of the Chinese member firms of \"Big Four\" accounting firms agreed to settlement terms that include a censure, undertakings to make a payment to the SEC, procedures and undertakings as to future requests for documents by the SEC, and possible additional proceedings and remedies should those undertakings not be adhered to.. If the settlement terms are not adhered to, Chinese member firms of \"Big four\" accounting firms may be suspended from practicing before the SEC which could in turn delay the timely filing of our financial statements with the SEC. In addition, it could be difficult for us to timely identify and engage another qualified independent auditor to replace our independent registered public accounting firm. A delinquency in our filings with the SEC may result in NASDAQ initiating procedures, which could adversely harm our reputation and have other material adverse effects on our overall growth and prospects.. We may fail to develop and maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting.  As a result, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud and current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in the integrity of our financial reports, which could harm our business and the trading price of our common stock.. Prior to our listing on the US stock exchange, we were a private company with all business operations within China. Our accounting and reporting system was designed to satisfy local statutory requirements and internal management needs. Since we became a public company, our business has grown significantly over the years. Management concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting were ineffective as of December 31, 2016, due to one material weakness which relates to the lack of sufficient accounting and financial reporting personnel to formalize certain key controls over the financial reporting process and report financial information based on US GAAP and SEC reporting requirements.. Our management is committed to strengthening our internal controls and complying with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (\"SOX 404\"). Since 2014 when we were required to comply with SOX 404, our efforts to improve our internal control over financial reporting include:  (1) our accounting staff obtained external training of U.S. GAAP and SEC reporting by qualified entities, (2) having hired two third-party SOX 404 compliance consultants to help us improve our internal control system, (3) continuing to seek senior qualified people with requisite expertise and knowledge to help improve our internal control procedures, (4) having adopted internal policies and approval and supervision procedures governing financial reporting, (5) having adopted procedures to evaluate and assess performance of directors, officers and employees of the Company, and (6) continuing to hold internal meetings, discussions and seminars periodically to review and improve our internal control procedures.. However, we cannot be certain that these measures we have undertaken will ensure that we will develop and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Furthermore, if we are able to rapidly grow our business, the internal controls that we will need may become more complex, and significantly more resources may be required to ensure our internal controls remain effective. Failure to implement required controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we fail to develop and maintain an effective internal control system, our stockholders and other potential investors may lose confidence in our business operations and the integrity of our financial statements, and may be discouraged from future investments in our company, which may delay or hinder any future business development or expansion plans if we are unable to raise funds in future financings, and our current stockholders may choose to dispose of the shares of common stock they own in our company, which could have a negative impact on our stock price. In addition, non-compliance with SOX 404 could subject us to a variety of administrative sanctions, including the suspension of trading of our stock on the NASDAQ Global Market, ineligibility for listing on other national securities exchanges, and the inability of registered broker-dealers to make a market in our common stock, which could further reduce our stock price.. 57. We may be subject to or be liable for US taxes, interest and penalties.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Act\"), which significantly changed U.S. tax law. The Act lowered the Company's U.S. statutory federal income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018, while also imposing a deemed repatriation tax on deferred foreign income. The Act also created a new minimum tax on certain future foreign earnings.. The Company recorded a charge of approximately $71.0 million for the repatriation tax on deemed repatriation to the United States of accumulated earnings. The charge for deemed repatriation will be payable by the Company over an eight-year period commencing April 2018. $71.0 million repatriation tax, as a provisional amount, represents the Company's reasonable estimate for income tax effects of the Tax Act, to the extent that the Company's accounting for certain income tax effects is incomplete as additional information is needed to be prepared, analyzed and computations.. The actual impact of the U.S. Tax Reform on the Company may differ from management's estimates, and management may update the provisional amount upon obtaining, preparing or analyzing additional information, based on its review of future regulations or guidance issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury, and specific actions the Company may take in the future.. Our inability or failure to protect our intellectual property rights may significantly and materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Protection of our proprietary processes, methods and other technology is important to our business. We generally rely on a combination of the patent, trademark and copyright laws of the PRC and laws protecting trade secret in the PRC, as well as licenses and non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements, to protect our intellectual property rights. The patent, trademark and copyright laws of the PRC, as well as laws protecting trade secret in the PRC, may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S.. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights may result in the loss of valuable proprietary technologies. Additionally, some of our technologies are not covered by any patent or patent application and, even if a patent application has been filed, it may not result in an issued patent. If patents are issued to us, those patents may not provide meaningful protection against competitors or against competitive technologies. In addition, upon the expiration of patents issued to us, we will be unable to prevent our competitors from using or introducing products using the formerly-patented technology. As a result, we may be faced with increased competition and our results of operations may be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that our intellectual property rights will not be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable.. We also rely upon unpatented proprietary manufacturing expertise, continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. While we generally enter into confidentiality/non-disclosure agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, we cannot assure you that our confidentiality/non-disclosure agreements will not be breached, that they will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and proprietary manufacturing expertise or that adequate remedies will be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets or manufacturing expertise.. Our intellectual property rights may be challenged or infringed upon by third parties or we may be unable to maintain, renew or enter into new license agreements that are important to our business with third-party owners of intellectual property on reasonable terms. We could also face patent infringement claims from our competitors or others alleging that our processes or products infringe on their proprietary technologies. If we are found to be infringing on the proprietary technology of others, we may be liable for damages, and we may be required to change our processes, to redesign our products partially or completely, to pay to use the technology of others or to stop using certain technologies or producing the infringing product(s) entirely. Even if we ultimately prevail in an infringement suit, the existence of the suit could prompt customers to switch to products that are not the subject of infringement suits. We may not prevail in any intellectual property litigation and such litigation may result in significant legal costs or otherwise impede our ability to produce and distribute key products.. 58. We may be unable to renew the leases for our factories on acceptable terms or these leases may be terminated.. As of December 31, 2017, HLJ Xinda Group operated three separate factories located at 9 Qinling Road (the \"Qinling Road Factory\"), 9 North Dalian Road (the \"Dalian Road Factory\") and 9 Jiangnan First Road (the \"Jiangnan Road Factory\"), respectively.  HLJ Xinda Group owns the titles to the land and premises of the Qinling Road Factory.  HLJ Xinda Group leases the land and premises of the Dalian Road Factory from Xinda High-Tech. HLJ Xinda Group is in the process of acquiring the titles to the land and premises at Jiangnan Road Factory. The Company expects the title transfer to be completed by the end of third quarter of 2018. HLJ Xinda Group's leases will expire on December 31, 2018. If we are unable to renew our lease on acceptable terms in due course or acquire the titles to the land and premises at Jiannan Road Factory or if our lease is terminated by the lessor unilaterally for the Dalian Road Factory:. <U+25CF> we may be unable to find a new property with the amenities and in the location we require for our factories, which may result in a factory closure;. <U+25CF> we may have to relocate to a less desirable location;. <U+25CF> we may have to relocate to a location with facilities that do not meet our requirements;. <U+25CF> our factories may experience significant disruption in operations and, as a result, we may be unable to produce products during the period of disruption.. Any of these events may materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. Our ability to sell our products at current profit margin is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, which are beyond our control; in particular, we may not be able to reflect raw material cost increases in the price of our products.. Our ability to sell our products at current profit margin is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, which are beyond our control. For example, general slow-down in the Chinese or world economy may lessen the demand for our products, and we may be forced to sell our products at a lower price.. Particularly, we may not be able to pass through raw material cost increases to our customers on a timely basis and reflect such increases in the price of our products. We purchase various plastic resins, which are derived from petroleum or natural gas, to produce our modified plastics products. Cost of raw materials made up a vast majority of our cost of revenues in 2017 and 2016. The market prices of plastic resins may fluctuate due to changes in supply and demand conditions in that industry. Any shortage in supply of or significant increase in demand for plastic resins and additives may result in higher market prices and thereby increase our cost of revenues, and we may not be able to pass on increases in the prices of raw materials to our customers. Under the terms of our distributor agreements, we will only be able to increase the sales prices for our products if the cost of our raw materials increases by more than 5% on a cumulative basis. As a result, we may not be able to adjust our selling prices in a timely manner, and our inability to increase the selling prices of our products sold during the period in which the cumulative increases of the cost of our raw materials is less than 5% may reduce our profitability. Furthermore, other adverse developments such as increased competition may not allow us to pass through cost increases to our distributors at all. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our margins, results of operations and financial condition. When expanding into new regions, we have taken and may continue to take marketing initiatives from time to time to offer sales incentives, including discounts, to increase market share. Such initiatives and measures have put and may continue to put pressure on our margins.. 59. Our assets are primarily located in China. So any dividends or proceeds from liquidation are subject to the approval of the relevant Chinese government agencies.. Our assets are primarily located inside China. Under the laws governing FIEs in China, dividend distribution and liquidation are allowed but subject to respective administrative procedures under the relevant laws and rules. Any dividend payment will be subject to the decision of the Board of Directors and be subject to foreign exchange rules governing such repatriation. Any liquidation is subject to the decision of the highest authority of the company, the relevant government agency's approval and supervision (including but not limited to the local branch of MOFCOM), as well as the whole process of liquidation under PRC laws and regulations, including without limitation personnel resettlement, assets disposition, settlement of debts and creditor's rights as well as deregistration, which process could be very time-consuming and complex. Since the dividend distribution procedure is subject to foreign exchange rules governing such repatriation, risks may arise for our investors when HLJ Xinda Group pays dividend to us through Xinda HK. Furthermore, the liquidation procedure is a complex and time consuming procedures subject to government approvals, additional risks and costs may arise for our investors in the process.. Governmental control of currency conversions may affect the value of your investment.. A majority of our revenue are earned in Renminbi. Any future restrictions on currency conversions may limit our ability to use revenue generated in Renminbi to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the PRC government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the Renminbi for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign-invested enterprises like us may buy, sell or remit foreign currencies only after providing valid commercial documents at a PRC banks specifically authorized to conduct foreign-exchange business.. In addition, conversion of Renminbi for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in the PRC, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign-exchange accounts for capital account items. There is no guarantee that PRC regulatory authorities will not impose additional restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi. Such restrictions could prevent us from distributing dividends and thereby reduce the value of our stock.. The fluctuation of the exchange rate of the Renminbi against the dollar could reduce the value of your investment.. The value of our common stock will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we receive from an offering of our securities into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. Dollar could reduce the value in Renminbi of our funds. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our common stock or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries in China would be reduced.. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. Dollar. Under the 2005 policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. Renminbi appreciated by more than 20% against the U.S. dollar between July 2005 and July 2008. Between July 2008 and June 2010, this appreciation halted and the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar remained within a narrow band. Between July 2008 and June 2010, this appreciation halted and the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar remained within a narrow band. On June 19, 2010, the People's Bank of China decided to further promote the reform of the Renminbi exchange rate formation mechanism, and improve the flexibility of Renminbi exchange rate. The Company and its subsidiaries (both domestic and overseas) have debts denominated in foreign currencies, fluctuations in the exchange rates of Renminbi and Singapore dollar into foreign currencies creates exchange risk for the Company. With the internationalization process and RMB joining the SDR, RMB exchange rate may continue to fluctuate in the future. In August 2015, the People's Bank of China perfected its midpoint rate determination mechanism, which led to a 2% depreciation of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. However, it is difficult to predict how market forces or PRC or U.S. government policy may impact the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar in the future. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC Government to further liberalize its currency policy, which could result in further fluctuations in the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. However, there is no assurance that there will not be a devaluation of Renminbi in the future. If there is such devaluation, our debt servicing cost will increase and the return to our overseas investors may decrease.. 60. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of the China. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict our ability to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends, or otherwise satisfy foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from the transaction, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from SAFE by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate governmental authorities is required where Renminbi are to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of the PRC to pay capital expenses, such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies.. The PRC government could also restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay certain expenses as they become due.. MSPEA Modified Plastics Holding Limited (\"MSPEA\") has significant influence over our affairs.. MSPEA currently owns 100% of our outstanding Series D Preferred Stock, representing approximately 24.3% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock on an as converted basis. Pursuant to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Designation of Series D Preferred Stock, holders of Series D Preferred Stock have the right to elect, voting as a separate class, two directors to serve on the Board so long as at least 12,800,000 (adjusted for any dilutive corporate actions) shares of Series D Preferred Stock are outstanding, and one director to serve on the Board if the number of shares of Series D Preferred Stock outstanding at such time is less than 12,800,000 but more than 1,600,000 (in each case adjusted for any dilutive corporate actions). For so long as at least 1,600,000 (adjusted for any dilutive corporate actions) shares of Series D Preferred Stock remain outstanding, holders of Series D Preferred Stock have veto rights over certain material corporate actions of the Company and its subsidiaries as described in the Amended and Restated Certificate of Designation of Series D Preferred Stock. As such, MSPEA currently has significant influence over our affairs.. Upon the occurrence of certain events, we may be required to redeem all or a portion of the Series D Preferred Stock.. On January 27, 2014, the Company adopted and filed the Amended and Restated Certificate of Designation of Series D Preferred Stock (the \"Restated Certificate of Designation\") with the Secretary of State of the State of Nevada, pursuant to which, the maturity date of the Series D Preferred Stock is extended to February 4, 2019, and, the performance target for the year ended December 31, 2013 the failure to meet which target could trigger the mandatory redemption of the Series D Preferred Stock, has been removed.. As of December 31, 2013, the Company concluded that it has met the actual profit targets under the Restated Certificate of Designation that could otherwise trigger mandatory redemption. The remaining trigger events pursuant to the terms of the Restated Certificate of Designation for such mandatory redemption include:. (i) a breach by the Company, XD Engineering Plastics Company Limited (\"XD Engineering Plastics\"), or Mr. Han of certain provisions of the financing documents in connection with the issuance and sale of the Series D Preferred Stock, if such breach would constitute a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole or which materially diminishes the value of the Series D Preferred Stock,. (ii) the commencement by the Company or any of its subsidiaries of any bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or the like, or. (iii) the appointment of a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee or other similar officials of the Company or any of its subsidiaries for the winding up or liquidation of its affairs.. If any of the events mentioned above occurs prior to February 4, 2019, or, in the event the Series D Preferred Stock remains outstanding as of February 4, 2019, we may be required to redeem such shares at a price per share equal to an amount that would yield a total (annualized) internal rate of return of 15% to the holder of such Series D Preferred Stock on the original issue price of US$6.25 per share, and, in the event we have insufficient cash available or do not have access to additional third-party financings on commercially reasonable terms or at all to complete such redemption, we may experience liquidity problems, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to service our debt, including the Notes, and we may be required to liquidate assets to fund such redemption.. 61. The consummation of the proposed going-private transaction is uncertain, and the announcement and pendency of such transaction could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. On February 16, 2017, the Board has received a preliminary nonbinding proposal letter from the Buyer Consortium to acquire all of the outstanding shares of common stock of the Company not already beneficially owned by the Buyer Consortium in a \"going-private\" transaction (the \"Transaction\") for US$5.21 per share of common stock in cash. The proposal letter states that the Buyer Consortium expects that the Board will appoint a special committee of independent directors to consider the proposal and make a recommendation to the Board. The proposal letter also states that the Buyer Consortium will not move forward with the proposed Transaction unless it is approved by such a special committee, and the proposed Transaction will be subject to a nonwaivable condition requiring approval by majority shareholder vote of shareholders other than the Buyer Consortium members. The Buyer Consortium currently beneficially owns approximately 74% of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of the Company on a fully diluted and as-converted basis. The Board has established a special committee (the \"Special Committee\") of disinterested directors to consider the proposal The Special Committee is composed of the following independent directors of the Company:, Mr. Feng Li, and Mr. Linyuan Zha, with Mr. Li serving as chairperson of the Special Committee. The Special Committee will be responsible for evaluating, negotiating and recommending to the Board any proposals involving a strategic transaction by the Company with one or more third parties.. There can be no assurance that any definitive offer will be made, that any agreement will be executed or that a transaction with the Buyer Consortium or any other transaction will be approved or consummated. The process of consummating the proposed Transaction or any other significant strategic transaction involving our company could cause disruptions in our business and divert our management's attention and other resources from day-to-day operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, current and prospective employees and members of management could become uncertain about their future roles with us in the event the Transaction is completed. This uncertainty could adversely affect our ability to retain and hire employees and members of management."
