[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to the Company. In addition to risks and uncertainties in the ordinary course of business that are common to all businesses, important factors that are specific to our industry and us could materially impact our future performance and results.  The factors described below are the most significant risks that could have a material impact our business.. Our business is sensitive to economic conditions which may affect consumer confidence, consumers' discretionary spending, or our access to credit in a manner that adversely impacts our operations. Economic trends can impact consumer confidence and consumers' discretionary spending.. • Negative economic conditions and the persistence of elevated levels of unemployment can impact consumers' disposable incomes and, therefore, impact the demand for entertainment and leisure activities.. • Declines in the residential real estate market, increases in individual tax rates and other factors that we cannot accurately predict may reduce the disposable income of our customers.. • Decreases in consumer discretionary spending could affect us even if such decreases occur in other markets.  For example, reduced wagering levels and profitability at racetracks from which we carry racing content could cause certain racetracks to cancel races or cease operations and therefore reduce the content we could provide to our customers.. Lower consumer confidence or reductions in consumers' discretionary spending could result in fewer patrons spending money at our racetracks, gaming and wagering facilities and our online wagering sites and could reduce consumer spending.. Our access to and cost of credit may be impacted to the extent global and U.S. credit markets are affected by downward economic trends.  Economic trends can also impact the financial viability of other industry constituents, making collection of amounts owed to us uncertain.  Our ability to respond to periods of economic contraction may be limited, as certain of our costs remain fixed or even increase when revenue declines.. We are vulnerable to additional or increased taxes and fees. We believe that the prospect of raising significant additional revenue through taxes and fees is one of the primary reasons that certain jurisdictions permit legalized gaming. As a result, gaming companies are typically subject to significant taxes and fees in addition to the normal federal, state, provincial and local income taxes and such taxes and fees may be increased at any time. From time to time, legislators and officials have proposed changes in tax laws or in the administration of laws affecting the gaming industry. Many states and municipalities, including ones in which we operate, are currently experiencing budgetary pressures that may make it more likely they would seek to impose additional taxes and fees on our operations. It is not possible to determine the likelihood or extent of any such future changes in tax laws or fees, or changes in the administration of such laws; however, if enacted, such changes could have a material adverse impact on our business.. A lack of confidence in the integrity of our core businesses could affect our ability to retain our customers and engage with new customers. The integrity of the horseracing, casino gaming and pari-mutuel wagering industries must be perceived as fair to patrons and the public at large. To prevent cheating or erroneous payouts, the necessary oversight processes must be in place to ensure that such activities cannot be manipulated. A loss of confidence in the fairness of our industries could have a material adverse impact on our business.. We depend on key and highly skilled personnel to operate our business, and if we are unable to retain our current personnel or hire additional personnel, our ability to develop and successfully grow our business could be harmed. We believe that our success depends in part on our highly-skilled employee base, and our ability to hire, develop, motivate and retain highly qualified and skilled employees throughout our organization. If we do not successfully hire, develop, motivate and retain highly qualified and skilled employees, it is likely that we could experience significant disruptions in our operations and our ability to develop and successfully grow our business could be impaired, which could harm our business.. Competition for the type of talent we seek to hire is increasingly intense in the geographic areas in which we operate. As a result, we may incur significant costs to attract and retain highly-skilled employees. We may be unable to attract and retain the personnel necessary to sustain our business or support future growth.. All of our officers and other employees in the United States are at-will employees, which means they may terminate their employment relationship with us at any time and their knowledge of our business and industry would be difficult to replace.. Our continued success and our ability to maintain our competitive position is largely dependent upon, among other things, the skills and efforts of our senior executives and management team. We cannot guarantee that these individuals will remain with. 18. us, and their retention is affected by the competitiveness of our terms of employment and our ability to compete effectively against other companies. Certain of our key employees are required to file applications with the gaming authorities in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate and are required to be licensed or found suitable by these gaming authorities. If the gaming authorities were to find a key employee unsuitable for licensing, we may be required to sever the employee relationship, or the gaming authorities may require us to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate applications. Either result could significantly impair our operations. Our inability to retain key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business.. Our debt facilities contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. Our debt facilities contain a number of covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions, including restrictions on our ability to, among other things, take the following actions:. • incur additional debt or issue certain preferred shares;. • pay dividends on or make distributions in respect of our capital stock, repurchase common shares or make other restricted payments;. • make certain investments;. • sell certain assets or consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets;. • create liens on certain assets;. • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates; and. • designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries.. As a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs.. We have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under our debt facilities.  If any of these lenders accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay our indebtedness and our lenders could exercise their rights against the collateral we have granted them.. Under our debt facilities, we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios.  Our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and as a result, we may be unable to meet those ratios.  A failure to comply with the covenants contained in our debt facilities or our other indebtedness could result in an event of default under our debt facilities or our other indebtedness which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse impact on our business.  In the event of any default under our debt facilities or our other indebtedness, the lenders thereunder:. • will not be required to lend any additional amounts to us;. • could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit; or. • require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings.. If the indebtedness under our debt facilities or our other indebtedness were to be accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full.. Ownership and development of real estate requires significant expenditures and is subject to risk. Our operations require us to own extensive real estate holdings. All real estate investments are subject to risks including the following: general economic conditions, such as the availability and cost of financing; local and national real estate conditions, such as an oversupply of residential, office, retail or warehousing space, or a reduction in demand for real estate in the area; governmental regulation, including taxation of property and environmental legislation; and the attractiveness of properties to potential purchasers or tenants. Significant expenditures, including property taxes, mortgage payments, maintenance costs, insurance costs and related charges, must be made throughout the period of ownership of real property. Such expenditures may negatively impact our operating results.. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local governmental laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge, emission and disposal of hazardous materials. Environmental laws and regulations could hold us responsible for the cost of cleaning up hazardous materials contaminating real property that we own or operate (or previously owned or operated) or properties at which we have disposed of hazardous materials, even if we did not cause the contamination. If we fail to comply with environmental laws or if contamination is discovered, a court or government agency could impose severe penalties or restrictions on our operations or assess us with the costs of taking remedial actions. For instance, we are currently in discussions. 19. with the EPA regarding potential remedial actions relating to alleged CAFO non-compliance at Fair Grounds and expect to incur certain capital expenditures to upgrade these facilities to resolve this issue.. Catastrophic events and system failures could cause a significant and continued disruption to our operations. A disruption or failure in our systems or operations in the event of a major earthquake, weather event, cyber-attack, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event could interrupt our operations, damage our properties and reduce the number of customers who visit our facilities in the affected areas. Flooding, blizzards, windstorms, earthquakes or hurricanes could adversely affect our locations. While we maintain insurance coverage that may cover certain of the costs that we incur as a result of some natural disasters, our coverage is subject to deductibles, exclusions and limits on maximum benefits. We may not be able to fully collect, if at all, on any claims resulting from extreme weather conditions or other disasters. If any of our properties are damaged or if our operations are disrupted or face prolonged closure as a result of natural disasters in the future, or if natural disasters adversely impact general economic or other conditions in the areas in which our properties are located or from which we draw our patrons, the disruption could have a material adverse impact on our business.. Our mobile and online wagering and brick-and-mortar casino businesses depend upon our communications hardware and our computer hardware. We have built certain redundancies into our systems to avoid downtime in the event of outages, system failures or damage; however, certain risks still exist. Our systems also remain vulnerable to damage or interruption from floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist cyber-attacks, hardware or software error, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks and similar events. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. Any unscheduled interruption in the availability of our website and our services results in an immediate, and possibly substantial, loss of revenue. Interruptions in our services or a breach of customers' secure data could cause current or potential users to believe that our systems are unreliable, leading them to switch to our competitors or to avoid our site, and could permanently harm our reputation and brand. These interruptions also increase the burden on our engineering staff which, in turn, could delay our introduction of new features and services on our websites and in our games. We have property and business interruption insurance covering damage or interruption of our systems; however, this insurance might not be sufficient to compensate us for all losses that may occur.. We have \"all risk\" property insurance coverage for our operating properties which covers damage caused by a casualty loss (such as fire, natural disasters, acts of war, or terrorism); however, each policy has certain exclusions. Our level of property insurance coverage, which is subject to policy maximum limits, may not be adequate to cover all losses in the event of a major casualty. In addition, certain casualty events may not be covered at all under our policies. Therefore, certain acts could expose us to substantial uninsured losses. We renew our insurance policies on an annual basis. The cost of coverage may become so high that we may need to further reduce our policy limits or agree to certain exclusions from our coverage.. Our debt instruments and other material agreements require us to meet certain standards related to insurance coverage. Failure to satisfy these requirements could result in an event of default under these debt instruments or material agreements.. We may not be able to identify and complete expansion, acquisition or divestiture projects on time, on budget or as planned. We expect to pursue expansion, acquisition and divestiture opportunities, and we regularly evaluate opportunities for development, including acquisitions or other strategic corporate transactions which may expand our business operations.. We could face challenges in identifying development projects that fit our strategic objectives, identifying potential acquisition or divestiture candidates and/or development partners, finding buyers, negotiating projects on acceptable terms, and managing and integrating the acquisition or development projects. New developments or acquisitions may not be completed or integrated successfully. The divestiture of existing businesses may be affected by our ability to identify potential buyers. Current or future regulation may postpone a divestiture pending certain resolutions to federal, state or local legislative issues. New properties or developments may not be completed or integrated successfully.. We may experience difficulty in integrating recent or future acquisitions into our operations. We have completed acquisition transactions in the past, and we may pursue acquisitions from time to time in the future. The successful integration of newly acquired businesses into our operations has required and will continue to require the expenditure of substantial managerial, operating, financial and other resources and may also lead to a diversion of our attention from our ongoing business concerns. We may not be able to successfully integrate new businesses, manage the combined operations or realize projected revenue gains, cost savings and synergies in connection with those acquisitions on the timetable contemplated, if at all. Management of the new business operations, especially those in new lines of business or different geographic areas, may require that we increase our managerial resources. The process of integrating new operations may also interrupt the activities of those businesses which could have a material adverse impact on our business. The costs of integrating businesses we acquire could significantly impact our short-term operating results. These costs could include the following:. • restructuring charges associated with the acquisitions;. 20. • non-recurring acquisition costs, including accounting and legal fees, investment banking fees and recognition of transaction-related costs or liabilities; and. • costs of imposing financial and management controls (such as compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002) and operating, administrative and information systems.. We perform financial, operational and legal diligence on the businesses we purchase; however, an unavoidable level of risk remains regarding the actual condition of these businesses and our ability to continue to operate them successfully and integrate them into our existing operations.  In any acquisition we make, we face risks that include the following:. • the risk that the acquired business may not further our business strategy or that we paid more than the business was worth;. • the risk that the financial performance of the acquired business declines or fails to meet our expectations from and after the date of acquisition;. • the potential adverse impact on our relationships with partner companies or third-party providers of technology or products;. • the possibility that we have acquired substantial undisclosed liabilities for which we may have no recourse against the sellers or third party insurers;. • costs and complications in maintaining required regulatory approvals or obtaining further regulatory approvals necessary to implement the acquisition in accordance with our strategy;. • the risks of acquiring businesses and/or entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience;. • the potential loss of key employees or customers;. • the possibility that we may be unable to retain or recruit managers with the necessary skills to manage the acquired businesses; and. • changes to legal and regulatory guidelines which may negatively affect acquisitions.. If we are unsuccessful in overcoming these risks, it could have a material adverse impact on our business.. The legalization of online real money gaming in the United States and our ability to predict and capitalize on any such legalization may impact our business. Nevada, Delaware, New Jersey and Pennsylvania have enacted legislation to legalize online real money gaming. In recent years, California, Mississippi, Hawaii, Massachusetts, Iowa, Illinois, New York, Washington D.C. and West Virginia have considered such legislation. If a large number of additional states or the Federal government enact online real money gaming legislation and we are unable to obtain the necessary licenses to operate online real money gaming websites in United States jurisdictions where such games are legalized, our future growth in real money gaming could be materially impaired.. States or the Federal government may legalize online real money gaming in a manner that is unfavorable to us. Several states and the Federal government are considering draft laws that require online casinos to also have a license to operate a brick-and mortar casino, either directly or indirectly through an affiliate. If, like Nevada and New Jersey, state jurisdictions enact legislation legalizing online real money casino gaming subject to this brick-and-mortar requirement, we may be unable to offer online real money gaming in such jurisdictions if we are unable to establish an affiliation with a brick-and-mortar casino in such jurisdiction on acceptable terms.. In the online real money gaming industry, a significant \"first mover\" advantage exists. Our ability to compete effectively in respect of a particular style of online real money gaming in the United States may be premised on introducing a style of gaming before our competitors. Failing to do so (\"move first\") could materially impair our ability to grow in the online real money gaming space. We may fail to accurately predict when online real money gaming will be legalized in significant jurisdictions. The legislative process in each state and at the Federal level is unique and capable of rapid, often unpredictable change. If we fail to accurately forecast when and how, if at all, online real money gaming will be legalized in additional state jurisdictions, such failure could impair our readiness to introduce online real money gaming offerings in such jurisdictions which could have a material adverse impact on our business.. Our business may be adversely affected by the number of people attending and wagering on live horse races. Our Racing segment is dependent upon the number of people attending and wagering on live horse races at our racetracks and our TwinSpires segment is dependent on wagering on live horse races at our racetracks and third-party racetracks.  According to industry sources, pari-mutuel handle on average declined 2% per year from 2008 to 2017 due to a number of factors, including increased competition from other wagering and entertainment alternatives.  From 2014 to 2017, pari-mutuel handle on horse. 21. racing has been relatively stable with average annual growth of 1%.   If interest in horse racing is lower in the future, it may have a negative impact on revenue and profitability in our Racing segment and our TwinSpires segment.  If attendance at and wagering on live horse racing declines, it could have a material adverse impact on our business.. We may not be able to respond to rapid technological changes in a timely manner which may cause customer dissatisfaction. Casino and TwinSpires segments are characterized by the rapid development of new technologies and continuous introduction of new products. Our main technological advantage versus potential competitors is our software lead-time in the market and our experience in operating an Internet-based wagering network; however, we may not be able to maintain our competitive technological position against current and potential competitors, especially those with greater financial resources. Our success depends upon new product development and technological advancements including the development of new wagering platforms and features. While we expend resources on research and development and product enhancement, we may not be able to continue to improve and market our existing products or technologies or develop and market new products in a timely manner. Further technological developments may cause our products or technologies to become obsolete or noncompetitive.. We may inadvertently infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. In the course of our business, we may become aware of potentially relevant patents or other intellectual property rights held by other parties. Many of our competitors as well as other companies and individuals have obtained, and may obtain in the future, patents or other intellectual property rights that concern products or services related to the types of products and services we currently offer or may plan to offer in the future. We evaluate the validity and applicability of these intellectual property rights and determine in each case whether we must negotiate licenses to incorporate or use the proprietary technologies in our products.. Claims of intellectual property infringement may also require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. However, we may not be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against the development and sale of our products and services if we become subject to litigation relating to intellectual property infringement.. We may be unable to adequately protect our own intellectual property rights. Our results may be affected by the outcome of litigation within our industry and the protection and validity of our intellectual property rights. Any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property used in our products, including in the areas of advance deposit wagering could be costly and time consuming and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations.. Some of our businesses are based upon the creation, acquisition, use and protection of intellectual property. Some of this intellectual property is in the form of software code, patented and other technologies and trade secrets that we use to develop and market our businesses. We rely on trademark, copyright and patent law, trade secret protection and contracts to protect our intellectual property rights. If we are not successful in protecting these rights, the value of our brands and our business could be adversely impacted.. Competitors may devise new methods of competing with us which may not be covered by our patents or patent applications. Our patent applications may not be approved, the patents we have may not adequately protect our intellectual property or ongoing business strategies and our patents may be challenged by third parties or found to be invalid or unenforceable.. Effective trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country. The laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States; therefore, we may be unable to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technologies adequately against unauthorized copying or use in certain jurisdictions.. We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material to third parties. These licensees may take actions that could diminish the value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation, even if we have agreements prohibiting such activity. To the extent third parties are obligated to indemnify us for breaches of our intellectual property rights, these third parties may be unable to meet these obligations. Any of these events could harm our business.. Our business is subject to online security risk, including security breaches, and loss or misuse of our stored information as a result of such a breach, including customers' personal information, could lead to government enforcement action or other litigation, potential liability, or otherwise harm our business. We receive, process, store and use personal information and other customer data. There are numerous federal, state and local laws regarding privacy and the storing, sharing, use, processing, disclosure and protection of personal information and other data. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with our privacy policies, our privacy-related obligations to customers or other third parties, or our privacy-related legal obligations, or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release or transfer of personally identifiable information or other player data, may result in governmental enforcement actions, litigation. 22. or public statements against us by consumer advocacy groups or others and could cause our customers to lose trust in us which could have an adverse impact on our business. In the area of information security and data protection, many states have passed laws requiring notification to customers when there is a security breach for personal data, such as the 2002 amendment to California's Information Practices Act, or requiring the adoption of minimum information security standards that are often vaguely defined and difficult to practically implement. The costs of compliance with these types of laws may increase in the future as a result of changes in interpretation or changes in law. Any failure on our part to comply with these types of laws may subject us to significant liabilities.. Third parties we work with, such as vendors, may violate applicable laws or our policies, and such violations may also put our customers' information at risk and could in turn have an adverse impact on our business. We are also subject to payment card association rules and obligations under each association's contracts with payment card processors. Under these rules and obligations, if information is compromised, we could be liable to payment card issuers for the associated expense and penalties. If we fail to follow payment card industry security standards, even if no customer information is compromised, we could incur significant fines or experience a significant increase in payment card transaction costs.. Security breaches, computer malware and computer hacking attacks have become more prevalent in our industry. Many companies, including ours, have been the targets of such attacks. Any security breach caused by hacking which involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems, or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment, and the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could harm our business. Though it is difficult to determine what harm may directly result from any specific interruption or breach, any failure to maintain performance, reliability, security and availability of our network infrastructure to the satisfaction of our players may harm our reputation and our ability to retain existing players and attract new players.. We take significant measures to protect the secrecy of large portions of our source code. If unauthorized disclosure of our source code occurs, we could potentially lose future trade secret protection for that source code. This could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. Unauthorized disclosure of source code also could increase security risks.. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems, change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. We have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect customer information and prevent data loss and other security breaches, including systems and processes designed to reduce the impact of a security breach at a third party vendor; however, such measures cannot provide absolute security.. We are subject to payment-related risks, such as risk associated with the fraudulent use of credit or debit cards which could have adverse effects on our business due to chargebacks from customers. We allow funding and payments to accounts using a variety of methods, including electronic funds transfer (\"EFT\"), and credit and debit cards. As we continue to introduce new funding or payment options to our players, we may be subject to additional regulatory and compliance requirements. We also may be subject to the risk of fraudulent use of credit or debit cards, or other funding and/or payment options. For certain funding or payment options, including credit and debit cards, we may pay interchange and other fees which may increase over time and, therefore, raise operating costs and reduce profitability. We rely on third parties to provide payment-processing services and it could disrupt our business if these companies become unwilling or unable to provide these services to us. We are also subject to rules and requirements governing EFT which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees or possibly lose our ability to accept credit or debit cards, or other forms of payment from customers which could have a material adverse impact on our business.. Chargebacks occur when customers seek to void credit card or other payment transactions. Cardholders are intended to be able to reverse card transactions only if there has been unauthorized use of the card or the services contracted for have not been provided. In our business, customers occasionally seek to reverse online gaming losses through chargebacks. We place great emphasis on control procedures to protect from chargebacks; however, these control procedures may not be sufficient to protect us from adverse effects on our business or results of operations.. Any violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, other similar laws and regulations, or applicable anti-money laundering regulations could have a negative impact on us. We are subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the United States, including exposure to complex foreign and U.S. regulations such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the \"FCPA\") and other anti-corruption laws which generally prohibit U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business.  Violations of the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions and other penalties.  It may be difficult to oversee the conduct of any contractors, third-party partners, representatives or agents who are not our employees, potentially exposing us to greater risk from their actions.  If our employees or agents fail to comply with. 23. applicable laws or company policies governing our international operations, we may face legal proceedings and actions which could result in civil penalties, administration actions and criminal sanctions.  Any determination that we have violated any anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse impact on our business.. We also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to various reporting and anti-money laundering regulations.  Any violation of anti-money laundering laws or regulations by any of our properties could have a material adverse impact on our business.. Work stoppages and other labor problems could negatively impact our future plans. Some of our employees are represented by labor unions.  A strike or other work stoppage at one of our properties could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations.  From time to time, we have also experienced attempts to unionize certain of our non-union employees.  We may experience additional and more successful union activity in the future.. Risks Related to Our Racing Business. We may not be able to attract a sufficient number of horses and trainers to achieve full field horseraces. We believe that patrons prefer to wager on races with a large number of horses, commonly referred to as full fields. A failure to offer races with full fields results in less wagering on our horseraces. Our ability to attract full fields depends on several factors, including our ability to offer and fund competitive purses and the overall horse population available for racing. Various factors have led to declines in the horse population in certain areas of the country, including competition from racetracks in other areas, increased costs and changing economic returns for owners and breeders, and the spread of various debilitating and contagious equine diseases. If any of our racetracks is faced with a sustained outbreak of a contagious equine disease, it could have a material impact on our profitability. If we are unable to attract horse owners to stable and race their horses at our racetracks by offering a competitive environment, including improved facilities, well-maintained racetracks, better conditions for backstretch personnel involved in the care and training of horses stabled at our racetracks and a competitive purse structure, our profitability could also decrease.. We also face increased competition for horses and trainers from racetracks that are licensed to operate slot machines and other electronic gaming machines that provide these racetracks an advantage in generating new additional revenue for race purses and capital improvements. Churchill Downs and Arlington have experienced heightened competition from racinos in Indiana, Pennsylvania, Delaware and West Virginia whose purses are supplemented by gaming revenue. The opening of the Genting New York Resort at Aqueduct racetrack has enhanced the purse structure at New York racetracks as compared to historical levels. In February 2017, the Rivers Casino & Resort Schenectady opened in New York. Competition from these facilities could harm our ability to attract full fields, which could have a material adverse impact on our business.. We depend on agreements with industry constituents including horsemen and other racetracks. The Interstate Horseracing Act, or IHA, as well as various state racing laws, require that we have written agreements with the horsemen at our racetracks in order to simulcast races, and, in some cases, conduct live racing. Certain industry groups negotiate these agreements on behalf of the horsemen (the \"Horsemen's Groups\"). These agreements provide that we must receive the consent of the Horsemen's Groups at the racetrack conducting live races before we may allow third parties to accept wagers on those races. The agreements between other racetracks and their Horsemen's Groups typically provide that those racetracks must receive consent from the Horsemen's Groups before we can accept wagers on their races. We may not be able to maintain agreements with, or to obtain required consent from, Horsemen's Groups. We currently negotiate formal agreements with the applicable Horsemen's Groups at our racetracks on an annual basis. The failure to maintain agreements with, or obtain consents from, our horsemen on satisfactory terms or the refusal by a Horsemen's Group to consent to third parties accepting wagers on our races or our accepting wagers on third parties' races could have a material adverse impact on our business.. From time to time, the Thoroughbred Owners of California, the Horsemen's Group representing horsemen in California, the Florida Horsemen's Benevolent and Protective Association, Inc. (the \"FHBPA\"), which represents horsemen in Florida, and the Kentucky Horsemen's Benevolent and Protective Association have withheld their consent to send or receive racing signals among racetracks. Failure to receive the consent of these Horsemen's Groups for new and renewing simulcast agreements could have a material adverse impact on our business.. We also have written agreements with the Horsemen's Groups with regards to the proceeds of gaming machines in Louisiana and Florida. Florida law requires Calder Casino to have an agreement with the FHBPA governing the contribution of a portion of revenue from slot machine gaming to purses on live thoroughbred races conducted by TSG at Calder and an agreement with the Florida Thoroughbred Breeders and Owners Association governing the contribution of a portion of revenue from slot machine gaming to breeders' stallion and special racing awards on live thoroughbred races conducted by TSG at Calder before Calder can receive a license to conduct slot machine gaming.. 24. We have agreements with other racetracks for the distribution of racing content through both the import of other racetracks' signals for wagering at our properties and the export of our racing signal for wagering at other racetracks' facilities. From time to time, we are unable to reach agreements on terms acceptable to us. As a result, we may be unable to distribute our racing content to other locations or to receive other racetracks' racing content for wagering at our racetracks. The inability to distribute our racing content could have a material adverse impact on our business.. Horseracing is an inherently dangerous sport and our racetracks are subject to personal injury litigation. Personal injuries to jockeys may occur during races or daily workouts. We carry jockey accident insurance at each of our racetracks to cover such injuries; however, there are certain exclusions to our insurance coverage, and we are still subject to litigation from injured participants. We renew our insurance policies on an annual basis. The cost of coverage may become so high that we may need to further reduce our policy limits or agree to certain exclusions from our coverage. Our results may be affected by the outcome of litigation, as this litigation could be costly and time consuming and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations.. Our business depends on utilizing and providing totalisator services. Our customers utilize information provided by United Tote and other totalisator companies that accumulates wagers, records sales, calculates payoffs and displays wagering data in a secure manner to patrons who wager on our horseraces. The failure to keep technology current could limit our ability to serve patrons effectively, limit our ability to develop new forms of wagering and/or affect the security of the wagering process, thus affecting patron confidence in our product. A perceived lack of integrity in the wagering systems could result in a decline in bettor confidence and could lead to a decline in the amount wagered on horseracing. A totalisator system failure could cause a considerable loss of revenue if betting machines are unavailable for a significant period of time or during an event with high betting volume.. United Tote also has licenses and contracts to provide totalisator services to a significant number of racetracks, OTBs and other pari-mutuel wagering businesses. Its totalisator systems provide wagering data to the industry in a secure manner. Errors by United Tote technology or personnel may subject us to liabilities, including financial penalties under our totalisator service contracts which could have a material adverse impact on our business.. Inclement weather and other conditions may affect our ability to conduct live racing. We conduct our racing business at three thoroughbred racetracks: Churchill Downs, Fair Grounds and Arlington; and, through separate joint ventures and equity investments, at three harness racetracks: Miami Valley, Ocean Downs, and Saratoga Harness. A significant portion of our racing revenue is generated during the Kentucky Oaks and Kentucky Derby week. If a business interruption were to occur and continue for a significant length of time at any of our racetracks, particularly one occurring at Churchill Downs at a time that would affect the Kentucky Oaks or Kentucky Derby, it could have a material adverse impact on our business.. Since horseracing is conducted outdoors, unfavorable weather conditions, including extremely high and low temperatures, heavy rains, high winds, storms, tornadoes and hurricanes, could cause events to be canceled and/or attendance to be lower, resulting in reduced wagering. Our operations are subject to reduced patronage, disruptions or complete cessation of operations due to weather conditions, natural disasters and other casualties. If a business interruption were to occur due to inclement weather and continue for a significant length of time at any of our racetracks, it could have a material adverse impact on our business.. Our racing business faces significant competition, and we expect competition levels to increase. All of our racetracks face competition from a variety of sources, including spectator sports and other entertainment and gaming options.  Competitive gaming activities include traditional and Native American casinos, VLTs, state-sponsored lotteries and other forms of legalized and non-legalized gaming in the U.S. and other jurisdictions.. All of our racetracks face competition in the simulcast market.  In 2017, approximately 37,000 thoroughbred horse races were conducted in the United States.  We hosted approximately 2,200 races, or about 5.9% of the total.  As a content provider, we compete for wagering dollars in the simulcast market with other racetracks conducting races at or near the same times as our races.  As a racetrack operator, we also compete with other racetracks running live meets at or near the same time as our horse races.  In recent years, this competition has increased as more states have allowed additional, automated gaming activities, such as slot machines at racetracks with mandatory purse contributions.. Competition from web-based businesses presents additional challenges for our racing business. Unlike most online and web-based gaming companies, our racetracks require significant and ongoing capital expenditures for both continued operations and expansion. Our racing business also faces significantly greater operating costs compared to costs borne by online and web-based gaming companies. Our racing business cannot offer the same number of gaming options as online and Internet-based gaming companies. These companies may divert wagering dollars from pari-mutuel wagering venues, such as our racetracks. Our inability to compete successfully with these competitors could have a material adverse impact on our business.. 25. Our racing operations are highly regulated, and changes in the regulatory environment could adversely affect our business. Our racing business is subject to extensive state and local regulation, and we depend on continued state approval of legalized gaming in states where we operate. Our wagering and racing facilities must meet the licensing requirements of various regulatory authorities, including authorities in Kentucky, Illinois, Louisiana, Florida, Ohio, Maryland and New York. To date, we have obtained all governmental licenses, registrations, permits and approvals necessary for the operation of our racetracks. However, we may be unable to maintain our existing licenses. The failure to attain such licenses in the future or the loss of or material change in our racing business licenses, registrations, permits or approvals may materially limit the number of races we conduct, and could have a material adverse impact on our business.. In addition to licensing requirements, state regulatory authorities can have a significant impact on the operation of our business. In Illinois, the IRB has the authority to designate racetracks as \"host track\" for the purpose of receiving host track revenue generated during periods when no racetrack is conducting live races. Racetracks that are designated as \"host track\" obtain and distribute out of state simulcast signals for the State of Illinois. Under Illinois law, the \"host track\" is entitled to a larger portion of commissions on the related pari-mutuel wagering. Should Arlington cease to be a \"host track\", the loss of hosting revenue could have an adverse impact on our business. Arlington is statutorily entitled to recapture as revenue monies that are otherwise payable to Arlington's purse account. These statutorily or regulatory established revenue sources are subject to change every legislative session, and a reduction or elimination of any of these revenue sources could have an adverse impact on our business.. We are also subject to a variety of other rules and regulations, including zoning, environmental, construction and land-use laws and regulations governing the serving of alcoholic beverages. If we are not in compliance with these laws, it could have a material adverse impact on our business.. Our racing business experiences significant seasonal fluctuations in operating results and a decrease in live racing days may adversely impact our business. We experience significant fluctuations in quarterly and annual operating results due to seasonality and other factors. We have a limited number of live racing days at our racetracks, and the number of live racing days varies from year to year. The number of live racing days may be adversely impacted by factors including inclement weather, our ability to negotiate certain agreements with industry groups (in particular groups working on behalf of horsemen), jockey walkouts and other negotiation issues with independent contractors, and contagious equine disease. The number of live racing days we are able to offer directly affects our results of operations. A significant decrease in the number of live racing days and/or live races offered during our Kentucky Oaks and Kentucky Derby week could have a material adverse impact on our business.. Risks Related to Our Casino Business. Our casino business faces significant competition from brick-and-mortar casinos and other gaming and entertainment alternatives, and we expect competition levels to increase. Our casinos operate in a highly competitive industry with a large number of participants, some of which have financial and other resources that are greater than our resources. Our casino operations face competition from Native American casinos, VLTs, state-sponsored lotteries and other forms of legalized gaming in the U.S. and other jurisdictions. Increased competition in the New York area could provide additional competitive pressure.  We do not enjoy the same access to the gaming public or possess the advertising resources that are available to state-sponsored lotteries or other competitors which may adversely affect our ability to compete effectively with them. Legislators in Florida continue to debate the expansion of Florida gaming to include Las Vegas-style destination resort casinos. Such casinos may be subject to taxation rates lower than the current gaming taxation structure. Should such legislation be enacted, it could have a material adverse impact on our business.. The gaming industry also faces competition from a variety of sources for discretionary consumer spending including spectator sports and other entertainment and gaming options. Web-based interactive gaming and wagering is growing rapidly and affecting competition in our industry as federal regulations on web-based activities are clarified. We anticipate that competition will continue to grow in the web-based interactive gaming and wagering channels because of ease of entry and such increased competition may have an adverse impact on our business.. Our casino business is highly regulated and changes in the regulatory environment could adversely affect our business. Our casino operations exist at the discretion of the states where we conduct business, and are subject to extensive state and local regulation. Like all gaming operators in the jurisdictions in which we operate, we must periodically apply to renew our gaming licenses or registrations and have the suitability of certain of our directors, officers and employees approved. While we have obtained all governmental licenses, registrations, permits and approvals currently necessary for the operation of our gaming facilities, we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain such renewals or approvals in the future, or that we will be able to obtain future approvals that would allow us to expand our gaming operations.. 26. Regulatory authorities also have input into important aspects of our operations, including hours of operation, location or relocation of a facility, numbers and types of machines and loss limits. Regulators may also levy substantial fines against or seize our assets or the assets of our subsidiaries or the people involved in violating gaming laws or regulations. Any of these events could have an adverse impact on our business. The high degree of regulation in the gaming industry is a significant obstacle to our growth strategy.. The development of new casino venues and the expansion of existing facilities is costly and susceptible to delays, cost overruns and other uncertainties. We may decide to develop, construct and open hotels, casinos or other gaming venues in response to opportunities that may arise.  Future development projects and acquisitions may require significant capital commitments, the incurrence of additional debt, the incurrence of contingent liabilities and an increase in amortization expense related to intangible assets which could have a material adverse impact on our business.. The concentration and evolution of the slot machine manufacturing industry or other technological conditions could impose additional costs on us. The majority of our gaming revenue is attributable to slot and video poker machines operated by us at our casinos and wagering facilities. It is important for competitive reasons that we offer the most popular and up-to-date machine games with the latest technology to our guests. In recent years, the prices of new machines have escalated faster than the rate of inflation. In recent years, slot machine manufacturers have frequently refused to sell slot machines featuring the most popular games, instead requiring participating lease arrangements in order to acquire the machines. Participation slot machine leasing arrangements typically require the payment of a fixed daily rental. Such agreements may also include a percentage payment of coin-in or net win. Generally, a participating lease is substantially more expensive over the long term than the cost to purchase a new machine. For competitive reasons, we may be forced to purchase new slot machines or enter into participating lease arrangements that are more expensive than the costs associated with the continued operation of our existing slot machines.. We materially rely on a variety of hardware and software products to maximize revenue and efficiency in our operations. Technology in the gaming industry is developing rapidly, and we may need to invest substantial amounts to acquire the most current gaming and hotel technology and equipment in order to remain competitive in the markets in which we operate. We rely on a limited number of vendors to provide video poker and slot machines and any loss of our equipment suppliers could impact our operations. Ensuring the successful implementation and maintenance of any new technology acquired is an additional risk.. Our business may be adversely affected by legislation prohibiting tobacco smoking.. Legislation in various forms to ban indoor tobacco smoking in public places has been enacted or introduced in many states and local jurisdictions, including in or near jurisdictions in which we operate. The smoking bans and restrictions have negatively impacted our business in New Orleans, where the New Orleans City Council unanimously approved an ordinance prohibiting smoking in casinos, bars and restaurants beginning in 2015. The enactment of similar legislation in other areas where we operate may adversely affect our business.. Risks Related to Our TwinSpires Business. Our mobile and online wagering business is highly regulated and changes in the regulatory environment could adversely affect our business. TwinSpires.com, our mobile and online wagering business, accepts advance deposit wagers from customers of certain states who set up and fund an account from which they may place wagers via telephone, mobile device or through the Internet. The mobile and online wagering business is heavily regulated, and laws governing advance deposit wagering vary from state to state. Some states have expressly authorized advance deposit wagering by residents, some states have expressly prohibited pari-mutuel wagering and/or advance deposit wagering and other states have expressly authorized pari-mutuel wagering but have neither expressly authorized nor expressly prohibited residents of the state from placing wagers through advance deposit wagering hubs located in different states. We believe that a mobile and online wagering business may open accounts on behalf of and accept wagering instructions from residents of states where pari-mutuel wagering is legal and where providing wagering instructions to advance deposit wagering businesses in other states is not expressly prohibited by statute, regulations, or other governmental restrictions. However, state attorneys general, regulators, and other law enforcement officials may interpret state gaming laws, federal statutes, constitutional principles, and doctrines, and the related regulations in a different manner than we do. In the past, certain state attorneys general and other law enforcement officials have expressed concern over the legality of interstate advance deposit wagering.. Our expansion opportunities with respect to advance deposit wagering may be limited unless more states amend their laws or regulations to permit advance deposit wagering. Conversely, if states take affirmative action to make advance deposit wagering expressly unlawful, this could have a material adverse impact on our business. Previously existing advance deposit wagering regulations in Illinois expired on December 31, 2012, and we ceased accepting wagers from Illinois residents in January 2013. 27. until Illinois advance deposit wagering regulations were extended in June 2013. We ceased accepting wagers from Texas residents in September 2013 due to the enforcement of an existing Texas law prohibiting advance deposit wagering. Regulatory and legislative processes can be lengthy, costly and uncertain. We may not be successful in lobbying state legislatures or regulatory bodies to obtain or renew required legislation, licenses, registrations, permits and approvals necessary to facilitate the operation or expansion of our mobile and online wagering business. From time to time, the United States Congress has considered legislation that would either inhibit or restrict Internet gambling in general or inhibit or restrict the use of certain financial instruments, including credit cards, to provide funds for advance deposit wagering.. Many states have considered and are considering interactive and Internet gaming legislation and regulations which may inhibit our ability to do business in such states. Anti-gaming conclusions and recommendations of other governmental or quasi-governmental bodies could form the basis for new laws, regulations, and enforcement policies that could have a material adverse impact on our business. The extensive regulation by both state and federal authorities of gaming activities also can be significantly affected by changes in the political climate and changes in economic and regulatory policies. Such effects could have a material adverse impact to the success of our advance deposit wagering operations.. Our mobile and online wagering business faces strong competition and we expect competition levels to increase. Our mobile and online wagering business is sensitive to changes and improvements to technology and new products and faces strong competition from other web-based interactive gaming and wagering businesses. Our ability to develop, implement and react to new technology and products for our mobile and online wagering business is a key factor in our ability to compete with other advance deposit wagering businesses. Some of our competitors may have greater resources than we do. We anticipate increased competition in our mobile and online business from various other forms of online gaming.. Our inability to retain our core customer base or our failure to attract new customers could harm our business. We utilize technology and marketing relationships to retain current customers and attract new customers. If we are unable to retain our core customer base through robust content offerings and other popular features, if we lose customers to our competitors, or if we fail to attract new customers, our businesses would fail to grow or would be adversely affected.. Our mobile and online wagering business is subject to a variety of U.S. and foreign laws, many of which are unsettled and still developing and which could subject us to claims or otherwise harm our business. We are subject to a variety of laws in the United States and abroad, including laws regarding gaming, consumer protection and intellectual property that are continuously evolving and developing. The scope and interpretation of the laws that are or may be applicable to us are often uncertain and may be conflicting. Laws relating to the liability of providers of online services for activities of users and other third parties are currently being tested by a number of claims, including actions based on invasion of privacy and other torts, unfair competition, copyright and trademark infringement, and other theories. It is also likely that as our business grows and evolves we will become subject to laws and regulations in additional jurisdictions.. If we are not able to comply with these laws or regulations or if we become liable under these or new laws or regulations, we could be directly harmed, and we may be forced to implement new measures to reduce our exposure to this liability. This may require us to expend substantial resources or to modify our online services which could harm our business. The increased attention focused upon liability issues as a result of lawsuits and legislative proposals could harm our reputation or otherwise impact the growth of our business.. Failure to comply with laws requiring us to block access to certain individuals, based upon geographic location, may result in legal penalties or impairment to our ability to offer our mobile and online wagering products, in general. Individuals in jurisdictions in which online real money gaming is illegal may nonetheless seek to engage our online real money gaming products. While we take steps to block access by individuals in such jurisdictions, those steps may be unsuccessful. In the event that individuals in jurisdictions in which online real money gaming is illegal engage our online real money gaming systems, we may be subject to criminal sanctions, regulatory penalties, the loss of existing or future licenses necessary to offer online real money gaming or other legal liabilities, any one of which could have a material adverse impact on our businesses. Gambling laws and regulations in many jurisdictions require gaming industry participants to maintain strict compliance with various laws and regulations. If we are unsuccessful in blocking access to our online real money gaming products by individuals in a jurisdiction where such products are illegal, we could lose or be prevented from obtaining a license necessary to offer online real money gaming in a jurisdiction in which such products are legal."
