[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating us.  Our business, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations could be materially affected by any of these risks.. Risk Factors Related to our Business and Operations. The Company operates in highly competitive industries, and customers may not continue to purchase products or services, which would result in reduced revenue and loss of market share.. The telecommunications industry is very competitive and the Company competes against larger, well-capitalized national providers. Competitors may reduce pricing, create new bundled offerings, or develop new technologies, products or services.  If the Company cannot continue to offer reliable, competitively priced, value-added services, or if the Company does not keep pace with technological advances, competitive forces could adversely affect it through a loss of market share or a decrease in revenue and profit margins.  The Company has lost access lines, and will likely continue to lose them as part of the customer base migrates to competitors.. The Entertainment and Communications segment faces competition from other local exchange carriers, wireless service providers, inter-exchange carriers, and cable, broadband and internet service providers.  Wireless providers, particularly those that provide unlimited wireless voice and data plans with no additional fees for long distance, offer customers a substitution for the Company's services.  The Company believes wireless substitution accounts for the largest portion of its access line losses.  Also, cable competitors that have existing service relationships with CBT's customers offer substitution services, such as VoIP and long distance voice services in the Company's operating areas.  As a result of wireless substitution and increased competition, CBT's legacy voice lines decreased by 15% and long distance subscribers decreased by 7% in 2017 compared to 2016.. Our strategic products also face intense competition from cable operators, other telecom companies and niche fiber companies. Many of our competitors have lower operating costs and access to resources that provide economies of scale that enables them to more aggressively price products.  In addition, they are able to provide products on a much broader scale given their expanded geography of operations. Our competitors are expected to continuously upgrade their service quality and offerings, which could substantially erode the competitive advantage we currently have with our fiber-based products.  These competitive factors could limit the Company's ability to grow revenue and cash flows despite the strategic initiatives implemented.. 11. Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I   Cincinnati Bell Inc.. The Fioptics suite of products also faces competition from a number of different sources, including companies that deliver movies, television shows and other video programming over broadband Internet connections. Increasingly, content owners are utilizing Internet-based delivery of content directly to consumers, some without charging a fee for access to the content. Furthermore, due to consumer electronics innovations, consumers are able to watch such Internet-delivered content on television sets and mobile devices.  Increased customer migration to these non-traditional entertainment products could result in increased Fioptics churn and decreased penetration.  If the Company is unable to effectively implement strategies to attract and retain Fioptics video and high-speed internet subscribers, retain access lines and long distance subscribers, or replace such customers with other sources of revenue, the Company's Entertainment and Communications business will be adversely affected.. The IT Services and Hardware segment competes against numerous other information technology consulting, web-hosting, and computer system integration companies, many of which are large in scope and well-financed.  This market is rapidly evolving and highly competitive.  Other competitors may consolidate with larger companies or acquire software application vendors or technology providers, which may provide competitive advantages.  The Company believes that many of the participants in this market must grow rapidly and achieve significant scale to compete effectively.  This consolidation could affect prices and other competitive factors in ways that could impede our ability to compete successfully in the market.  The competitive forces described above could have a material adverse impact on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The Company may be unable to grow our revenues and cash flows despite the initiatives we have implemented.. We must produce adequate revenues and cash flows that, when combined with cash on hand and funds available under our revolving credit facilities, will be sufficient to service our debt, fund our capital expenditures, pay our taxes, fund our pension and other employee benefit obligations and pay preferred dividends pursuant to our dividend policy.  We have identified some potential areas of opportunity and implemented several growth initiatives, including increasing marketing promotions and related expenditures and launching new products and services with a focus on areas that are growing such as Fioptics, other fiber-based service offerings and IT solutions.  We cannot be assured that these opportunities will be successful or that these initiatives will improve our financial position or our results of operations.. Failure to anticipate the need for and introduce new products and services or to compete with new technologies may compromise the Company's success in the telecommunications industry.. The Company's success depends, in part, on being able to anticipate the needs of current and future business, carrier and residential customers.  The Company seeks to meet these needs through new product introductions, service quality and technological improvements.  New products and services are important to the Company's success because its industry is technologically driven, such that new technologies can offer alternatives to the Company's existing services.  The development of new technologies and products could accelerate the Company's loss of access lines or limit the growth from its strategic products, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company's revenue, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. The Company's access lines, which generate a significant portion of its cash flows and profits, are decreasing in number.  If the Company continues to experience access line losses similar to the past several years, its revenues, earnings and cash flows from operations may be adversely impacted.. The Company generates a substantial portion of its revenues by delivering voice and data services over access lines.  The Company's local telecommunications subsidiary, CBT, has experienced substantial access line losses over the past several years due to a number of factors, including wireless and broadband substitution and increased competition.  The Company expects access line losses to continue into the foreseeable future.  Failure to retain access lines without replacing such losses with an alternative source of revenue would adversely impact the Company's revenues, earnings and cash flow from operations.. The Company has provided alternative sources of revenue by way of our strategic products; however, these products may generate lower profit margins than our traditional services.  In addition, as a larger portion of our customer base has already migrated to these new product offerings, a decreased growth rate can be expected. Moreover, we cannot provide assurance that the revenues generated from our new offerings will offset revenue losses from the reduced sales of our legacy products or that our new strategic offerings will be as successful as anticipated.. 12. Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I   Cincinnati Bell Inc.. Negotiations with the providers of content for our video programming may not be successful, potentially resulting in our inability to carry certain programming channels, which could result in the loss of subscribers. In addition, due to the influence of some content providers, we may be forced to pay higher rates for some content, resulting in increased costs.. We must negotiate with the content owners of the programming that we carry.  These content owners are the exclusive provider of the channels they offer.  If we are unable to reach a mutually-agreed upon contract with a content owner, our existing agreements to carry this content may not be renewed, resulting in the blackout of these channels.  The loss of content could result in our loss of customers who place a high value on the particular content that is lost.  In addition, many content providers own multiple channels. As a result, we typically have to negotiate the pricing for multiple channels rather than one, and carry and pay for content that customers do not associate much value, in order to have access to other content that customers do associate value.  Some of our competitors have materially larger scale than we do, and may, as a result, be better positioned than we are in such negotiations.   As a result of these factors, the expense of content may continue to increase, and have a material adverse impact on the Company's results of operations and cash flows.. The Company's failure to meet performance standards under its agreements could result in customers terminating their relationships with the Company or customers being entitled to receive financial compensation, which would lead to reduced revenues and/or increased costs.. The Company's agreements with its customers contain various requirements regarding performance and levels of service.  If the Company fails to provide the levels of service or performance required by its agreements, customers may be able to receive service credits to their accounts and other financial compensation, and also may be able to terminate their relationship with the Company.  In order to provide these levels of services, the Company is required to protect against human error, natural disasters, equipment failure, power failure, sabotage and vandalism, and have disaster recovery plans available for disruption of services.  The failure to address these or other events may result in a disruption of services.  In addition, any inability to meet service level commitments, or other performance standards, could reduce the confidence of customers.  Decreased customer confidence could impair the Company's ability to attract and retain customers, which could adversely affect the Company's ability to generate revenues and operating results.. The Company generates a substantial portion of its revenue by serving a limited geographic area.. The Company generates a substantial portion of its revenue by serving customers in Greater Cincinnati and Dayton, Ohio. An economic downturn or natural disaster occurring in this limited operating territory would have a disproportionate effect on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows compared to similar companies of a national scope and similar companies operating in different geographic areas.. A large customer accounts for a significant portion of the Company's revenues and accounts receivable.  The loss or significant reduction in business from this customer would cause operating revenues to decline and could negatively impact profitability and cash flows.. During 2016 and 2015 GE contributed greater than 10% of consolidated revenue.  As a result of this concentration, the Company's results of operations and financial condition could be materially affected if the Company lost this customer or if services purchased were significantly reduced.  If GE were to default on its accounts receivable obligations, the Company would be exposed to potentially significant losses in excess of the provisions established.  This would also negatively impact the available borrowing capacity under the accounts receivable securitization facility (\"Receivables Facility\").. Maintaining the Company's telecommunications networks requires significant capital expenditures, and the Company's inability or failure to maintain its telecommunications networks could have a material impact on its market share and ability to generate revenue.. Over the past several years, the Company has improved its wireline network through increased capital expenditures for fiber optic cable in areas of its operating network.  The Company intends to continue its capital expenditures for fiber optic cable.. In order to provide appropriate levels of service to the Company's customers, the network infrastructure must be protected against damage from human error, natural disasters, unexpected equipment failure, power loss or telecommunications failures, terrorism, sabotage or other intentional acts of vandalism.  The Company's networks may not address all of the problems that may be encountered in the event of a disaster or other unanticipated problems, which may result in disruption of service to customers.. 13. Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I   Cincinnati Bell Inc.. The Company may also incur significant additional capital expenditures as a result of unanticipated developments, regulatory changes and other events that impact the business.. Increases in broadband usage may cause network capacity limitations, resulting in service disruptions or reduced capacity for customers.. Video streaming services and peer-to-peer file sharing applications use significantly more bandwidth than traditional Internet activity such as web browsing and email.  As utilization rates and availability of these services continue to grow, our high-speed Internet customers may use much more bandwidth than in the past. If this occurs, we could be required to make significant capital expenditures to increase network capacity in order to avoid service disruptions or reduced capacity for customers.. We may not be able to recover the costs of the necessary network investments. This could result in an adverse impact to our results of operations and financial condition.. We may be liable for the material that content providers distribute over our networks.. The law relating to the liability of private network operators for information carried on, stored or disseminated through their networks is still unsettled. As such, we could be exposed to legal claims relating to content disseminated on our networks. Claims could challenge the accuracy of materials on our network or could involve matters such as defamation, invasion of privacy or copyright infringement. If we need to take costly measures to reduce our exposure to these risks or are required to defend ourselves against such claims, our financial results would be negatively affected.. Cyber attacks, including on our vendors, or other breaches of network or other information technology security, could have an adverse effect on our business.. Cyber attacks or other breaches of network or information technology security may cause equipment failures or disruptions to our operations.  Our inability to operate our wireline networks as a result of such events, even for a limited period of time, may result in significant expenses and/or loss of market share to other communications providers.  In addition, the potential liabilities associated with these events could exceed the insurance coverage we maintain.  Cyber attacks, which include the use of malware, computer viruses and other means for disruption or unauthorized access, have increased in frequency, scope and potential harm in recent years.  While, to date, we have not been subject to cyber attacks or other cyber incidents which, individually or in the aggregate, have been material to our operations or financial condition, the preventative actions we take to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information technology and networks may be insufficient to repel a major cyber attack in the future.  The costs associated with a major cyber attack could include material incentives offered to existing customers and business partners to retain their business, increased expenditures on cyber security measures, lost revenues from business interruption, litigation and damage to our reputation.  If we fail to prevent the theft of valuable information such as financial data, sensitive information about the Company and intellectual property, or if we fail to protect the privacy of customer and employee confidential data against breaches of network or information technology security, it could result in damage to our reputation, which could adversely impact customer and investor confidence.  Any of these occurrences could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Natural disasters, terrorist acts or acts of war could cause damage to our infrastructure and result in significant disruptions to our operations.. Our business operations are subject to interruption by natural disasters, power outages, terrorist attacks, other hostile acts and events beyond our control.  Such events could cause significant damage to our infrastructure, resulting in degradation or disruption of service to our customers.  The potential liabilities associated with these events could exceed the insurance coverage we maintain.  Our system redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities.  These events could also damage the infrastructure of suppliers that provide us with the equipment and services we need to operate our business and provide products to our customers.  A natural disaster or other event causing significant physical damage could cause us to experience substantial losses resulting in significant recovery time and expenditures to resume operations.  In addition, these occurrences could result in lost revenues from business interruption as well as damage to our reputation.. 14. Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I   Cincinnati Bell Inc.. The regulation of the Company's businesses by federal and state authorities may, among other things, place the Company at a competitive disadvantage, restrict its ability to price its products and services, and threaten its operating licenses.. Several of the Company's subsidiaries are subject to regulatory oversight of varying degrees at both the state and federal levels, which may differ from the regulatory scrutiny faced by the Company's competitors.  A significant portion of CBT's revenue is derived from pricing plans that are subject to regulatory review and approval.  These regulated pricing plans limit the rates CBT charges for some services while the competition has typically been able to set rates for services with limited or no restriction.  In the future, regulatory initiatives that would put CBT at a competitive disadvantage or mandate lower rates for its services would result in lower profitability and cash flows for the Company.  In addition, different regulatory interpretations of existing regulations or guidelines may affect the Company's revenues and expenses in future periods.. At the federal level, CBT is subject to the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (the \"1996 Act\"), including the rules subsequently adopted by the Federal Communications Commission (\"FCC\") to implement the 1996 Act, which has impacted CBT's in-territory local exchange operations in the form of greater competition.  At the state level, CBT conducts local exchange operations in portions of Ohio, Kentucky, and Indiana, and, consequently, is subject to regulation by the Public Utilities Commissions in those states.  Various regulatory decisions or initiatives at the federal or state level may from time to time have a negative impact on CBT's ability to compete in its markets.. There are currently many regulatory actions under way and being contemplated by federal and state authorities regarding issues that could result in significant changes to the business conditions in the telecommunications industry.  In addition, in connection with our Internet access offerings, we could become subject to laws and regulations as they are adopted or applied to the Internet. There is currently only limited regulation applicable to these services. As the significance of the Internet continues to grow, federal, state and local governments may pass laws and adopt rules and regulations or apply existing laws and regulations to the Internet (including Internet access services).  Related matters are currently under consideration in both federal and state legislative and regulatory bodies.  We cannot provide any assurances that changes in current or future regulations adopted by the FCC or state regulators, or other legislative, administrative, or judicial initiatives relating to the telecommunications industry, will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. From time to time, different regulatory agencies conduct audits to ensure that the Company is in compliance with the respective regulations.  The Company could be subject to fines and penalties if found to be out of compliance with these regulations, and these fines and penalties could be material to the Company's financial condition.. The Company depends on a number of third-party providers, and the loss of, or problems with, one or more of these providers may impede the Company's growth or cause it to lose customers.. The Company depends on third-party providers to supply products and services.  For example, many of the Company's information technology and call center functions are performed by third-party providers, and network equipment is purchased from and maintained by vendors.  The loss of, or problems with, one or more of these third-party providers may result in an adverse effect on our ability to provide products and services to our customers and on our results of operations and financial condition.. A failure of back-office information technology systems could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. The efficient operation of the Company's business depends on back-office information technology systems.  The Company relies on back-office information technology systems to effectively manage customer billing, business data, communications, supply chain, order entry and fulfillment and other business processes.  A failure of the Company's information technology systems to perform as anticipated could disrupt the Company's business and result in a failure to collect accounts receivable, transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, and the loss of sales and customers, causing the Company's reputation and results of operations to suffer.  In addition, information technology systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond the Company's control, including fire, natural disasters, systems failures, security breaches and viruses. Any such damage or interruption could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business.. 15. Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I   Cincinnati Bell Inc.. If the Company fails to extend or renegotiate its collective bargaining agreements with its labor union when they expire, or if its unionized employees were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, the Company's business and operating results could be materially harmed.. The Company is a party to collective bargaining agreements with its labor union, which represents approximately 25% of its employees. No assurance can be given that the Company will be able to successfully extend or renegotiate its collective bargaining agreements in the future. If the Company fails to extend or renegotiate its collective bargaining agreements, if disputes with its union arise, or if its unionized workers engage in a strike or a work stoppage, the Company could experience a significant disruption of operations or incur higher ongoing labor costs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on the business.. The loss of any of the senior management team or attrition among key sales associates could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The Company's success will continue to depend, to a significant extent, on its senior management team and key sales associates. Senior management has specific knowledge relating to the Company and the industry that would be difficult to replace.  The loss of key sales associates could hinder the Company's ability to continue to benefit from long-standing relationships with customers.  The Company cannot provide any assurance that it will be able to retain the current senior management team or key sales associates.  The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Risks Related to our Indebtedness. The Company's debt could limit its ability to fund operations, raise additional capital, and fulfill its obligations, which, in turn, would have a material adverse effect on its businesses and prospects generally.. As of December 31, 2017, the Company and its subsidiaries had outstanding indebtedness of $1,747.7 million, on which it incurred $85.2 million of interest expense in 2017, and had a total shareowners' deficit of $143.1 million. In October 2017, the Company entered into a new Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement provides for (i) a five year $200 million senior secured revolving credit facility including both a letter of credit subfacility of up to $30 million and a swingline loan subfacility of up to $25 million (the \"Revolving Credit Facility\") and (ii) a seven-year $600 million senior secured term loan facility (the \"Tranche B Term Loan due 2024\").  At December 31, 2017, the Company and its subsidiaries had $101.0 million of borrowing availability under its Receivables Facility and had the ability to borrow up to an additional $200.0 million under the Revolving Credit Facility, subject to compliance with certain conditions.. The Company's debt has important consequences, including the following:. •   the Company is required to use a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on its debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements; •   there is a variable interest rate on a portion of its debt which will increase if the market interest rates increase; •   the Company's debt increases its vulnerability to adverse changes in the credit markets, which adverse changes could increase the Company's borrowing costs and limit the availability of financing; •   the Company's debt service obligations limit its flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in its business and the industries in which it operates; •   the Company's level of debt and shareowners' deficit may restrict it from raising additional financing on satisfactory terms to fund working capital, capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements; and •   the Company's debt instruments contains limitations on the Company and require the Company to comply with specified financial ratios and other restrictive covenants. Failure to comply with these covenants, if not cured or waived, could limit availability to the cash required to fund the Company's operations and general obligations and could result in the Company's dissolution, bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization.. The Company's creditors and preferred stockholders have claims that are superior to claims of the holders of the Company's common stock.  Accordingly, in the event of the Company's dissolution, bankruptcy, liquidation, or reorganization, payment is first made on the claims of creditors of the Company and its subsidiaries, then preferred stockholders, and finally, if amounts are available, to holders of the Company's common stock.. 16. Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I   Cincinnati Bell Inc.. The Credit Agreement, the indenture governing the Company's notes due 2024, the indenture governing the Company's notes due 2025 and other indebtedness impose significant restrictions on the Company.. The Company's debt instruments impose, and the terms of any future debt may impose, operating and other restrictions on the Company.  These restrictions affect, and in many respects limit or prohibit, among other things, the Company's ability to:. •   incur additional indebtedness; •   create liens; •   make investments; •   enter into transactions with affiliates; •   sell assets; •   guarantee indebtedness; •   declare or pay dividends or make other distributions to shareholders; •   repurchase equity interests; •   redeem debt that is junior in right of payment to such indebtedness; •   enter into agreements that restrict dividends or other payments from subsidiaries; •   issue or sell capital stock of certain of its subsidiaries; •   consolidate, merge, or transfer all or substantially all of its assets and the assets of its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis; and •   change its fiscal year. In addition, the Company's Credit Agreement and debt instruments include restrictive covenants that may materially limit the Company's ability to prepay debt and redeem preferred stock.  The agreements governing the Credit Agreement also require the Company to achieve and maintain compliance with specified financial ratios.. The restrictions contained in the terms of the Credit Agreement and its other debt instruments could:. •   limit the Company's ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet capital needs or otherwise restrict the Company's activities or business plans; and •   adversely affect the Company's ability to finance its operations, strategic acquisitions, investments or alliances, other capital needs, or to engage in other business activities that would be in its interest.. A breach of any of the debt's restrictive covenants or the Company's inability to comply with the required financial ratios would result in a default under some or all of the debt agreements.  During the occurrence and continuance of a default, lenders may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. Additionally, under the Credit Agreement, the lenders may elect not to provide loans under the Revolving Credit Facility until such default is cured or waived.  The Company's debt instruments also contain cross-acceleration provisions, which generally cause each instrument to be subject to early repayment of outstanding principal and related interest upon a qualifying acceleration of any other debt instrument. Failure to comply with these covenants, if not cured or waived, would limit the cash available to the Company required to fund operations and its general obligations and could result in the Company's dissolution, bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization.. The Company depends on its Revolving Credit Facility and Receivables Facility to provide for its short-term financing requirements in excess of amounts generated by operations, and the availability of those funds may be reduced or limited.. The Company depends on the Revolving Credit Facility and its Receivables Facility to provide for short-term financing requirements in excess of amounts generated by operations.  The Revolving Credit Facility has a maturity date of October 2022.  The Receivables Facility has a termination date of May 2019, and is subject to renewal every 364 days, with the next renewal occurring in May 2018.. The Company's ability to borrow under its Revolving Credit Facility is subject to the Company's compliance with covenants, including covenants requiring compliance with specified financial ratios.  Failure to satisfy these covenants would constrain or prohibit its ability to borrow under these facilities.. 17. Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I   Cincinnati Bell Inc.. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility, leaving $200.0 million in additional borrowing availability under this facility.  The $200.0 million available under the Revolving Credit Facility is funded by various financial institutions.  If one or more of these banks is not able to fulfill its funding obligations, the Company's financial condition could be adversely affected.. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had a total borrowing capacity of $107.3 million on a maximum borrowing capacity of $120.0 million on its Receivables Facility. At that date, there were no outstanding borrowings and $6.3 million of outstanding letters of credit. The available borrowing capacity is calculated monthly based on the amount, and quality, of outstanding accounts receivable, and thus may be lower than the maximum borrowing limit.  If the quality of the Company's accounts receivables deteriorates, this will negatively impact the available capacity under this facility.  As of December 31, 2017, the Company had $101.0 million of borrowing capacity remaining under its Receivables Facility.. The servicing of the Company's indebtedness is dependent on its ability to generate cash, which could be impacted by many factors beyond its control.. The Company's ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors, many of which are beyond its control.  The Company cannot provide assurance that its business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that additional sources of debt financing will be available, or that future borrowings will be available under its Revolving Credit Facility Credit or Receivables Facility, in each case, in amounts sufficient to enable the Company to service its indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs.  If the Company cannot service its indebtedness, it will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing indebtedness, or seeking additional equity capital, which may adversely affect its shareholders, debt holders and customers.  The Company may not be able to negotiate remedies on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.  In addition, the terms of existing or future debt instruments may restrict the Company from adopting any of these alternatives.  The Company's inability to generate the necessary cash flows could result in its dissolution, bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization.. The Company depends on the receipt of dividends or other intercompany transfers from its subsidiaries and investments.. Virtually all of the Company's operations are conducted through its subsidiaries and most of the Company's debt is held at the parent company.  Certain of the Company's material subsidiaries are subject to regulatory authority which may potentially limit the ability of such subsidiaries to distribute funds or assets.  If any of the Company's subsidiaries were to be prohibited from paying dividends or making distributions, the Company may not be able to make the scheduled interest and principal repayments on its debt.  This failure would have a material adverse effect on the Company's liquidity and the trading price of the Company's common stock, preferred stock, and debt instruments, which could result in its dissolution, bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization.. 18. Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I   Cincinnati Bell Inc.. Risks Relating to the Merger with Hawaiian Telcom. The merger (the \"merger\") of Hawaiian Telcom Holdco, Inc. (\"Hawaiian Telcom\") into a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company is subject to the receipt of clearances or approvals from various regulatory authorities, which may impose. conditions that could have an adverse effect on the Company following the closing of the merger (the \"combined company\") or, if not obtained, could prevent completion of the merger.. Before the merger may be completed, clearances or approvals must be obtained from various regulatory entities, including the FCC, and the Hawaii Public Utilities Commission. There can be no assurance that all of these required approvals and clearances will be obtained, or will be obtained on a timely basis. In deciding whether to grant regulatory clearances, the relevant governmental entities will consider, among other things, the effect of the merger on competition within their relevant jurisdiction. The terms and conditions of the approvals that are granted may impose requirements, limitations, incremental cost, or place restrictions on the conduct of the combined company's business. The agreement and plan of merger dated July 9, 2017 (the \"merger agreement\"), among Hawaiian Telcom, the Company and Twin Acquisition Corp. may require the Company and Hawaiian Telcom to comply with conditions imposed by regulatory entities, and neither company is required to take any action with respect to obtaining regulatory approval that, individually or in the aggregate, would be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect on either Hawaiian Telcom or the Company. There can be no assurance that regulators will not impose conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions and that such conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions will not have the effect of delaying completion of the merger, imposing additional material costs on or materially limiting the revenues of the combined company following the merger or otherwise reduce the anticipated benefits of the merger. In addition, the Company cannot provide assurance that any such conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions will not result in the delay or abandonment of the merger.. The merger is subject to conditions, including certain conditions that may not be satisfied or completed on a timely basis, if at all. Any delay in completing the merger may reduce or eliminate the benefits expected.. In addition to the regulatory clearances and approvals, the merger is subject to certain other conditions beyond the control of the Company that may prevent, delay, or otherwise materially adversely affect completion of the merger. The Company cannot predict whether and when these other conditions will be satisfied. The requirements for satisfying such conditions could delay completion of the merger for a period of time, reducing or eliminating some or all anticipated benefits of the merger, or prevent completion of the merger from occurring at all.. The pendency of the merger could materially adversely affect the future business and operations of the Company and/or result in a loss of employees for the Company.. In connection with the pending merger, while it is not expected by the management of the Company, it is possible that some customers, suppliers and other persons with whom the Company has a business relationship may delay or defer certain business decisions, which could negatively impact revenues, earnings and cash flows of the Company, as well as the market prices of the Company's common shares, regardless of whether the merger is completed. Similarly, current and prospective employees of the Company may experience uncertainty about their future roles within the combined company following completion of the merger, which may materially adversely affect the ability of the Company to attract and retain key employees.. The pursuit of the merger and the preparation for the integration may place a significant burden on the Company's management and internal resources. Any significant diversion of management attention away from ongoing business and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could affect the Company's financial results.. In addition, the merger agreement restricts the Company, on the one hand, and Hawaiian Telcom, on the other, without the other party's consent, from making certain acquisitions and dispositions and taking other specified actions while the merger is pending. These restrictions may prevent the Company from pursuing attractive business opportunities and making other changes to its business prior to completion of the merger or termination of the merger agreement.. The Company's shareholders will be diluted by the merger.. The merger will dilute the ownership position of the Company's current shareholders. Cincinnati Bell will issue approximately 7.9 million of the Company's common shares to Hawaiian Telcom stockholders in the merger (including common shares of the Company to be issued in connection with outstanding Hawaiian Telcom equity awards). As a result of these issuances, the Company's current shareholders and Hawaiian Telcom's stockholders are expected to hold approximately 85% and 15%, respectively, of the Company's outstanding common shares immediately following completion of the merger.. 19. Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I   Cincinnati Bell Inc.. Risks Relating to the Combined Company upon Completion of the Merger with Hawaiian Telcom. If completed, the merger may not achieve its intended results, and the Company and Hawaiian Telcom may be unable to successfully integrate their operations.. The Company and Hawaiian Telcom entered into the merger agreement with the expectation that the merger will result in various benefits, including, among other things, expanding the Company's asset base and creating synergies and opportunities for cost savings. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the merger is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the businesses of the Company and Hawaiian Telcom can be integrated in an efficient and effective manner.. It is possible that the integration process could take longer than anticipated and could result in the loss of valuable employees, the disruption of each company's ongoing businesses, processes and systems or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices, policies and compensation arrangements, any of which could adversely affect the combined company's ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. The combined company's results of operations could also be adversely affected by any issues attributable to either company's operations that arise or are based on events or actions that occur prior to the closing of the merger. The companies may have difficulty addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies. The integration process is subject to a number of uncertainties, and no assurance can be given that the anticipated benefits will be realized or, if realized, the timing of their realization. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, or a decrease in the amount of expected revenues, and could adversely affect the combined company's future business, financial condition, operating results and prospects.. The combined company is expected to incur expenses related to the integration of the Company and Hawaiian Telcom.. The combined company is expected to incur expenses in connection with the integration of the Company and Hawaiian Telcom. There are a number of back-office information technology systems, processes and policies that will need to be addressed during the integration. While the Company and Hawaiian Telcom have assumed that a certain level of expenses will be incurred, there are many factors beyond their control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the integration expenses. Moreover, many of the expenses that will be incurred are, by their nature, difficult to estimate accurately. These integration expenses likely will result in the combined company taking charges against earnings following the completion of the merger, and the amount and timing of such charges are uncertain at present.. The future results of the combined company will suffer if the combined company does not effectively manage its expanded operations following the merger.. Following the merger, the size of the business of the combined company will increase significantly beyond the current size of either the Company's or Hawaiian Telcom's business. The combined company's future success depends, in part, upon its ability to manage this expanded business, which could pose substantial challenges for management. There can be no assurances that the combined company will be successful or that it will realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancements and other benefits currently anticipated from the merger.. Uncertainties associated with the merger may cause a loss of management personnel and other key employees, which could adversely affect the future business and operations of the combined company.. The Company and Hawaiian Telcom are dependent on the experience and industry knowledge of their officers and other key employees to execute their business plans. The Company's success until the merger, and the combined company's success after the merger, will depend in part upon the ability of the Company and Hawaiian Telcom to retain key management personnel and other key employees. Current and prospective employees of the Company and Hawaiian Telcom may experience uncertainty about their roles within the combined company following the merger, which may have an adverse effect on the ability of the Company and Hawaiian Telcom to attract or retain key management and other key personnel. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the combined company will be able to attract or retain key management personnel and other key employees of the Company and Hawaiian Telcom to the same extent that the Company and Hawaiian Telcom have previously been able to attract or retain their own employees.. 20. Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I   Cincinnati Bell Inc.. The combined company will have substantial indebtedness following the merger and the credit ratings of the combined company or its subsidiaries may be different from what the companies currently expect.. The Company has obtained new credit facilities under the new Credit Agreement and through its wholly-owned subsidiary has issued senior unsecured notes (the proceeds of which have been deposited into an escrow account pending the closing of the merger) in order to provide funds to (i) refinance its existing credit facilities, (ii) finance in part the cash portion of the merger consideration for the merger with Hawaiian Telcom and fund the purchase price for the acquisition of OnX, (iii) refinance existing indebtedness of Hawaiian Telcom and (iv) pay other costs and expenses incurred in connection with the merger with Hawaiian Telcom, the OnX acquisition and related transactions. Following completion of the merger, the combined company will have substantial indebtedness and the credit ratings of the combined company and its subsidiaries may be different from what the companies currently expect.. This substantial indebtedness may adversely affect the business, financial condition and operating results of the combined company, including:. • making it more difficult for the combined company to satisfy its debt service obligations;. • requiring the combined company to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flows to debt service obligations, thereby potentially reducing the availability of cash flows to pay cash dividends and to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and other general operating requirements;. • limiting the ability of the combined company to obtain additional financing to fund its working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments, debt service obligations and other general operating requirements;. • restricting the combined company from making strategic acquisitions or taking advantage of favorable business opportunities;. • placing the combined company at a relative competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt;. • limiting flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in the businesses and industries in which the combined company operates, which may adversely affect the combined company's operating results and ability to meet its debt service obligations;. • increasing the vulnerability of the combined company to adverse general economic and industry conditions, including changes in interest rates; and. • limiting the ability of the combined company to refinance its indebtedness or increasing the cost of such indebtedness.. If the combined company incurs additional indebtedness following the merger, the risks related to the substantial indebtedness of the combined company may intensify.. The merger may involve unexpected costs, unexpected liabilities or unexpected delays.. The Company currently expects to incur substantial costs and expenses relating directly to the merger, including debt financing and refinancing costs, fees and expenses payable to financial advisors, professional fees and expenses, insurance premium costs, fees and costs relating to regulatory filings and notices, SEC filing fees, printing and mailing costs and other transaction-related costs, fees and expenses. In addition, the merger and post-merger integration process may give rise to unexpected liabilities and costs, including costs associated with the defense and resolution of possible litigation or other claims, which may significantly increase the related costs and expenses incurred by the combined company.. 21. Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I   Cincinnati Bell Inc.. Risks Related to the Acquisition of OnX. The acquisition of OnX may not achieve its intended results, and the Company may be unable to successfully integrate OnX's operations.. The Company completed the acquisition of OnX in October 2017.  The Company entered into the merger agreement with OnX with the expectation that the acquisition will result in various benefits, including, among other things, expanding the Company's asset base and creating synergies and opportunities for cost savings. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of OnX is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the businesses of the Company and OnX can be integrated in an efficient and effective manner.. It is possible that the integration process could take longer than anticipated and could result in the loss of valuable employees, the disruption of each company's ongoing businesses, processes and systems or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices, policies and compensation arrangements, any of which could adversely affect the Company's ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of OnX. The Company's results of operations could also be adversely affected by any issues attributable to either company's operations that arose or are based on events or actions that occurred prior to the closing of the acquisition. The integration process is subject to a number of uncertainties, and no assurance can be given that the anticipated benefits will be realized or, if realized, the timing of their realization. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs or decreases in the amount of expected revenues and could adversely affect the Company's future business, financial condition, operating results and prospects.. Other Risk Factors. The trading price of the Company's common stock may be volatile, and the value of an investment in the Company's common stock may decline.. The market price of the Company's common stock has been volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other things, the risk factors described in this report and other factors beyond the Company's control, such as volatility in equity markets and fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to the Company.. Equity markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the Company's stock price and the market prices of equity securities of many other companies.  These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political, and market conditions, may negatively affect the market price of the Company's stock.. Companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of common shares have periodically been subject to securities class action litigation.  The Company may be the target of this type of litigation in the future.  Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and/or damages and divert management's attention from other business concerns.. The uncertain economic environment, including uncertainty in the U.S. and world securities markets, could impact the Company's business and financial condition.. The uncertain economic environment could have an adverse effect on the Company's business and financial liquidity.  The Company's primary source of cash is customer collections. If economic conditions were to worsen, some customers may cancel services or have difficulty paying their accounts receivable.  These conditions would result in lower revenues and increases in the allowance for doubtful accounts, which would negatively affect the results of operations.  Furthermore, the sales cycle would be further lengthened if business customers slow spending or delay decision-making on the Company's products and services, which would adversely affect revenues.  If competitors lower prices as a result of economic conditions, the Company would also experience pricing pressure.  If the economies of the U.S. and the world deteriorate, this could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 22. Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I   Cincinnati Bell Inc.. The Company's future cash flows could be adversely affected if it is unable to fully realize its deferred tax assets.. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had deferred tax assets of $124.3 million, which are primarily composed of deferred tax assets associated with U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards of $39.3 million, state and local net operating loss carryforwards of $48.0 million, and foreign net operating loss carryforwards of $1.6 million.  The Company has recorded valuation allowances against deferred tax assets related to certain state, local and foreign net operating losses and other deferred tax assets due to the uncertainty of the Company's ability to utilize the assets within the statutory expiration period.  The use of the Company's deferred tax assets enables it to satisfy current and future tax liabilities without the use of the Company's cash resources.  If the Company is unable for any reason to generate sufficient taxable income to fully realize its deferred tax assets, or if the use of its net operating loss carryforwards is limited by Internal Revenue Code Section 382 or similar state statute, the Company's net income, shareowners' deficit and future cash flows would be adversely affected.. Changes in tax laws and regulations, and actions by federal, state and local taxing authorities related to the interpretation and application of such tax laws and regulations, could have a negative impact on the Company's financial results and cash flows.. The Company calculates, collects and remits various federal, state, and local taxes, surcharges, and regulatory fees to numerous federal, state and local governmental authorities, including but not limited to federal Universal Service Fund contributions, sales tax, regulatory fees and use tax on purchases of goods and services used in our business.  Tax laws are subject to change, and new interpretations of how various statutes and regulations should be adhered to are frequently issued.  In many cases, the application of tax laws are uncertain and subject to differing interpretations, especially when evaluated against new technologies and telecommunications services, such as broadband internet access and cloud services.  In the event that we have incorrectly calculated, assessed, or remitted amounts due to governmental authorities, or if revenue and taxing authorities disagree with positions we have taken, we could be subject to additional taxes, fines, penalties, or other adverse actions.  In the event that federal, state, or local municipalities were to significantly increase taxes on good and services used to construct and maintain our network, operations, or provision of services, or seek to impose new taxes, there could be a material adverse impact on financial results.. The Company's interpretation of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 could change, and have an adverse impact on financial results.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"Tax Act\") signed into law on December 22, 2017 has resulted in significant changes to the U.S. Corporate income tax system.  These changes include a federal statutory rate reduction from 35 percent to 21 percent, limitations on the deductibility of interest expense and executive compensation, and elimination of the corporate alternative minimum tax.  The final transition impacts of the Tax Act may differ from the Company's current estimates, possibly materially, due to, among other things, changes in interpretations of the Tax Act, any legislative action taken to address questions that arise because of the Tax Act, any changes in accounting standards for income taxes or related interpretations in response to the Tax Act, or any updates or changes to estimates the Company has utilized to calculate the transition impacts.. Adverse changes in the value of assets or obligations associated with the Company's employee benefit plans could negatively impact shareowners' deficit and liquidity.. The Company sponsors three noncontributory defined benefit pension plans: one for eligible management employees, one for non-management employees, and one supplemental, nonqualified, unfunded plan for certain former executives.  The Company also provides healthcare and group life insurance benefits for eligible retirees.  The Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets indirectly reflect the value of all plan assets and benefit obligations under these plans.  The accounting for employee benefit plans is complex, as is the process of calculating the benefit obligations under the plans. Adverse changes in interest rates or market conditions, among other assumptions and factors, could cause a significant increase in the Company's benefit obligations or a significant decrease of the asset values, without necessarily impacting the Company's net income.  In addition, the Company's benefit obligations could increase significantly if it needs to unfavorably revise the assumptions used to calculate the obligations.  These adverse changes could have a further significant negative impact on the Company's shareowners' deficit.  In addition, with respect to the Company's pension plans, the Company expects to make approximately $10 million of estimated aggregate cash contributions to its qualified pension plans for the years 2018 to 2023.  Additionally, the Company's postretirement costs are adversely affected by increases in medical and prescription drug costs. Further, if there are adverse changes to plan assets or if medical and prescription drug costs increase significantly, the Company could be required to contribute additional material amounts of cash to the plans, or could accelerate the timing of required payments.. 23. Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I   Cincinnati Bell Inc.. Third parties may claim that the Company is infringing upon their intellectual property, and the Company could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products.. The Company may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of its technology, products or services.  Any litigation growing out of third-party patents or other intellectual property claims could be costly and time-consuming and would divert the Company's management and key personnel from its business operations.  The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks.  Resolution of claims of intellectual property infringement might also require the Company to enter into costly license agreements.  Likewise, the Company may not be able to obtain license agreements on acceptable terms.  The Company also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against the development and sale of certain of its products or services.  Further, the Company often relies on licenses of third-party intellectual property for its businesses.  The Company cannot ensure these licenses will be available in the future on favorable terms or at all.. Third parties may infringe upon the Company's intellectual property, and the Company may expend significant resources enforcing its rights or suffer competitive injury.. The Company's success depends in significant part on the competitive advantage it gains from its proprietary technology and other valuable intellectual property assets.  The Company relies on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets protections, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect its intellectual property rights.  If the Company fails to successfully enforce its intellectual property rights, its competitive position could suffer, which could harm its operating results.. The Company may also be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police its intellectual property rights.  The Company may not be able to detect third-party infringements and its competitive position may be harmed before the Company does so.  In addition, competitors may design around the Company's technology or develop competing technologies. Furthermore, some intellectual property rights are licensed to other companies, allowing them to compete with the Company using that intellectual property.. We could be subject to a significant amount of litigation, which could require us to pay significant damages or settlements.. Our business faces a substantial risk of litigation, including, from time to time, patent infringement lawsuits, antitrust class actions, securities class actions, wage and hour class actions, personal injury claims and lawsuits relating to our advertising, sales, billing and collection processes.  We may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits.  In addition, we may be required to pay significant awards and settlements.. The Company could incur significant costs resulting from complying with, or potential violations of, environmental, health and human safety laws.. The Company's operations are subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, health, and human safety, including those governing the management and disposal of, and exposure to, hazardous materials and the cleanup of contamination, and the emission of radio frequencies.  While the Company believes its operations are in substantial compliance with environmental, health, and human safety laws and regulations, as an owner or operator of property, and in connection with the current and historical use of hazardous materials and other operations at its sites, the Company could incur significant costs resulting from complying with or violations of such laws, the imposition of cleanup obligations and third-party suits.  For instance, a number of the Company's sites formerly contained underground storage tanks for the storage of used oil and fuel for back-up generators and vehicles.. 24. Table of ContentsForm 10-K Part I   Cincinnati Bell Inc."
