[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business depends on film production and performance.. Our business depends on both the availability of suitable films for exhibition in our theatres and the success of those films in our markets. Reduced volume of film releases, poor performance of films, the disruption in the production of films due to events such as a strike by directors, writers or actors, a reduction in financing options for the film distributors, or a reduction in the marketing efforts of the film distributors to promote their films could have an adverse effect on our business by resulting in fewer patrons and reduced revenues.. Our results of operations fluctuate on a seasonal basis.. Our results of operations vary from period to period based upon the quantity and quality of the motion pictures that we show in our theatres. The major film distributors generally release the films they anticipate will be most successful during the summer and holiday seasons. Consequently, we typically generate higher revenues during these periods.  The timing of releases, however, has become less pronounced as distributors have begun releasing content more evenly throughout the year.  In our Latin American markets, while Hollywood content has similar release dates as in the U.S., the local holidays and seasons can vary. The unexpected emergence of a successful film during other periods or the failure of an expected success at a key time could alter this seasonality trend. Due to the dependency on the success of films released from one period to the next, results of operations for one period may not be indicative of the results for the following period or the same period in the following year.. 14. A deterioration in relationships with film distributors could adversely affect our ability to obtain commercially successful films.. We rely on the film distributors to supply the films shown in our theatres. The film distribution business is highly concentrated, with seven major film distributors accounting for approximately 89% of U.S. box office revenues and 49 of the top 50 grossing films during 2017. Numerous antitrust cases and consent decrees resulting from the antitrust cases impact the distribution of films. Film distributors license films to exhibitors on a theatre-by-theatre and film-by-film basis. Consequently, we cannot guarantee a supply of films by entering into long-term arrangements with major distributors. We are therefore required to negotiate licenses for each film and for each theatre. A deterioration in our relationship with any of the seven major film distributors could adversely affect our ability to obtain commercially successful films and to negotiate favorable licensing terms for such films, both of which could adversely affect our business and operating results.. We face intense competition for patrons and films which may adversely affect our business.. The motion picture exhibition industry is highly competitive. We compete against local, regional, national and international exhibitors in many of our markets. We compete for both patrons and licensing of films. In markets where we do not face nearby competitive theatres, there is a risk of new theatres being built. The degree of competition for patrons is dependent upon such factors as location, theatre capacity, quality of projection and sound equipment, film showtime availability, customer service quality, products and amenities offered, and ticket prices. The principal competitive factors with respect to film licensing include the theatre's location and its demographics, the condition, capacity and grossing potential of each theatre, and licensing terms. We also face competition from new concept theatres such as dine-in theatres and tavern style theatres that open in close proximity to our conventional theatres. If we are unable to attract patrons or to license successful films, our business may be adversely affected.. An increase in the use of alternative film distribution channels or other competing forms of entertainment may reduce movie theatre attendance and limit revenue growth.. We face competition for patrons from a number of alternative film distribution channels, such as digital downloads, video on-demand, subscription video-on-demand, pay-per-view television, DVDs, network and syndicated television. Some of these distribution channels have seen growth in production in recent years. We also compete with other forms of entertainment, such as family entertainment centers, concerts, theme parks, gaming and sporting events, for our patrons' leisure time and disposable income. A significant increase in popularity of these alternative film distribution channels, competing forms of entertainment or improvements in technologies available at home could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Our results of operations may be impacted by shrinking video and digital release windows.. The average video and digital release window, which represents the time that elapses from the date of a film's theatrical release to the date a film is available to consumers at home, has decreased from six months to approximately ninety days over the past few years. If patrons choose to wait for an in-home release rather than attend a theatre to view the film, it may adversely impact our business and results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. These release windows, which are determined by the studios, may shrink further or be eliminated altogether, which could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. General political, social and economic conditions can adversely affect our attendance.. Our results of operations are dependent on general political, social and economic conditions, and the impact of such conditions on our theatre operating costs and on the willingness of consumers to spend money at movie theatres. If consumers' discretionary income declines during a period of an economic downturn or political uncertainty, our operations could be adversely affected. If theatre operating costs, such as utility costs, increase due to political or economic changes, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Political events, such as terrorist attacks, and health-related epidemics, such as flu outbreaks, could cause people to avoid our theatres or other public places where large crowds are in attendance, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, a natural disaster, such as a hurricane or an earthquake, could impact our ability to operate certain of our theatres, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. 15. Our foreign operations are subject to adverse regulations, economic instability and currency exchange risk.. We have 194 theatres with 1,398 screens in fifteen countries in Latin America. Brazil represented approximately 11% of our consolidated 2017 revenues. Governmental regulation of the motion picture industry in foreign markets differs from that in the U.S. Changes in regulations affecting prices and quota systems requiring the exhibition of locally-produced films may adversely affect our international operations. Our international operations are subject to certain political, economic and other uncertainties not encountered by our domestic operations, including risks of severe economic downturns and high inflation. We also face risks of currency fluctuations, hard currency shortages and controls of foreign currency exchange and cash transfers to the U.S., all of which could have an adverse effect on the results of our operations.. We have substantial long-term lease and debt obligations, which may restrict our ability to fund current and future operations and that restrict our ability to enter into certain transactions.. We have, and will continue to have, significant long-term debt service obligations and long-term lease obligations. As of December 31, 2017, we had $1,817.3 million in long-term debt obligations, $276.7 million in capital lease obligations and $1,747.5 million in long-term operating lease obligations. Our substantial lease and debt obligations pose risk by:. •  requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows to payments on our lease and debt obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other corporate requirements and to pay dividends;. •  impeding our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate purposes;. •  subjecting us to the risk of increased sensitivity to interest rate increases on our variable rate debt, including our borrowings under our senior secured credit facility;. •  limiting our ability to invest in innovations in technology and implement new platforms or concepts in our theatres; and. •  making us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business and competitive pressures and limiting our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our industry or the economy.. Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal and interest with respect to our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate positive cash flows and on our future financial results. Our ability to generate positive cash flows is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We may not be able to continue to generate cash flows at current levels, or guarantee that future borrowings will be available under our senior secured credit facility, in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our lease and debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to take any of these actions, and these actions may not be successful or permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations and these actions may be restricted under the terms of our existing or future debt agreements, including our senior secured credit facility.. If we fail to make any required payment under the agreements governing our leases and indebtedness or fail to comply with the financial and operating covenants contained in them, we would be in default, and as a result, our debt holders would have the ability to require that we immediately repay our outstanding indebtedness and the lenders under our senior secured credit facility could terminate their commitments to lend us money and foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings. We could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. The acceleration of our indebtedness under one agreement may permit acceleration of indebtedness under other agreements that contain cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay our indebtedness or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms or on terms that are acceptable to us. If our debt holders require immediate payment, we may not have sufficient assets to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness.. 16. A failure to adapt to future technological innovations could impact our ability to compete effectively and could adversely affect our results of operations.. While we continue to implement the latest technological innovations, such as motion seats and satellite distribution technologies, new technological innovations continue to impact our industry. If we are unable to respond to or invest in changes in technology and the technological preferences of our customers, we may not be able to compete with other exhibitors or other entertainment venues, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. We are subject to uncertainties relating to future expansion plans, including our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates or new theatre site locations, and to obtain financing for such activities on favorable terms or at all.. We have greatly expanded our operations over the last decade through targeted worldwide theatre development and acquisitions. We continue to pursue a strategy of expansion that will involve the development of new theatres and may involve acquisitions of existing theatres and theatre circuits both in the U.S. and internationally. There is significant competition for new site locations and for existing theatre and theatre circuit acquisition opportunities. As a result of such competition, we may not be able to acquire attractive site locations, existing theatres or theatre circuits on terms we consider acceptable. The pace of our growth may also be impacted by delays in site development caused by other parties. Acquisitions and expansion opportunities may divert a significant amount of management's time away from the operation of our business. Growth by acquisition also involves risks relating to difficulties in integrating the operations and personnel of acquired companies and the potential loss of key employees of acquired companies. Our expansion strategy may not result in improvements to our business, financial condition, profitability, or cash flows. Further, our expansion programs may require financing above our existing borrowing capacity and operating cash flows. We may not be able to obtain such financing or ensure that such financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all.. If we do not comply with the ADA and the safe harbor framework included in the consent order we entered into with the Department of Justice, or the DOJ, we could be subject to further litigation.. Our theatres must comply with Title III of the ADA and analogous state and local laws. Compliance with the ADA requires among other things that public facilities \"reasonably accommodate\" individuals with disabilities and that new construction or alterations made to \"commercial facilities\" conform to accessibility guidelines unless \"structurally impracticable\" for new construction or technically infeasible for alterations. On November 15, 2004, Cinemark and the DOJ entered into a consent order, which was filed with the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio, Eastern Division. Under the consent order, the DOJ approved a safe harbor framework for us to construct all of our future stadium-style movie theatres. The DOJ has stipulated that all theatres built in compliance with the consent order will comply with the wheelchair seating requirements of the ADA. If we fail to comply with the ADA, remedies could include imposition of injunctive relief, fines, awards for damages to private litigants and additional capital expenditures to remedy non-compliance. Imposition of significant fines, damage awards or capital expenditures to cure non-compliance could adversely affect our business and operating results.. We may be subject to increased labor and benefits costs.. In the U.S., we are subject to United States federal and state laws governing such matters as minimum wages, working conditions and overtime. We are also subject to union regulations in certain of our international markets, which can specify wage rates as well as minimum hours to be paid to certain employees. As federal and state minimum wage rates increase, we may need to increase not only the wages of our minimum wage employees, but also the wages paid to employees at wage rates that are above minimum wage. Labor shortages, increased employee turnover and health care mandates could also increase our labor costs. This in turn could lead us to increase prices, which could impact our sales. Conversely, if competitive pressures or other factors prevent us from offsetting increased labor costs by increases in prices, our results of operations may be adversely impacted.. A credit market crisis may adversely affect our ability to raise capital and may materially impact our operations.. Severe dislocations and liquidity disruptions in the credit markets could materially impact our ability to obtain debt financing on reasonable terms or at all. The inability to access debt financing on reasonable terms could materially impact our ability to make acquisitions, invest in technology innovations or significantly expand our business in the future.. 17. Our ability to pay dividends may be limited or otherwise restricted.. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by our status as a holding company and the terms of our senior notes indentures, our senior subordinated notes indenture,  and our senior secured credit facility, which restrict our ability to pay dividends and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to pay dividends, directly or indirectly, to us. Under our debt instruments, we may pay a cash dividend up to a specified amount, provided we have satisfied certain financial covenants in, and are not in default under, our debt instruments. The declaration of future dividends on our common stock, par value $0.001 per share, or Common Stock, will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including our results of operations, financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, limitations in our debt agreements and legal requirements.. Provisions in our corporate documents and certain agreements, as well as Delaware law, may hinder a change of control.. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, could discourage unsolicited proposals to acquire us. These provisions include:. •  authorization of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval;. •  a board of directors classified into three classes of directors with the directors of each class having staggered, three-year terms;. •  provisions regulating the ability of our stockholders to nominate directors for election or to bring matters for action at annual meetings of our stockholders; and. •  provisions of Delaware law that restrict many business combinations and provide that directors serving on classified boards of directors, such as ours, may be removed only for cause.. Certain provisions of our 4.875% senior notes indenture and our 5.125% senior notes indenture and our senior secured credit facility may have the effect of delaying or preventing future transactions involving a \"change of control.\" A \"change of control\" would require us to make an offer to the holders of each of our 4.875% senior notes and our 5.125% senior notes to repurchase all of the outstanding notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount outstanding plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of purchase. A \"change of control\" would also be an event of default under our senior secured credit facility.. Future sales of our Common Stock may adversely affect the prevailing market price.. If a large number of shares of our Common Stock is sold in the open market, or if there is a perception that such sales will occur, the trading price of our Common Stock could decrease. In addition, the sale of these shares could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional Common Stock. As of December 31, 2017, we had an aggregate of 170,613,555 shares of our Common Stock authorized but unissued and not reserved for specific purposes. In general, we may issue all of these shares without any action or approval by our stockholders. We may issue shares of our Common Stock in connection with acquisitions.. As of December 31, 2017, we had 116,475,033 shares of our Common Stock outstanding. Of these shares, approximately 105,665,090 shares were freely tradable. The remaining shares of our Common Stock were \"restricted securities\" as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Restricted securities may not be resold in a public distribution except in compliance with the registration requirements of the Securities Act or pursuant to an exemption therefrom, including the exemptions provided by Regulation S and Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act.. We cannot predict whether substantial amounts of our Common Stock will be sold in the open market in anticipation of, or following, any divestiture by any of our large stockholders, our directors or executive officers of their shares of Common Stock.. As of December 31, 2017, there were 7,980,476 shares of our Common Stock reserved for issuance under our 2017 Omnibus Incentive Plan.. 18. Legislative or regulatory initiatives related to global warming/climate change concerns may negatively impact our business.. Recently, there has been an increasing focus and continuous debate on global climate change including increased attention from regulatory agencies and legislative bodies. This increased focus may lead to new initiatives directed at regulating an as yet unspecified array of environmental matters. Legislative, regulatory or other efforts in the U.S. to combat climate change could result in future increases in the cost of raw materials, taxes, transportation and utilities for our vendors and for us which would result in higher operating costs for the Company. Also, compliance of our theatres and accompanying real estate with new and revised environmental, zoning, land-use or building codes, laws, rules or regulations, could have a material and adverse effect on our business.  However, we are unable to predict at this time, the potential effects, if any, that any future environmental initiatives may have on our business.. We may be subject to liability under environmental laws and regulations.. We own and operate a large number of theatres and other properties within the U.S. and internationally, which may be subject to various foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment or human health. Such environmental laws and regulations include those that impose liability for the investigation and remediation of spills or releases of hazardous materials. We may incur such liability, including for any currently or formerly owned, leased or operated property, or for any site, to which we may have disposed, or arranged for the disposal of, hazardous materials or wastes. Certain of these laws and regulations may impose liability, including on a joint and several liability, which can result in a liable party being obliged to pay for greater than its share, regardless of fault or the legality of the original disposal. Environmental conditions relating to our properties or operations could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations and cash flows.. Cyber security threats and our failure to protect our electronically stored data could adversely affect our business.. We collect, use, store and maintain electronic information and data necessary to conduct our business, including confidential and proprietary information of the company, our customers, and our employees. We also rely on the availability of information technology systems to operate our business, including for communications, receiving and displaying movies, ticketing, guest services, payments, and other general operations. We rely on some of our vendors to store and process certain data and to manage, host, and/or provide some of our information technology systems. Because of the scope and complexity of our information technology systems, our reliance on vendors to provide, support and protect our systems and data, and the constantly evolving cyber-threat landscape, our information technology systems are subject to the risk of disruption, failure, unauthorized access, cyber-terrorism, human error, misuse, tampering, theft, and other cyber-attacks. These or similar events, whether accidental or intentional, could result in theft, unauthorized access or disclosure, loss, fraudulent or unlawful use of customer, employee or company data, which could harm our reputation or result in a loss of business, as well as remedial and other costs, fines, investigations, enforcement actions or lawsuits. These or similar events could also lead to an interruption in the operation of our systems resulting in business impact, including loss of business. Those same scope, complexity, reliance, and changing cyber-threat landscape factors could also affect our ability to adapt to and comply with changing regulations and contractual obligations applicable to data security and privacy, which are increasingly demanding, both in the United States and in other jurisdictions where we operate.  In order to address these risks, we have adopted security measures and technology, operate a security program, and work continuously to evaluate and improve our security posture. However, the development and maintenance of these systems and programs are costly and require ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. As such, there can be no assurance that these or similar events will not occur in the future or will not have an adverse effect on our business and results of operation. In addition to Company-specific cyber threats or events, our business and results of operations could also be impacted by cyber-related events affecting our peers and partners within the entertainment industry, as well as other retail companies. We maintain insurance designed to provide coverage for cyber risks related to what we believe to be adequate and collectible insurance in the event of the theft, loss, fraudulent or unlawful use of customer, employee or company data, but the foregoing events or future events could result in costs and business impacts which may not be covered or may be in excess of any available insurance that we may have procured. As a result, future events could have a material impact on our business and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. 19. Product recalls and associated costs could adversely affect our reputation and financial condition.. We may be found liable if the consumption of any of the products we sell causes illness or injury. We are also subject to recall by product manufacturers or if the food products become contaminated. Recalls could result in losses due to the cost of the recall, the destruction of the product and lost sales due to the unavailability of the product for a period of time.. Changes in privacy laws could adversely affect our ability to market our products effectively.. Our cinemas rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques, including email marketing. Any expansion on existing and/or new laws and regulations regarding marketing, solicitation or data protection could adversely affect the continuing effectiveness of our email and other marketing techniques and could result in changes to our marketing strategy which could adversely impact our attendance levels and revenues.. We are subject to complex taxation and could be subject to changes in our tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities.. We are subject to many different forms of taxation both in the U.S. and in the foreign jurisdictions where we operate. The tax authorities may not agree with the determinations that we made and such disagreements could result in lengthy legal disputes and, ultimately, in the payment of substantial amounts for tax, interest and penalties, which could have a material impact on our results.  Additionally, current economic and political conditions make tax rates in any jurisdiction, including the U.S., subject to significant change. Our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. If the Company's effective tax rates were to increase, or if the ultimate determination of the Company's taxes owed in the U.S. or foreign jurisdictions is for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued, the Company's operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected.. We may not be able to generate additional revenues or continue to realize value from our investment in NCM.. As of December 31, 2017, we owned 27,871,862 common units of NCM, which represented an ownership interest in NCM of approximately 18%. We receive a monthly theatre access fee under our Exhibitor Services Agreement with NCM and we are entitled to receive mandatory quarterly distributions of excess cash from NCM.  During the years ended December 31, 2015, 2016 and 2017, the Company received approximately $11.3 million, $11.0 million and $11.3 million in other revenues from NCM, respectively, $18.1 million, $14.7 million and $16.4 million in cash distributions recorded as a reduction of our investment in NCM, respectively, and $18.1 million $14.7 million, $16.4 million in cash distributions in excess of our investment in NCM, respectively. Cinema advertising is a small component of the U.S. advertising market and therefore, NCM competes with larger, more established and well known media platforms such as broadcast radio and television, cable and satellite television, outdoor advertising and Internet portals. In-theatre advertising may not continue to attract advertisers or NCM's in-theatre advertising format may not continue to be received favorably by theatre patrons. If NCM is unable to continue to generate consistent advertising revenues, its results of operations may be adversely affected and our investment in and distributions and revenues from NCM may be adversely impacted.. Each of our common units in NCM is convertible into one share of NCM, Inc. common stock.  As of December 31, 2017, the estimated fair value of our investment in NCM was approximately $191.2 million based on NCM, Inc.'s stock price as of December 31, 2017 of $6.86 per share, which was less than our carrying value of $200.6 million.  We do not believe that the decline in NCM, Inc.'s stock price is other than temporary and therefore, we did not record an impairment of our investment in NCM during the year ended December 31, 2017.  The market value of NCM, Inc.'s stock price may continue to vary due to the performance of the business, industry trends, general and economic conditions and other factors.  If NCM, Inc.'s stock price continues to decline or stays at a level below our carrying value for an extended period of time, we may record an impairment in our investment.. 20. We are subject to impairment losses due to potential declines in the fair value of our assets.. We have a significant amount of long-lived assets. We evaluate long-lived assets for impairment at the theatre level, therefore if a theatre is directly and individually impacted by increased competition, adverse changes in market demographics, or adverse changes in the development or condition of the areas surrounding the theatre, we may record impairment charges to reflect the decline in estimated fair value of that theatre.. We also have a significant amount of goodwill and tradename intangible assets. Declines in our stock price or market capitalization, declines in our attendance due to increased competition in certain regions and/or countries or economic factors that lead to a decline in attendance in any given region or country could result in impairments of goodwill and our intangible assets. As of December 31, 2017, we performed quantitative analyses on all of our goodwill and tradename intangible assets and determined that the fair values of such assets are not below their respective carrying values."
