[1] "ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. Limited partner interests are inherently different from the capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a similar business. You should carefully consider the following risk factors together with all of the other information included in this Report in evaluating an investment in our common units.. If any of the following risks were to occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to distribute cash could be materially adversely affected. In that case, we might not be able to make distributions on our common units, the trading price of our common units could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Inherent in Our Business and Industry. We may not have sufficient cash from operations following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our general partner and its affiliates, to enable us to pay any quarterly distribution on our units.. We may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to pay the quarterly distribution at the current distribution level of $0.5670 per unit, or $2.268 per unit on an annualized basis, at the minimum quarterly distribution level, or at all. In order to pay the quarterly distribution at the current distribution level, we will require available cash of approximately $11.4 million per quarter, or $45.6 million per year, based on the number of common and general partner units currently outstanding.. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on several factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, among other things:. •the market prices for soda ash in the markets in which we sell;. •the volume of natural and synthetic soda ash produced worldwide;. • domestic and international demand for soda ash in the flat glass, container glass, detergent, chemical and paper industries in which our customers operate or serve;. •the freight costs we pay to transport our soda ash to customers or various delivery points;. •the cost of electricity and natural gas used to power our operations;. • the amount of royalty payments we are required to pay to our lessors and licensor and the duration of our leases and license;. • political disruptions in the international markets we or our customers serve, including any changes in trade barriers;. •our relationships with our customers and our or our sales agent's ability to renew contracts;. •the creditworthiness of our customers;. • regulatory action affecting the supply of, or demand for, soda ash, our ability to mine trona ore, our transportation logistics, our operating costs or our operating flexibility;. •new or modified statutes, regulations, governmental policies and taxes or their interpretations; and. •prevailing U.S. and international economic conditions and foreign exchange rates.. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, among other things:. •the level and timing of capital expenditures we make;. • the level of our operating, maintenance and general and administrative expenses, including reimbursements to our general partner for services provided to us;. •the cost of acquisitions, if any;. •our debt service requirements and other liabilities;. •fluctuations in our working capital needs;. •our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets;. 18. Table of Contents. • restrictions on distributions contained in debt agreements to which we, Ciner Wyoming or our affiliates are a party;. •the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner; and. •other business risks affecting our cash levels.. Soda ash prices have been and in the future may be volatile, and lower soda ash prices will negatively affect our financial position and results of operations.. Our only product is soda ash, and the market price of soda ash directly affects the profitability of our operations. If the market price for soda ash declines, our revenue may decrease. Historically, the global market and, to a lesser extent, the domestic market for soda ash have been volatile, and those markets are likely to remain volatile in the future. In the past, we have reduced production to mitigate the impact of low soda ash prices. Volatility in soda ash prices can make it difficult to predict the cash we may have on hand at any given time, and a prolonged period of low soda ash prices may materially and adversely affect our financial position, liquidity (including our borrowing capacity under the Ciner Wyoming Credit Facility), ability to finance planned capital expenditures and results of operations.. Prices for soda ash may fluctuate in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for soda ash, market uncertainty and other factors beyond our control. These factors include, among other things:. •overall economic conditions;. •additional supply from suppliers selling into markets that we serve;. •the level of customer demand, including in the glassmaking industry;. •the level of production and exports of soda ash globally;. •the level of production of materials used to produce soda ash, including trona ore or synthetic materials, globally;. •the cost of energy consumed in the production of soda ash, including the price of natural gas, electricity and coal;. •the impact of non-ANSAC members increasing their capacity and exports;. •domestic and foreign governmental relations, regulations and taxes; and. •political conditions or hostilities and unrest in regions where we export soda ash.. A substantial portion of our costs are attributable to transportation and freight costs. Increases in freight costs could increase our costs significantly and adversely affect our results of operations.. Most soda ash is sold inclusive of transportation costs, which make up a substantial portion of the total delivered cost to the customer. We transport our soda ash by rail or truck and ocean vessel.  As a result, our business and financial results are sensitive to increases in rail freight, trucking and ocean vessel rates. Increases in transportation costs, including increases resulting from emission control requirements, port taxes and fluctuations in the price of fuel, could make soda ash a less competitive product for glass manufacturers when compared to glass substitutes or recycled glass, or could make our soda ash less competitive than soda ash produced by competitors that have other means of transportation or are located closer to their customers. Our rail freight rates may increase year-over-year. Also, we may be unable to pass on our freight and other transportation costs in full because market prices for soda ash are generally determined by supply and demand forces.. A significant portion of our international sales of soda ash are to ANSAC, a U.S. export cooperative, and therefore adverse developments at ANSAC or its customers, or in any of the markets in which we make direct international sales, could adversely affect our ability to compete in certain international markets.. We, along with two other U.S. trona-based soda ash producers, utilize ANSAC as our exclusive export vehicle for sales to customers in all countries excluding Canada, South Africa and members of the European Community and European Free Trade Area, which provides us with the benefits of large purchases of soda ash and significant economies of scale in managing international sales and logistics.  Because ANSAC makes sales to its end customers directly and then allocates a portion of such sales to each member, we do not have direct access to ANSAC's customers and we have no direct control over the credit or other terms ANSAC extends to its customers. As a result, we are indirectly vulnerable to ANSAC's customer relationships and the credit and other terms ANSAC extends to its customers, and if ANSAC ceased to exist, we would face costs and risks of securing those customers and related logistics arrangements on favorable terms. Any adverse change in ANSAC's customer relationships could have a direct impact on ANSAC's ability to make sales and our ability to make sales to ANSAC. In addition, to the extent ANSAC extends credit or other favorable terms to its end customers and those customers subsequently default under sales contracts or otherwise fail to perform, we would have no direct recourse against them.. 19. Table of Contents. Furthermore, from time to time international competition authorities have conducted inquiries into the potentially anti-competitive nature of ANSAC's activities. The Secretariat of Economic Law of the Ministry Justice of Brazil has commenced an investigation into ANSAC's activities in Brazil. Ciner Corp and the two other members of ANSAC have been named in these investigations. An unfavorable outcome in any such investigation could result in our having to pay fines or penalties, either on behalf of Ciner Corp or through ANSAC, or otherwise adversely affect the ability of ANSAC to continue serving export markets. In the event of an unfavorable outcome in any such investigation, the withdrawal of one or more members of ANSAC or the dissolution of ANSAC, we could be forced to use alternative methods to facilitate additional direct export sales and may be obligated to pay our respective portion of the net assets or deficit of the cooperative. Any of these developments could lead us to incur additional costs and may result in lower pricing for our export sales, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to distribute cash to our unitholders. For more information about ANSAC, see Item 1, \"Business - Customers.\". An increase in natural gas prices, or an interruption in our natural gas supply, would negatively impact our competitive cost position when compared to other foreign and domestic soda ash producers.. We rely on natural gas as the main energy source in our soda ash production process, and therefore the cost of natural gas is a significant component of the total production cost for our soda ash. The monthly Henry Hub natural gas settlement prices, over the past five years, have ranged between $1.73 and $6.00. For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, the average monthly Henry Hub natural gas settlement prices were $2.99 and $2.52 per MMBtu, respectively. Furthermore, the price of natural gas could increase as a result of reduced domestic drilling and production activity. Drilling and production operations are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws and government regulations concerning, among other things, emissions of pollutants and greenhouse gases, hydraulic fracturing, and the handling of natural gas and other substances used in connection with natural gas operations, such as drilling fluids and wastewater. In addition, natural gas operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local taxation. More stringent legislation, regulation or taxation of natural gas drilling activity in the United States could directly curtail such activity or increase the cost of drilling, resulting in reduced levels of drilling activity and therefore increased natural gas prices.. Any material increase in natural gas prices could adversely impact our operations by making us less competitive with other soda ash producers who do not use natural gas as a key input.  If U.S. natural gas prices were to increase to a level where foreign soda ash producers were able to improve their competitive position on a unit cost basis, this would negatively affect our competitive cost position.. All of our operations are conducted at one facility. Any adverse developments at our facility could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and therefore our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Because all of our operations are conducted at a single facility, an event such as an explosion, fire, equipment malfunction or severe weather conditions that adversely affect our facility could significantly disrupt our trona mining or soda ash production operations and our ability to supply soda ash to our customers.  For example, in the the fourth quarter of 2016, MSHA required us to make temporary operational modifications, which caused us to lose a significant amount of ore production. While Ciner Enterprises or its affiliates maintains business interruption insurance, our policy includes a time element deductible, per occurrence, and is subject to customary limitations and exclusions. Any sustained disruption in our ability to meet our obligations under our sales agreements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and therefore our ability to distribute cash to unitholders.. Due to our lack of product diversification, adverse developments in the soda ash industry would adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. We rely exclusively on the revenues generated from the production and sale of soda ash. An adverse development in the market for soda ash in U.S. or foreign markets would have a significantly greater impact on our operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders than it would on other companies that have a more diverse asset and product base. Some of the soda ash producers with which we compete sell a more diverse range of products to broader markets.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 95.6% of our soda ash was shipped via rail, and we rely on one rail line to service our facility under a contract that expires in 2018. Interruptions of service on this rail line could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we shipped approximately 95.6% of our soda ash from our facility on a single rail line owned and controlled by Union Pacific. Our current transportation contract with Union Pacific expires on December 31, 2018. There can be no assurance that this contract will be renewed on terms favorable to us or at all. For the year ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, we assisted the majority of our domestic customers in arranging their freight services. Rail operations are subject to various risks that may result in a delay or lack of service at our facility, including mechanical problems, extreme weather conditions, work stoppages, labor strikes, terrorist attacks and operating hazards. Moreover, if Union Pacific's financial condition. 20. Table of Contents. were adversely affected, it could decide to cease or suspend service to our facility. If we are unable to ship soda ash by rail, it would be impracticable to ship all of our soda ash by truck and it would be cost-prohibitive to construct a rail connection to the closest alternative rail line that is approximately 140 miles from our facility. Any delay or failure in the rail services on which we rely could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Moreover, if we do not ship a significant portion of our soda ash production on the Union Pacific rail line during a twelve-month period, we must pay Union Pacific a shortfall payment under the terms of our transportation agreement.. A significant portion of the demand for soda ash comes from glass manufacturers and other industrial end users whose businesses can be adversely affected by economic downturns.. A significant portion of the demand for soda ash comes from glass manufacturers and other industrial customers. Companies that operate in the industries that glass manufacturers serve, including the automotive, construction and glass container industries, may experience significant fluctuations in demand for their own end products because of economic conditions, changes in consumer demand, or increases in raw material and energy costs. In addition, many large end users of soda ash depend upon the availability of credit on favorable terms to make purchases of raw materials such as soda ash. As interest rates increase or if our customers' creditworthiness deteriorates, this credit may be expensive or difficult to obtain. If these customers cannot obtain credit on favorable terms, they may be forced to reduce their purchases of soda ash. These and other factors may lead some customers to seek renegotiation or cancellation of their existing arrangements with us, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to distribute cash to unitholders.. If the percentage of our international sales increases as a percentage of total sales, our gross margin could decrease and the average trade credit payment period of our customers could increase, which could adversely affect our financial position and our ability to distribute cash to our unitholders.. From 2016 to 2017, our international sales of soda ash as a percentage of total sales increased from 59.5% to 61.2%. Our gross margin for international sales is lower than our gross margin for domestic sales because our average price of soda ash sold internationally is lower than our average price of soda ash sold domestically. Lower margins could adversely affect our financial position and our ability to distribute cash to our unitholders.. We typically receive payment for our domestic sales more quickly than we receive payment for our international sales.  Therefore, an increase in our international sales and a decrease in domestic sales would extend the average time period for our receipt of payment for our soda ash, which could expose us to greater credit risk from our customers, increase our working capital requirements and negatively affect the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. Ciner Corp, on our behalf, typically enters into contracts and exclusive arrangements with our customers that have terms of one to three years, and our customers are not obligated to purchase any amount of soda ash from us.. The terms of our customer contracts vary by geography. Most of our domestic contracts have terms of one to three years. Our European contracts typically have a term of one year, and some Asian contracts have only a three-month term. We understand that ANSAC's customer contract terms also vary by region. Moreover, our customer contracts are not exclusive dealing or take-or-pay arrangements. Additionally, we may lose a customer for any number of reasons, including as a result of a merger or acquisition, the selection of another provider of soda ash, business failure or bankruptcy of the customer or dissatisfaction with our performance or pricing. Loss of any of our major customers could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flow.. Increased use of glass substitutes and recycled glass may affect demand for soda ash, which could adversely affect our result of operations.. Increased use of glass substitutes or recycled glass in the container industry could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Container glass production is one of the principal end markets for soda ash. Competition from increased use of glass substitutes, such as plastic and recycled glass, has had a negative effect on demand for soda ash. Demand for soda ash by the glass container industry has generally declined over the last ten years. We believe that the use of containers made with alternative materials such as plastic and aluminum will continue to affect negatively the growth in domestic demand for soda ash.. We are exposed to trade credit risk in the ordinary course of our business activities.. We extend credit to our customers as a normal part of our business and as such are subject to the credit risk of our customers, including the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance. Typical industry contract terms are net 30 days from the date of shipment for domestic U.S. customers and 120-150 days from the date of shipment for international customers. We have experienced nonperformance by our customers and counterparties in the past, and we take reserves for accounts more than 90 days past due. We have offered extended credit terms to our affiliate, CIDT, and charge interest on its past due receivables and as such have not taken any reserves against affiliate receivables.  Some of our customers and counterparties may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. Our credit procedures and policies may not be adequate to eliminate customer. 21. Table of Contents. credit risk, and we may not adequately assess the creditworthiness of existing or future customers. In addition, even if our procedures work properly, our customers may experience unanticipated deterioration of their creditworthiness. Material nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and on our ability to distribute cash to our unitholders.. We face intense competition, including from companies that have capital resources greater than ours and that have more diversified operations.. We face competition from a number of soda ash producers in the United States, Europe and Asia, some of which have greater market share and greater financial, production and other resources than we do. Some of our competitors are diversified global corporations that have many lines of business. Some of our competitors have greater capital resources and may be in a better position to withstand a long term deterioration in the soda ash market. Other competitors, even if smaller in size, may have greater experience and stronger relationships in their local markets. Competitive pressures could make it more difficult for us to retain our existing customers and attract new customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to distribute cash to our unitholders. Competition could also intensify the negative impact of factors that decrease demand for soda ash in the markets we serve, such as adverse economic conditions, weather, higher fuel costs and taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that directly or indirectly increase the cost or limit the use of soda ash.  In addition, China is the largest producer of synthetic soda ash in the world and historically has exported only a small percentage of its production. If Chinese producers, which we believe are supported by government subsidies, and other producers were to begin producing significantly more quantities of soda ash than are produced today then the supply of soda ash in the global market could materially increase and put downward pressure on pricing.. Unfavorable economic conditions may reduce demand for our products, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. Worldwide soda ash demand correlates to global economic growth. Worsening economic conditions or factors that negatively affect the economic health of the United States and other parts of the world into which we or ANSAC sells soda ash could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations. We believe that deterioration of economic conditions or a prolonged period of economic weakness would have an adverse impact on our results of operations, business and financial condition, as well as our ability to distribute cash to our unitholders.. Our reserve data are estimates based on assumptions that may be inaccurate and are based on existing economic and operating conditions that may change in the future, which could materially and adversely affect the quantities and value of our reserves.. Our reserve estimates may vary substantially from the actual amounts of minerals we are be able to recover economically from our reserves. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of reserves, including many factors beyond our control. Estimates of reserves necessarily depend upon a number of variables and assumptions, any one of which may, if incorrect, result in an estimate that varies considerably from actual results. These factors and assumptions relate to:. • future prices of soda ash, mining and production costs, capital expenditures and transportation costs;. • future mining technology and processes;. • the effects of regulation by governmental agencies; and. • geologic and mining conditions, which may not be identified by available exploration data and may differ from our experiences in areas where we currently mine.. Actual production, revenue and expenditures with respect to our reserves will likely vary from our estimates, and these variations may be material.. Restrictions in the agreements governing Ciner Wyoming's indebtedness, including the Ciner Wyoming Credit Facility, could limit its operations and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders.. On August 1, 2017 Ciner Wyoming entered into a $225.0 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the \"Ciner Wyoming Credit Facility\"). The Ciner Wyoming Credit Facility contains various covenants and restrictive provisions that limit (subject to certain exceptions) Ciner Wyoming's ability to:. • make distributions on or redeem or repurchase its units;. • incur or guarantee additional debt;. • make certain investments and acquisitions;. • incur certain liens or permit them to exist;. 22. Table of Contents. • enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates of Ciner Wyoming;. • merge or consolidate with another company; and. • transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of assets.. The Ciner Wyoming Credit Facility also contains covenants requiring Ciner Wyoming to maintain certain financial ratios. Ciner Wyoming is subject to a consolidated interest coverage ratio (as defined in the Ciner Wyoming Credit Facility) of not less than 3.00 to 1.00 and a consolidated leverage ratio (as defined in the Ciner Wyoming Credit Facility) of not greater than 3.00 to 1.00. Ciner Wyoming's ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that Ciner Wyoming will meet those ratios and tests.. In addition, the Ciner Wyoming Credit Facility contains events of default customary for transactions of this nature, including (1) failure to make payments required under the Ciner Wyoming Credit Facility, (2) events of default resulting from Ciner Wyoming's failure to comply with covenants and financial ratios in the Ciner Wyoming Credit Facility, (3) the institution of insolvency or similar proceedings against Ciner Wyoming, (4) the occurrence of a default under any other material indebtedness Ciner Wyoming may have, and (5) the occurrence of a change of control.. Under the Ciner Wyoming Credit Facility, a change of control is triggered if Ciner Corp and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, in the aggregate, directly or indirectly, cease to own all of the equity interests, or cease to have the ability to elect a majority of the board of directors (or equivalent governing body) of Ciner GP (or any entity that performs the functions of our general partner). In addition, a change of control would be triggered if we cease to own at least 50.1% of the economic interests in Ciner Wyoming or cease to have the ability to elect a majority of the members of Ciner Wyoming's board of managers.. The provisions of the Ciner Wyoming Credit Facility may affect Ciner Wyoming's ability to obtain future financing and pursue attractive business opportunities and its flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. In addition, Ciner Wyoming's failure to comply with the provisions of the Ciner Wyoming Credit Facility could result in an event of default, which could enable its lenders, subject to the terms and conditions of the Ciner Wyoming Credit Facility, to terminate all outstanding commitments and declare any outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable. If the payment of Ciner Wyoming's debt is accelerated, its assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full. As a result, our results of operations and, therefore, our ability to distribute cash to unitholders, could be materially and adversely affected, and our unitholders could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. Please read Part II, Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Debt - Ciner Wyoming Credit Facility\" for more information.. If we are not able to renew our leases and license, it will have a material adverse effect on us. Under the terms of our subsurface mining leases and license, we are required to make minimum royalty payments or annual rentals, and the royalty rates we are required to pay may change with little or no notice to us.. All of our reserves are held under leases with the State of Wyoming and the U.S. Bureau of Land Management and a license with Rock Springs. As of December 31, 2017, leases covering approximately 14.5% of our acreage are scheduled to expire over the next five years. If we are not able to renew our leases and license, it will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash available for distribution to unitholders. Each of those leases and the license requires that minimum royalties or annual rentals be paid regardless of production levels. If our operations do not meet production goals, then it could have an adverse effect on our ability to pay cash distributions due to the ongoing requirement to pay minimum royalty payments despite a lack of production and the corresponding net sales.. The royalty rates we pay to our lessors and licensor may change upon our renewal of such leases and license. Under our license with Rock Springs, the applicable royalty rate may vary based on a most favored nation clause in the license. The applicable royalty rate in the license may be adjusted if we pay a higher royalty rate to certain other mineral rights owners in Sweetwater County, Wyoming. The extent to which Rock Springs may increase the applicable royalty rate is currently the subject of litigation in Wyoming. Any increase in the royalty rates we are required to pay to our lessors and licensor, or any failure by us to renew any of our leases and license, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity, and, therefore, may affect our ability to distribute cash to unitholders.. We may not achieve the acquisition component of our growth strategy.. Acquisitions are a component of our growth strategy. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to identify any acquisition opportunities, that we will be able to grow our business through acquisitions, or that any assets or business we acquire will perform in accordance with our expectations or that our assessment concerning the value, strengths and weaknesses of assets or business acquired will prove to be correct. We have not made any acquisitions in the past, and there are currently a limited number of producers in North America with businesses similar to ours and potentially legal and regulatory hurdles, such as extensive evaluation under antitrust laws to determine whether the acquisition would be permissible. In connection with future. 23. Table of Contents. acquisitions, if any, we may incur debt and contingent liabilities, increased interest expense and amortization expense and significant charges relative to integration costs. In addition, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected if we overpay for acquisitions.. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks, including:. • unforeseen difficulties extending internal control over financial reporting and performing the required assessment at the newly acquired business or assets;. • potential adverse short-term effects on operating results through increased costs or otherwise;. • diversion of management's attention and failure to recruit new, and retain existing, key personnel of the acquired business or assets;. • failure to implement infrastructure, logistics and systems integration successfully; and. • the risks inherent in the systems of the acquired business and risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Defects in title or loss of any leasehold interests in our properties could limit our ability to conduct mining operations on these properties or result in significant unanticipated costs.. All of our trona reserves are leased or licensed. A title defect in our leased, licensed or owned property or the loss of any lease or license upon expiration of its term, upon a default or otherwise could adversely affect our ability to mine the associated reserves and/or process the trona that we mine. In some cases, we rely on title information or representations and warranties provided by our lessors, licensor or grantors. We cannot rely on any such representations or warranties with respect to the surface land on which our facility is located because we acquired the surface land in 1991 by quitclaim deed. We have no title insurance for our interests in this property. Any challenge to our title or leasehold interests could delay our operations and could ultimately result in the loss of some or all of our interest in the property. From time to time we also may be in default with respect to leases or the license for properties on which we have mining operations. In such events, we may have to close down or alter significantly the sequence of such mining operations, which may adversely affect our future soda ash production and future revenues. If we mine on property that we do not own, lease or license, we could incur liability for such mining and be subject to regulatory sanction and penalties. Also, in any such case, the investigation and resolution of title issues would divert management's time from our business, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. As a result, our results of operations, business and financial condition, as well as our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders may be materially adversely affected.. Mining development, exploration and processing operations pose numerous hazards and uncertainties that may negatively affect our business.. Mining and processing operations involve many hazards and uncertainties, including, among other things:. • seismic activity;. • ground failures;. • industrial accidents;. • environmental contamination or leakage;. • fires and explosions;. • unusual and unexpected rock formations or water conditions;. • flooding and periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions or other acts of nature; and. • mechanical equipment failure and facility performance problems.. These occurrences could damage or destroy our properties or production facilities, or result in personal injury or wrongful death claims, environmental damage to our properties or the properties of others, delays in, or prohibitions on, mining or processing, increased production costs, asset write downs, monetary losses and legal liability, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In particular, underground mining and related processing activities present inherent risks of injury to persons and damage to equipment. Our insurance policies provide limited coverage for some of these risks but will not fully cover these risks. Please read \"Risk Factors - Risks Inherent in Our Business and Industry - Our business is subject to inherent risk, including risk relating to natural disasters, and our insurance coverage for such risks may not be adequate or available to us. If an accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, it could materially affect our business.\". 24. Table of Contents. Significant mine accidents could occur, potentially resulting in a mine shutdown or leading to liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Moreover, based on the projected rate at which we are expected to continue to produce soda ash via deca rehydration, it is estimated that around the end of 2020 we could need to produce approximately 200,000 short tons of soda ash per year by other means, which would require additional and material capital expenditures and may increase production costs, shorten the reserve life of our mine and increase our ore-to-ash ratio.. We may be unable to obtain, maintain or renew permits necessary for our operations, which could impair our ability to conduct our operations and limit our ability to make distributions to unitholders.. Our facility and operations require us to obtain a number of permits that impose strict regulations on various environmental and operational matters in connection with mining trona ore and producing soda ash. These include permits issued by various federal, state and local agencies and regulatory bodies. The permitting rules, and the interpretations of these rules, are complex, change frequently and are subject to discretionary interpretations by our regulators, all of which may make compliance difficult or impractical and may impair our existing operations or the development of future facilities. The public, including non-governmental organizations, environmental groups and individuals, have certain statutory rights to comment upon and submit objections to requested permits and environmental impact statements prepared in connection with applicable regulations and otherwise engage in the permitting process, including bringing citizen's lawsuits to challenge the issuance or renewal of permits, the validity of environmental impact statements or the performance of mining activities. If permits are not issued or renewed in a timely fashion or at all or are conditioned in a manner that restricts our ability to conduct our operations economically, our cash flows may decline, which could limit our ability to distribute cash to unitholders.. Equipment upgrades, equipment failures and deterioration of assets may lead to production curtailments, shutdowns or additional expenditures.. Our operations depend upon critical equipment that require scheduled upgrades and maintenance and may suffer unanticipated breakdowns or failures. As a result, our mining operations and processing may be interrupted or curtailed, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. As our mine ages and we deplete our trona reserves, in order to maintain current production rates over the next five to ten years, we expect to need to use smaller mining equipment or two seam mining technique, which will increase our mining costs. In addition, our maintenance capital expenditures do not include actual or estimated capital expenditures for replacement of our trona reserves.. In addition, assets critical to our trona ore mining and soda ash production operations may deteriorate due to wear and tear or otherwise sooner than we currently estimate. Such deterioration may result in additional maintenance spending and additional capital expenditures. If these assets do not generate the amount of future cash flows that we expect, and we are not able to procure replacement assets in an economically feasible manner, our future results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. If any of the equipment on which we depend were severely damaged or were destroyed by fire, abnormal wear and tear, flooding, or otherwise, we may be unable to replace or repair it in a timely manner or at a reasonable cost, which would impact our ability to produce and ship soda ash, which would have a material adverse effect our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to distribute cash to our unitholders.. We may record impairment charges on our assets, including our reserves, that would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.. We are required to perform impairment tests on our assets, including our trona reserves, whenever events or changes in circumstances modify the estimated useful life of or estimated future cash flows from an asset that would indicate that the carrying amount of such asset may not be recoverable or whenever management's plans change with respect to such asset. An impairment in one period may not be reversed in a later period even if prices increase. If we are required to recognize impairment charges in the future, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected.. A shortage of skilled workers could reduce our labor productivity and increase our costs, which could negatively affect our business.. Our mining and processing operations require personnel with specialized skills and experience. Our ability to be productive and profitable will depend upon our ability to employ and retain skilled workers. If we experience shortages of skilled workers in the future, our labor costs and overall productivity could be materially and adversely affected. If our labor costs increase or if we experience materially increased health and benefits costs, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Severe weather conditions could have a material adverse impact on our business.. 25. Table of Contents. Our business could be materially adversely affected by severe weather conditions. Severe weather conditions may affect our mining and processing operations by resulting in weather-related damage to our facility and equipment or impact our ability to transport soda ash from our facility. In addition, severe weather conditions could hinder our operations by causing us to halt or delay our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our business is subject to inherent risk, including risk relating to natural disasters, and our insurance coverage for such risks may not be adequate or available to us. If an accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, it could materially affect our business.. We are covered by insurance policies maintained by Ciner Enterprises or its affiliates. These insurance policies provide limited coverage for some, but not all, of the potential risks and liabilities associated with our businesses. For some risks, we do not obtain insurance or are covered by Ciner Enterprises', or its affiliates', policies if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially, and certain types of insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. As a result, we may not be able to renew our or its existing insurance policies or procure other desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, we cannot insure against certain environmental, safety and pollution risks. Even where insurance coverage applies, insurers may contest their obligations to make payments. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover us against losses we incur, and coverage under these policies may be depleted or may not be available to us to the extent that we otherwise exhaust its coverage limits. Our results of operations, and therefore our ability to distribute cash to unitholders, could be materially and adversely affected by losses and liabilities from uninsured or under-insured events, as well as by delays in the payment of insurance proceeds or the failure by insurers to make payments.. We also may incur costs and liabilities resulting from claims for damages to property or injury to persons arising from our operations. We must compensate employees for work-related injuries. If we do not make adequate provision for our workers' compensation liabilities, such claims could harm our future operating results. If we are required to pay for these fines, costs and liabilities, our financial condition, results of operations, and therefore our ability to distribute cash to unitholders, could be adversely affected.. We may be subject to litigation, the disposition of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. The nature of our operations exposes us to possible litigation claims, including disputes with customers and providers of shipping services. Some of the lawsuits may seek fines or penalties and damages in large amounts, or seek to restrict our business activities. Because of the uncertain nature of litigation and coverage decisions, we cannot predict the outcome of these matters or whether insurance claims may mitigate any damages to us. Litigation is very costly, and the costs associated with prosecuting and defending litigation matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Expansion or improvement of our existing facilities may not result in revenue increases and will be subject to regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic risks, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. One of the ways we may grow our business is through the expansion or improvement of our existing facility. The construction of additions or modifications to our existing facility involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic uncertainties that are beyond our control. Such expansion or improvement projects may also require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital, and financing may not be available on economically acceptable terms or at all. If we undertake these projects, they may not be completed on schedule, at the budgeted cost, or at all. Moreover, our revenue may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. As a result, we may not be able to realize our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We conduct our operations through a joint venture, which subjects us to additional risks that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Ciner Wyoming is a joint venture with an affiliate of NRP. We may also enter into other joint venture arrangements with third parties in the future. NRP has, and these third parties may have, obligations that are important to the success of the joint venture, such as the obligation to pay their share of capital and other costs of the joint venture. The performance of these third party obligations, including the ability of our joint venture partner in Ciner Wyoming, to satisfy their respective obligations, is outside our control. If these parties do not satisfy their obligations under the arrangement, our business may be adversely affected.. Our joint venture arrangement may involve risks not otherwise present without such partner, including, for example:. • our joint venture partner shares certain blocking rights over transactions between Ciner Wyoming and its affiliates, including us;. • our joint venture partner may take actions contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives;. 26. Table of Contents. • although we control Ciner Wyoming, we owe contractual duties to Ciner Wyoming and its other owners, which may conflict with our interests and the interests of our unitholders; and. • disputes between us and our joint venture partner may result in delays, litigation or operational impasses.. The risks described above or any failure to continue our joint venture or to resolve disagreements with our joint venture partner could adversely affect our ability to transact the business that is the subject of such joint venture, which would, in turn, negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and ability to distribute cash to our unitholders.. Restrictions in the Revolving Credit Facility could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders.. On August 1, 2017, the Partnership entered into a $10.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility (the \"Revolving Credit Facility\"). The Revolving Credit Facility contains various covenants and restrictive provisions that limit (subject to certain exceptions) our ability (and the ability of our subsidiaries, including Ciner Wyoming) to:. • make distributions on or redeem or repurchase units;. • incur or guarantee additional debt;. • make certain investments and acquisitions;. • incur certain liens or permit them to exist;. • enter into certain types of transactions with our affiliates;. • merge or consolidate with another company; and. • transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of assets.. The Revolving Credit Facility also contains a covenant requiring us to maintain a consolidated leverage ratio (as defined in the Revolving Credit Facility) of not greater than 3.00 to 1.00 and a consolidated interest coverage ratio of not less than 3.00 to 1.00. Our ability to meet that financial ratio and test can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet that ratio and test.. In addition, the Revolving Credit Facility contains events of default customary for transactions of this nature, including (1) failure to make payments required under the Revolving Credit Facility, (2) events of default resulting from our failure to comply with covenants and financial ratios in the Revolving Credit Facility, (3) the institution of insolvency or similar proceedings against us, (4) the occurrence of a default under any other material indebtedness we (or any of our subsidiaries) may have, including the Ciner Wyoming Credit Facility, and (5) the occurrence of a change of control. In addition, our obligations under the Revolving Credit Facility are secured by a pledge of substantially all of our assets (subject to certain exceptions), including the membership interests in Ciner Wyoming held by us.. Under the Revolving Credit Facility, a change of control is triggered if Ciner Corp and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, in the aggregate, directly or indirectly, cease to own all of the equity interests, or cease to have the ability to elect a majority of the board of directors (or equivalent governing body) of, Ciner Holdings or Ciner GP (or any entity that performs the functions of our general partner). In addition, a change of control would be triggered if we cease to own at least 50.1% of the economic interests in Ciner Wyoming or cease to have the ability to elect a majority of the members of Ciner Wyoming's board of managers.. The provisions of the Revolving Credit Facility may affect our ability to obtain future financing and pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. In addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of the Revolving Credit Facility could result in an event of default, which could enable our lenders to, subject to the terms and conditions of the Revolving Credit Facility, terminate all outstanding commitments and declare any outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable. If the payment of our debt is accelerated, our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, the lenders could foreclose on our assets, including without limitation our ownership interests in Ciner Wyoming, and our unitholders could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. Please read Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 9, \"Debt-Revolving Credit Facility.\". Our level of indebtedness may increase, reducing our financial flexibility.. In the future, we may incur significant indebtedness in order to make future acquisitions or to develop or expand our facilities and mining capabilities. Our level of indebtedness could affect our operations in several ways, including:. • a significant portion of our cash flows could be used to service our indebtedness;. 27. Table of Contents. • a high level of debt would increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • the covenants contained in the agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness will limit our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets, pay distributions and make certain investments;. • a high level of debt may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged, and therefore may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our indebtedness would prevent us from pursuing;. • our debt covenants may also affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in the economy and our industry; and. • a high level of debt may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, distributions or for general corporate or other purposes.. A high level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may default on our debt obligations. Our ability to meet our debt obligations and to reduce our level of indebtedness depends on our future performance. General economic conditions and financial, business and other factors affect our operations and our future performance. Many of these factors are beyond our control. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to pay the interest on our debt, and future working capital, borrowings or equity financing may not be available to pay or refinance such debt. Factors that will affect our ability to raise cash through an offering of our units or a refinancing of our debt include financial market conditions, the value of our assets and our performance at the time we need capital.. Restrictions in the Ciner Enterprises Credit Agreement could limit our ability to grow the business and our ability to distribute cash to our unitholders.. We and Ciner Wyoming are indirectly affected by certain prohibitions and limitations contained in a credit agreement (which expires on October 23, 2025) to which Ciner Enterprises (as borrower), and Ciner Holdings and Ciner Corp (as guarantors), are a party (as amended and restated or otherwise modified, the \"Ciner Enterprises Credit Agreement\").. Specifically, Ciner Enterprises has agreed (subject to certain exceptions in addition to those described below) that it will not, and will not permit any of its subsidiaries, including Ciner Wyoming and us, to:. • make distributions on or redeem or repurchase equity interests, other than distributions to our and Ciner Wyoming's unitholders;. • incur or guarantee additional debt, other than debt incurred under the Revolving Credit Facility or the Ciner Wyoming Credit Facility, among certain other types of permitted debt;. • make certain investments and acquisitions, other than acquisitions by each of Ciner Wyoming and us, in an amount not to exceed $10 million and $2 million, respectively, and other exceptions set forth therein;. • incur certain liens or permit them to exist, other than, with respect to our and Ciner Wyoming's liens, an aggregate amount outstanding at any time equal to $200,000 and $1 million, respectively;. • enter into certain types of transaction with affiliates, other than transactions between Ciner Wyoming and us;. • merge or consolidate with another company; or. • transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of assets, other than our and Ciner Wyoming's dispositions of assets with a net book value not to exceed $500,000 and $2.5 million, respectively, in any given year.. Due to its ownership and control of our general partner, Ciner Enterprises has the ability to prevent Ciner Wyoming and us from taking actions that would cause Ciner Enterprises to violate any covenants in, or otherwise to be in default under, the Ciner Enterprises Credit Agreement. In deciding whether to prevent Ciner Wyoming or us from taking any such action, Ciner Enterprises will have no fiduciary duty to us or our unitholders. Moreover, if we or Ciner Wyoming desire to take any action, to the extent such action would not be permitted under the Ciner Enterprises Credit Agreement, Ciner Enterprises would be required to seek the consent of the lenders under the Ciner Enterprises Credit Agreement. Ciner Enterprises' compliance with the covenants in the Ciner Enterprises Credit Agreement may restrict our and Ciner Wyoming's ability to undertake certain actions that might otherwise be considered beneficial to us, including borrowing under the Revolving Credit Facility or the Ciner Wyoming Credit Facility to finance operations or expansions or to distribute cash to our and their respective unitholders.. Under the Ciner Enterprises Credit Agreement, a change of control is triggered if Ciner Enterprises and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, in the aggregate, directly or indirectly, cease to own all of the equity interests, or cease to have the ability to elect a majority of the board of directors (or equivalent governing body) of, Ciner Corp, Ciner Holdings or Ciner GP (or any entity that performs the functions of our general partner). In addition, a change of control would be triggered if we cease to own at least 51%. 28. Table of Contents. of the economic interests in Ciner Wyoming or cease to have the ability to elect a majority of the members of Ciner Wyoming's board of managers.. Any debt instruments that Ciner Enterprises or any of its affiliates enter into in the future, including any amendments to the Ciner Enterprises Credit Agreement, may include additional or more restrictive limitations that may impact our ability to conduct our business. These additional restrictions could adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or engage in, expand or pursue our business activities.. Ciner Holdings, the sole member of our general partner, is a guarantor under, and its equity interests and assets are pledged as collateral under, the Ciner Enterprises Credit Agreement; in the event Ciner Enterprises is unable to meet its obligations under that facility, or is declared bankrupt, Ciner Enterprises' lenders may gain control of our general partner or, in the case of bankruptcy, our partnership may be dissolved.. Ciner Holdings, the sole member of our general partner, is a guarantor under the Ciner Enterprises Credit Agreement, and all Ciner Holdings' assets (including its membership interests in our general partner) are subject to a lien under the Ciner Enterprises Credit Agreement. In the event Ciner Enterprises is unable to satisfy its obligations under the Ciner Enterprises Credit Agreement and the lenders foreclose on their collateral, the lenders will own our general partner, and effectively all of its assets, which include the general partner interest in us and our incentive distribution rights. In such event, the lenders would own the entity that controls our management and operation. Moreover, in the event Ciner Enterprises becomes insolvent or is declared bankrupt, our general partner also may be deemed insolvent or declared bankrupt. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the bankruptcy or insolvency of our general partner may cause a dissolution of our partnership.. We are subject to stringent environmental laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities.. Our operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relate to environmental protection. Examples of these laws include:. • the federal Clean Air Act and analogous state laws that impose obligations related to air emissions;. • the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, known as CERCLA or the Superfund law, and analogous state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may be or have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or at locations to which our wastes are or have been transported for disposal;. • the federal Water Pollution Control Act, or the Clean Water Act, and analogous state laws that regulate discharges from our facilities into state and federal waters, including wetlands and the Green River;. • the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, or RCRA, and analogous state laws that impose requirements for the storage, treatment and disposal of solid and hazardous waste from our facilities;. • the Endangered Species Act, or ESA; and. • the Toxic Substances Control Act, or TSCA, and analogous state laws that impose requirements on the use, storage and disposal of various chemicals and chemical substances at our facility.. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations that are applicable to our operations, including the acquisition of permits to conduct regulated activities, the incurrence of capital or operating expenditures to limit or prevent releases of materials from our facility, and the imposition of substantial liabilities and remedial obligations for pollution resulting from our operations. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or the EPA, and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly corrective actions. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations and permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations. In addition, we may experience a delay in obtaining or be unable to obtain required permits or regulatory authorizations, which may cause us to lose potential and current customers, interrupt our operations and limit our growth and revenue. In addition, future changes in environmental or other laws may result in additional compliance expenditures that have not been pre-funded and which could adversely affect our business and results of operations and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. There is a risk that we may incur costs and liabilities in connection with our operations due to historical industry operations and waste disposal practices, our handling of wastes and potential emissions and discharges related to our operations. Private parties, including the owners of the properties on which we operate, may have the right to pursue legal actions to require remediation of contamination or enforce compliance with environmental requirements as well as to seek damages for personal injury or property damage. For example, an accidental release from our facility could subject us to substantial liabilities arising. 29. Table of Contents. from environmental cleanup and restoration costs, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. In addition, changes in environmental laws occur frequently, and any such changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or remediation requirements could have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial position. We may not be able to recover all or any of these costs from insurance. Please read Item 1, \"Business - Environmental Matters\" and Item 13, \"Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence - Indemnification Agreement\" for more information.. The adoption of climate change legislation at the global, federal, state or local level could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the soda ash we produce.. Many nations have agreed to limit emissions of \"greenhouse gases,\" or GHGs, pursuant to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, also known as the \"Kyoto Protocol.\" Methane, a primary component of natural gas, and carbon dioxide, a by-product of the burning of coal, oil, natural gas and refined petroleum products, are GHGs regulated by the Kyoto Protocol. The United States signed, but did not ratify, the Kyoto Protocol. In December 2015, the United States was one of 195 countries to sign the so-called Paris Agreement. The Paris Agreement came into effect in November 2016. However, in June 2017, the Trump administration announced plans to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. President Trump also issued an executive order on promoting energy independence and economic growth. Recently, the EPA issued a report covering plans on how to implement the president's executive order including plans to review and possibly repeal all greenhouse-gas related regulations, including the Clean Power Plan.. The U.S. Congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs, primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG \"cap and trade\" programs. Although the U.S. Congress has not adopted such legislation at this time, many states continue to pursue regulations to reduce GHG emissions. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and natural gas processing plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances corresponding with their annual emissions of GHGs. These programs work by reducing the number of allowances available for purchase each year until the overall GHG emission reduction goal is achieved. As the number of GHG emission allowances declines each year, the cost or value of allowances is expected to escalate significantly. Restrictions on GHG emissions that may be imposed in various states could adversely affect the soda ash industry.. In addition, there has been public discussion that climate change may be associated with extreme weather conditions, such as more intense hurricanes, thunderstorms, tornados and snow or ice storms, as well as rising sea levels. Another possible consequence of climate change is increased volatility in seasonal temperatures. Some studies indicate that climate change could cause some areas to experience temperatures substantially colder than their historical averages. Extreme weather conditions can interfere with our production and increase our costs, and damage resulting from extreme weather may not be fully insured. However, at this time, we are unable to determine the extent to which climate change may lead to increased storm or weather hazards affecting our operations.. We are subject to strict laws and regulations regarding employee and process safety, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to distribute cash to unitholders.. We are subject to a number of federal and state laws and regulations related to safety, including the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, or OSHA, the Mine Safety and Health Administration, or MSHA, and comparable state statutes, the purposes of which are to protect the health and safety of workers. In addition, OSHA requires that we maintain information about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations and that we provide this information to employees, state and local governmental authorities, and local residents. Failure to comply with OSHA and MSHA requirements and related state regulations, including general industry standards, record keeping requirements and monitoring and control of occupational exposure to regulated substances, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions if we are subjected to significant penalties, fines or compliance costs, including any shutdown of one or more of our miners or the shutdown of our mine.. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to holders of our units depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which may prevent us from making cash distributions during periods when we record net income.. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow, including cash flow from reserves and working capital or other borrowings, and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may pay cash distributions during periods when we record net losses for financial accounting purposes and may not pay cash distributions during periods when we record net income.. 30. Table of Contents. Failure to maintain effective quality control systems at our mining, processing and production facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations.. The performance and quality of our products are critical to the success of our business. These factors depend significantly on the effectiveness of our quality control systems, which, in turn, depends on a number of factors, including the design of our quality control systems, our quality-training program and our ability to ensure that employees that operate our assets adhere to our quality control policies and guidelines. Any significant failure or deterioration of our quality control systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our inability to acquire, maintain or renew financial assurances related to the reclamation and restoration of mining property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Mining operations are generally obligated under federal, state and local laws to restore property in accordance with regulatory standards and an approved reclamation plan after it has been mined, and generally must also maintain financial assurances, such as surety bonds, to secure such obligations. To fulfill the financial assurances requirement, the Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality (\"WDEQ\") allows us to \"self-bond,\" which commits us to pay directly for reclamation costs rather than obtaining a traditional surety bond. As of December 31, 2017, the amount of our self-bond agreement with the WDEQ was $32.9 million. The Land Quality Division of the WDEQ periodically re-evaluates the amount of the bond; so the current amount is subject to increase.  Currently, the Land Quality Division of the WDEQ is considering legislation that would limit self-bonding to no more than 70% of the required financial assurances.  If such legislation is passed and becomes applicable to trona operations we may be required to purchase a surety bond for an amount up to the total reclamation costs.. Our inability to secure financial assurances satisfactory to WDEQ could subject us to fines and penalties as well as the revocation of our operating permits. Such inability could result from a variety of factors, including:. • the State of Wyoming's future decision to require mining operations to maintain surety bonds instead of self-bonds;. • continued increases in the amount of our self-bond;. • the lack of availability, high expense, or unreasonable terms of financial assurances;. • the ability of future financial assurance counterparties to require collateral; and. • the exercise by financial assurance counterparties of any rights to refuse to renew the financial assurance instruments.. Our inability to acquire, maintain, or renew necessary financial assurances related to the reclamation and restoration of mining property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Federal or state regulatory agencies have the authority to order certain of our mines to be temporarily or permanently closed under certain circumstances, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to meet our customers' demands.. Federal or state regulatory agencies have the authority under certain circumstances following significant health and safety incidents, to order a mine to be temporarily or permanently closed.  If this occurred, we may also be required to incur significant operating or capital expenditures to re-open the mine.  In the event that these agencies order the closing of our Green River Basin facility, our soda ash sales contracts generally permit us to issue force majeure notices which suspend our obligations to deliver soda ash under these contracts.  However, our customers may challenge our issuances of force majeure notices.  If these challenges are successful, we may have to purchase soda ash from third-party sources, if it is available, to fulfill these obligations, incur capital expenditures to re-open the mine and/or negotiate settlements with the customers, which may include price reductions, the reduction of commitments, the extension of time for delivery or the termination of customers' contracts.  Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us. Ciner Enterprises indirectly owns and controls our general partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations. Our general partner and its affiliates, including Ciner Enterprises, have conflicts of interest with us and our unitholders and limited duties to us and our unitholders, and they may favor their own interests to the detriment of us and our unitholders.. Ciner Enterprises indirectly owns and controls our general partner and Ciner Holdings will appoint all of the directors of our general partner, who in turn will appoint all of our general partner's officers. Although our general partner has a duty to manage us in a manner that is beneficial to us and our unitholders, the executive officers and directors of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to Ciner Enterprises. Therefore, conflicts of interest will arise between Ciner Enterprises or any of its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us or any of our unitholders, on the. 31. Table of Contents. other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our common unitholders. These conflicts include the following situations:. • neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Ciner Enterprises to pursue a business strategy that favors us, and the directors and officers of Ciner Enterprises have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interests of Ciner Enterprises, which may be contrary to our interests. Ciner Enterprises may choose to shift the focus of its investment and growth to areas not served by our assets;. • our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as Ciner Enterprises, in exercising certain rights under our partnership agreement, which may effectively limit its duty to our unitholders;. • many of the officers and three of the directors of our general partner are also officers and/or directors of Ciner Corp, a subsidiary of Ciner Enterprises, and will owe fiduciary duties to Ciner Corp and Ciner Enterprises. The officers of our general partner that are also officers of Ciner Corp will  devote significant time to the business of Ciner Corp and will be compensated by Ciner Corp accordingly;. • our partnership agreement replaces the fiduciary duties that would otherwise be owed by our general partner with contractual standards governing its duties, limits our general partner's liabilities and restricts the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without such limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty;. • except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval;. • our largest customer is ANSAC, of which our affiliate, Ciner Corp, is one of three members, and certain officers of our general partner periodically serve as chairman of ANSAC;. • Ciner Enterprises and its affiliates are not limited in their ability to compete with us and may compete directly with us for acquisition opportunities and customers.  For example, we expect to face competition from Ciner Group's trona-based soda ash production in Turkey in the next several years as new capacity is brought online;. • our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuances of additional partnership securities and the level of reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that we distribute to our unitholders;. • our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditure and whether a capital expenditure is classified as a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an expansion or investment capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus. Our partnership agreement does not set a limit on the amount of maintenance capital expenditures that our general partner may determine to be necessary or appropriate. Please read Part II, Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Capital Expenditures\" for a discussion regarding when a capital expenditure constitutes a maintenance capital expenditure or an expansion capital expenditure. This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders;. • our general partner may cause us to borrow funds to pay cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make incentive distributions;. • our partnership agreement permits us to classify up to $20.0 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non-working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus. This cash may be used to fund distributions or to our general partner in respect of the incentive distribution rights;. • our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us;. • our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay our general partner or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or from entering into additional contractual arrangements with its affiliates on our behalf;. • our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations;. • our general partner may exercise its right to call and purchase our common units if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units;. • our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations that it and its affiliates owe to us, including Ciner Corp's obligations under the services agreement, dated October 25, 2015, among the Partnership, or general partner and Ciner Corp \"the Service Agreement\" and its commercial agreement with us;. • our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us;. 32. Table of Contents. • our general partner may transfer its incentive distribution rights without unitholder approval; and. • our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our general partner's incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner or the unitholders. Any such election may result in lower distributions to the common unitholders in certain situations.. We expect that we will distribute substantially all of our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions.. We expect that we will distribute substantially all of our available cash to our unitholders and may rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund any acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. If we are unable to finance growth externally, our cash distribution policy will impair our ability to grow.. In addition, because we intend to distribute substantially all of our available cash, we may not grow as quickly as businesses that reinvest their cash to expand ongoing operations. Moreover, our maintenance capital expenditures do not include actual or estimated capital expenditures for replacement of our trona reserves. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement or the Revolving Credit Facility on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy will increase our interest expense, which, in turn, may impact the cash that we have available to distribute to our unitholders.. Our partnership agreement does not contain a requirement for us to pay distributions to our unitholders, and we do not guarantee that we will pay the minimum quarterly distribution (as defined in our partnership agreement) or any distribution on the units in any quarter.. Our partnership agreement does not contain a requirement for us to pay distributions to our unitholders, and we do not guarantee that we will pay the minimum quarterly distribution or any distribution on the units in any quarter.. Our partnership agreement replaces our general partner's fiduciary duties to holders of our common units with contractual standards governing its duties.. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that eliminate and replace the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by Delaware law regarding fiduciary duty and replace those duties with several different contractual standards. For example, our partnership agreement permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner, free of any duties to us and our unitholders other than the implied contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing, which means that a court will enforce the reasonable expectations of the partners where the language in the partnership agreement does not provide for a clear course of action. This provision entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires and relieves it of any duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our limited partners. Examples of decisions that our general partner may make in its individual capacity include:. • how to allocate business opportunities among us and its affiliates;. • whether to exercise its limited call right;. • whether to seek approval of the resolution of a conflict of interest by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner;. • how to exercise its voting rights with respect to the units it owns;. • whether to exercise its registration rights;. • whether to elect to reset target distribution levels;. • whether to transfer the incentive distribution rights or any units it owns to a third party; and. • whether or not to consent to any merger, consolidation or conversion of the partnership or amendment to the partnership agreement.. By purchasing a common unit, a unitholder is treated as having consented to the provisions in the partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above.. 33. Table of Contents. Our partnership agreement restricts the remedies available to holders of our units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under Delaware law regarding fiduciary duty under state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement provides that:. • whenever our general partner, the board of directors of our general partner or any committee thereof (including the conflicts committee) makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in their respective capacities, our general partner, the board of directors of our general partner and any committee thereof (including the conflicts committee), as applicable, is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith, meaning that it subjectively believed that the decision was in the best interests of our partnership, and, except as specifically provided by our partnership agreement, will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by our partnership agreement, Delaware law, or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity;. • our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for a decision made in its capacity as a general partner so long as such decisions are made in good faith;. • our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners resulting from any act or omission unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or its officers and directors, as the case may be, acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and. • our general partner will not be in breach of its obligations under the partnership agreement or its duties to us or our limited partners if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is:. <U+25E6> approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner, although our general partner is not obligated to seek such approval;. <U+25E6> approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding common units, excluding any common units owned by our general partner and its affiliates;. <U+25E6> determined by the board of directors of our general partner to be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties; or. <U+25E6> determined by the board of directors of our general partner to be fair and reasonable to us, taking into account the totality of the relationships among the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly favorable or advantageous to us.. In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, any determination by our general partner or the conflicts committee must be made in good faith. If an affiliate transaction or the resolution of a conflict of interest is not approved by our common unitholders or the conflicts committee and the board of directors of our general partner determines that the resolution or course of action taken with respect to such affiliate transaction or conflict of interest satisfies either of the standards set forth in the third and fourth bullets above, then it will be presumed that, in making its decision, the board of directors acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the partnership challenging such determination, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption.. Ciner Enterprises and other affiliates of our general partner are not restricted in their ability to compete with us.. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will be restricted from engaging in any business activities other than acting as our general partner and those activities incidental to its ownership of interests in us. Affiliates of our general partner, including Ciner Enterprises and its other subsidiaries, are not prohibited from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Ciner Enterprises may make investments in and purchases of entities that acquire, own and operate other soda ash producing assets. Ciner Enterprises will be under no obligation to make any acquisition opportunities available to us. Moreover, while Ciner Enterprises may offer us the opportunity to buy additional assets from it, it is under no contractual obligation to accept any offer we might make with respect to such opportunity.. Pursuant to the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our general partner or any of its affiliates, including its executive officers and directors and Ciner Enterprises. Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or. 34. Table of Contents. acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our general partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our common unitholders.. Our general partner, or any transferee holding a majority of the incentive distribution rights, may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the minimum quarterly distribution (as defined in our partnership agreement) and target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights, without the approval of the conflicts committee of our general partner or the holders of our common units. This election could result in lower distributions to holders of our common units in certain situations.. The holder or holders of a majority of the incentive distribution rights, which is initially our general partner, have the right, at any time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and it has received incentive distributions at the highest level to which it is entitled (48.0%) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters (and the amount of each such distribution did not exceed adjusted operating surplus for each such quarter), to reset the minimum quarterly distribution and the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our cash distribution at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following such a reset election, the minimum quarterly distribution will be reset to an amount equal to the average cash distribution per unit for the two fiscal quarters immediately preceding the reset election (such amount is referred to as the \"reset minimum quarterly distribution\"), and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution. Our general partner has the right to transfer the incentive distribution rights at any time, in whole or in part, and any transferee holding a majority of the incentive distribution rights will have the same rights as our general partner with respect to resetting target distributions.. In the event of a reset of our minimum quarterly distribution and target distribution levels, our general partner will be entitled to receive, in the aggregate, a number of common units equal to that number of common units that would have entitled the holder of such units to an aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the two-quarter period prior to the reset election equal to the distribution to our general partner on the incentive distribution rights in the quarter prior to the reset election prior two quarters. Our general partner will also be issued the number of general partner units necessary to maintain its general partner interest in us that existed immediately prior to the reset election (approximately 2.0%). We anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion. However, our general partner or a transferee could also exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may, therefore, desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive incentive distributions based on target distribution levels that are less certain in the then-current business environment. This risk could increase if our incentive distribution rights have been transferred to a third-party. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience dilution in the amount of cash distributions that they otherwise would have received had we not issued new common units to our general partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels.. Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to appoint our general partner or its directors, which could reduce the price at which our common units will trade.. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. Unitholders will have no right on an annual or ongoing basis to appoint our general partner or its board of directors. The board of directors of our general partner, including the independent directors, is chosen entirely by Ciner Holdings as a result of its ownership in our general partner and not by our unitholders. As a result of these limitations, the secondary market price at which the common units will trade could decline because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Unlike publicly traded corporations, we will not conduct annual meetings of our unitholders to appoint directors or to conduct other matters routinely conducted at annual meetings of stockholders of corporations. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders' ability to influence the manner or direction of management.. Even if holders of our common units are dissatisfied, they cannot initially remove our general partner without its consent.. If our unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have limited ability to remove our general partner. The vote of the holders of at least 662/3% of all outstanding common units voting together as a single class is required to remove our general partner. As of March 2, 2018, Ciner Holdings owned 14,551,000 common units, which constitutes an aggregate of 73.8% of the common units in us.. 35. Table of Contents. Our general partner interest or the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets or otherwise without the consent of our unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of Ciner Enterprises or, another entity that controls Ciner Enterprises, to transfer or otherwise dispose of the corresponding indirect ownership interest in our general partner to a third party. In such a situation, the new owner of our general partner would be in a position to replace the board of directors and executive officers of our general partner with its own designees and thereby exert significant control over the decisions taken by the board of directors and executive officers of our general partner. This effectively permits a \"change of control\" without the vote or consent of our unitholders.. The incentive distribution rights held by our general partner, or indirectly held by Ciner Enterprises, may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.. Our general partner or Ciner Enterprises may transfer the incentive distribution rights to a third party at any time without the consent of our unitholders. If Ciner Enterprises transfers the incentive distribution rights to a third party but retains its ownership interest in our general partner, our general partner may not have the same incentive to grow our partnership and increase quarterly distributions to unitholders over time as it would if Ciner Enterprises had retained ownership of the incentive distribution rights. For example, a transfer of incentive distribution rights by Ciner Enterprises could reduce the likelihood of Ciner Enterprises accepting offers made by us to purchase assets owned by it, as it would have less of an economic incentive to grow our business, which in turn would impact our ability to grow our asset base.. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price.. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price equal to the greater of (1) the average of the daily closing price of the common units over the 20 trading days preceding the date three days before notice of exercise of the call right is first mailed and (2) the highest per-unit price paid by our general partner or any of its affiliates for common units during the 90-day period preceding the date such notice is first mailed. We refer to this right in this Report as the limited call right. As a result, unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may receive no return or a negative return on their investment. Unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. Our general partner is not obligated to obtain a fairness opinion regarding the value of the common units to be repurchased by it upon exercise of the limited call right. There is no restriction in our partnership agreement that prevents our general partner from issuing additional common units and exercising its limited call right. If our general partner exercised its limited call right, the effect would be to take us private and, if the units were subsequently deregistered, we would no longer be subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. As of March 2, 2018, Ciner Holdings owned an aggregate of 73.8% of our common units.. We may issue additional units, including units ranking senior to common units, without unitholder approval, which would dilute existing unitholder ownership interests.. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. Any additional partnership interests that we issue may be senior to the common units in right of distribution, liquidation and voting. The issuance of additional common units or other equity interests of equal or senior rank will have the following effects:. • our existing unitholders' proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease;. • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease;. • because the amount payable to holders of incentive distribution rights is based on a percentage of the total cash available for distribution, the distributions to holders of incentive distribution rights will increase even if the per unit distribution on common units remains the same;. • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase;. • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished;. • the market price of the common units may decline;. • the amounts available for distributions to our common unitholders may be reduced or eliminated; and. • the claims of the common unitholders to our assets in the event of our liquidations may be subordinated.. 36. Table of Contents. Our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our obligations.. Our general partner intends to limit its liability under contractual arrangements so that the counterparties to such arrangements have recourse only against our assets, and not against our general partner or its assets. Our general partner may therefore cause us to incur indebtedness or other obligations that are nonrecourse to our general partner. Our partnership agreement permits our general partner to limit its liability, even if we could have obtained more favorable terms without the limitation on liability. In addition, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify our general partner to the extent that it incurs obligations on our behalf. Any such reimbursement or indemnification payments would reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders.. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units.. Our partnership agreement restricts unitholders' voting rights by providing that any units held by a person or group that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner and its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter.. Cost reimbursements due to our general partner and its affiliates for services provided to us or on our behalf will reduce our earnings and therefore our ability to distribute cash to our unitholders. The amount and timing of such reimbursements will be determined by our general partner.. Prior to making any distribution on the common units, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all expenses they incur and payments they make on our behalf. Our partnership agreement does not set a limit on the amount of expenses for which our general partner and its affiliates may be reimbursed. These expenses include salary, bonus, incentive compensation and other amounts paid to persons who perform services for us or on our behalf pursuant to the Services Agreement and expenses allocated to our general partner by its affiliates. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will determine in good faith the expenses that are allocable to us, including those allocated to us pursuant to the Services Agreement. The reimbursement of expenses and payment of fees, if any, to our general partner and its affiliates will reduce our earnings and therefore our ability to distribute cash to our unitholders.. Your liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business.. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law, and we conduct business primarily in Wyoming and Georgia. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some jurisdictions. You could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if you were a general partner if a court or government agency were to determine that:. • we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state's partnership statute; or. • your right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute \"control\" of our business.. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions and in certain circumstances may be personally liable for the obligations of the partnership.. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution to our unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that, for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received a distribution and who knew at the time of such distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Transferees of common units are liable both for the obligations of the transferor to make contributions to the partnership that were known to the transferee at the time of transfer and for those obligations that were unknown if the liabilities could have been determined from the partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted.. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, we will not be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, including certain accounting standards, an auditor attestation report on management's assessment of internal control over financial reporting, and disclosure about our executive compensation, that apply to other public companies.. We are classified as an emerging growth company. The JOBS Act contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for emerging growth companies, including certain requirements relating to accounting standards and compensation disclosure. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, unlike other public companies, we will not be. 37. Table of Contents. required to (1) provide an auditor's attestation report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of our system of internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002; (2) comply with any new requirements adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or the PCAOB, requiring mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor's report in which the auditor would be required to provide additional information about the audit and the financial statements of the issuer; (3) comply with any new audit rules adopted by the PCAOB after April 5, 2012 unless the SEC determines otherwise; (4) provide certain disclosure regarding executive compensation required of larger public companies or (5) hold unitholder advisory votes on executive compensation. We have chosen to \"opt out\" of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards, and as a result, we will comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. The JOBS Act provides that our decision to opt out of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards is irrevocable. If we fail to develop or maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential unitholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our units.. We are an emerging growth company and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common units less attractive to investors.. We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the JOBS Act, and we have taken advantage and may in the future take advantage of certain temporary exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not \"emerging growth companies,\" including not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We cannot predict if investors will find our common units less attractive if we continue to rely on this exemption. If some investors find our common units less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common units, and the secondary market price of our common units may be more volatile.. The New York Stock Exchange does not require a publicly-traded partnership like us to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements.. Our common units are listed on the NYSE under the symbol \"CINR.\" Because we are a publicly-traded partnership, the NYSE does not require us to have a majority of independent directors on our general partner's board of directors or to establish a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee. For example, while our independent directors advise on Ciner Corp's compensation of our executive officers, such compensation decisions are not ultimately approved by a committee composed solely of independent directors. Accordingly, unitholders do not have the same protections afforded to certain corporations that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements.. We incur increased costs as a result of being a publicly-traded partnership.. As a publicly-traded partnership, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur prior to becoming public. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and the NYSE, require publicly-traded entities to adopt various corporate governance practices that further increase our costs. These compliance requirements and costs will further increase once we are no longer an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the JOBS Act, which will occur December 31, 2018 at the latest, as we will need to comply with additional disclosure and reporting requirements, including an attestation report on internal control over financing reporting as of December 31, 2018 issued by our independent registered public accounting firm, and providing additional information regarding executive compensation in our Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2018.  Before we are able to make distributions to our unitholders, we must first pay or reserve cash for our expenses, including the costs of being a publicly-traded partnership. As a result, the amount of cash we have available for distribution to our unitholders is affected by the costs associated with being a public company.. The market price of our common units could be adversely affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common units in the public markets, including sales by our existing unitholders.. Under our partnership agreement, we have agreed to register for resale under the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws any common units or other limited partner interests proposed to be sold by our general partner or any of its affiliates or their assignees if an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is not otherwise available.  These registration rights continue for two years following any withdrawal or removal of our general partner. The sale or disposition of a substantial number of our common units in the public markets could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common units or could impair our ability to obtain capital through an offering of equity securities. We do not know whether any such sales would be made in the public market or in private placements, nor do we know what impact such potential or actual sales would have on our unit price in the future.. 38. Table of Contents. Our unitholders who fail to furnish certain information requested by our general partner or who our general partner, upon receipt of such information, determines are not eligible citizens are not entitled to receive distributions or allocations of income or loss on their common units and their common units will be subject to redemption.. Our general partner may require each limited partner to furnish information about his nationality, citizenship or related status.  If a limited partner fails to furnish information about his nationality, citizenship or other related status within 30 days after a request for the information or our general partner determines after receipt of the information that the limited partner is not an eligible citizen, the limited partner may be treated as a non-citizen assignee.  A non-citizen assignee does not have the right to direct the voting of his units and may not receive distributions in kind upon our liquidation.  Furthermore, we have the right to redeem all of the common units of any holder that is not an eligible citizen or fails to furnish the requested information.  The redemption price will be paid in cash or by delivery of a promissory note, as determined by our general partner.. We are dependent on information technology and our systems and infrastructure face certain risks, including cybersecurity risks and data leakage risks.. We are dependent on information technology systems and infrastructure. Any significant breakdown, invasion, destruction or interruption of these systems by employees, others with authorized access to our systems, or unauthorized persons could negatively impact operations. There is also a risk that we could experience a business interruption, theft of information, or reputational damage as a result of a cyber-attack, such as an infiltration of a data center, or data leakage of confidential information either internally or at our third-party providers. While we have invested in the protection of our data and information technology to reduce these risks and periodically test the security of our information systems network, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business.. The implementation of our replacement Enterprise Resource Planning information systems may negatively impact our operations.. We are currently in the process of implementing a replacement Enterprise Resource Planning (\"ERP\") business solution to replace our existing ERP system for financial reporting and other services. It is our intent through this ERP implementation to integrate the major facets of our organization in order to improve planning, development, processes, sales, human resources management and other applications as they affect our evolving business model. Any failure(s) during the implementation process of this replacement ERP solution to develop, implement or maintain effective internal controls or to improve our internal controls could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Given the difficulties inherent in the design and operation of internal controls over a replacement ERP system implementation, we can provide no assurance as to our, or our independent registered public accounting firm's conclusions about the effectiveness of our internal controls, and we may incur significant costs in our efforts to comply with Section 404 once we cease to be an emerging growth company. Ineffective internal controls could subject us to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of confidence in our reported financial information, which could have an adverse effect on our business and would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common units.. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders. Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") were to treat us as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or we were otherwise subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation, then our ability to distribute cash to our unitholders could be substantially reduced.. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Despite the fact that we are organized as a limited partnership under Delaware law, we will be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes unless we satisfy a \"qualifying income\" requirement. Based upon our current operations, we believe we satisfy the qualifying income requirement. Failing to meet the qualifying income requirement or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity.. If we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would pay U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate and we would also likely pay additional state and local income taxes at varying rates. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, which would be taxable as dividends for U.S. federal income tax purposes to the extent paid out of our current or accumulated earnings and profits as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits recognized by us would flow through to our unitholders. Because tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced.. At the state level, several states have been evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. Imposition of a material amount of any of these taxes in the jurisdictions in. 39. Table of Contents. which we own assets or conduct business could substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. If we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subjected to a material amount of entity-level taxation, there would be a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units.. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for U.S. federal, state or local income tax purposes, the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us.. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis.. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. For example, from time to time, members of Congress have proposed and considered substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that would affect publicly traded partnerships, including elimination of partnership tax treatment for publicly traded partnerships.. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the exception for certain publicly traded partnerships to be treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes. and could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units.. In addition, Treasury Regulations under Section 7704(d)(1)(E) of the Code that apply to taxable years beginning on or after January 19, 2017 interpret the scope of the qualifying income requirement for publicly traded partnerships by providing industry-specific guidance. We believe the income that we treat as qualifying satisfies the requirements under these regulations. However, there are no assurances that the regulations will not be revised to take a position that is contrary to our interpretation of current law.. Unitholders are required to pay taxes on their respective shares of our income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us.. Each unitholder is treated as a partner to whom we will allocate taxable income even if the unitholder does not receive any cash distributions from us. Unitholders are required to pay U.S. federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes, on their respective shares of our taxable income, whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their respective shares of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax due from them with respect to that income.. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected.. If our unitholders sell their common units, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and our unitholders tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of their allocable share of our net taxable income result in a decrease in their tax basis in their common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units they sell will, in effect, become taxable income to them if they sell such units at a price greater than their tax basis in those units, even if the price they receive is less than their original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture of depreciation, depletion or certain other expense deductions and certain other items. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of our liabilities, if they sell their units, they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash they receive from the sale.. Unitholders may be subject to limitations on their ability to deduct interest expense we incur.. Pursuant to recently enacted legislation our ability to deduct business interest expense will be limited for federal income tax purposes to an amount equal to our business interest income and 30% of our \"adjusted taxable income\" during the taxable year computed without regard to any business interest income or expense, and in the case of taxable years beginning before 2022, any deduction allowable for depreciation, amortization, or depletion. Business interest expense that we are not entitled to fully deduct will be allocated to each unitholder as excess business interest and can be carried forward by the unitholder to successive taxable years and used to offset any excess taxable income allocated by us to the unitholder. Any excess business interest expense allocated to a unitholder will reduce the unitholder's tax basis in its partnership interest in the year of the allocation even if the expense does not give rise to a deduction to the unitholder in that year.. Tax-exempt entities face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts, or \"IRAs\", raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from U.S. federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them.. 40. Table of Contents. Tax-exempt entities with multiple unrelated trades or businesses cannot  aggregate  losses from one unrelated trade or business to offset income from another to reduce total unrelated business taxable income. As a result, it may not be possible for tax-exempt entities to utilize losses from an investment in us to offset unrelated business taxable income from another unrelated trade or business and vice versa. Tax-exempt entities should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units.. Non-U.S. unitholders will be subject to U.S. federal income taxes and withholding with respect to income and gain from owning our common units.. Non-U.S. persons are generally taxed and subject to U.S. federal income tax filing requirements on income effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business. Income allocated to our unitholders and, under recently enacted legislation, any gain from the sale of our units will generally be considered to be \"effectively connected\" with a U.S. trade or business. As a result, distributions to a non-U.S. unitholder will be subject to withholding at the highest applicable effective tax rate and a non-U.S. unitholder who sells or otherwise disposes of a common unit will also be subject to federal income tax on the gain realized from the sale or disposition of that unit.. Recently enacted legislation also imposes a federal income tax withholding obligation of 10% of the amount realized upon a non-U.S. person's sale or exchange of an interest in a partnership that is engaged in a U.S. trade or business. However, application of this withholding rule to dispositions of publicly traded partnership interests has been temporarily suspended by the IRS until regulations or other guidance have been issued. Non-U.S. persons should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units.. If the IRS contests the U.S. federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and our cash flow available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced.. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the conclusions of our counsel expressed in this Annual Report or from the positions we take, and the IRS's position may ultimately be sustained. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of our counsel's conclusions or the positions we take and such positions may not ultimately be sustained. A court may not agree with some or all of our counsel's conclusions or the positions we take. Any contest by the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our distributable cash flow.. Legislation applicable to partnership tax years beginning after 2017 alters the procedures for auditing large partnerships and for assessing and collecting taxes due (including penalties and interest) as a result of a partnership-level federal income tax audit. If the IRS makes audit adjustments to our partnership tax returns, to the extent possible under the new rules our general partner may elect to either pay the taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly to the IRS in the year in which the audit is completed or, if we are eligible, issue a revised information statement to each unitholder and former unitholder with respect to an audited and adjusted partnership tax return. Although our general partner may elect to have our unitholders and former unitholders take such audit adjustment into account and pay any resulting taxes (including applicable penalties or interest) in accordance with their interests in us during the tax year under audit, there can be no assurance that such election will be practical, permissible or effective in all circumstances. If we make payments of taxes and any penalties and interest directly to the IRS in the year in which the audit is completed, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced, in which case our current unitholders may bear some or all of the tax liability resulting from such audit adjustment, even if the unitholders did not own units in us during the tax year under audit.. We treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units.. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, our depreciation, depletion and amortization positions may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to a unitholder's tax returns.. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. We generally prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our common units based upon the ownership of our common units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular common unit is transferred. Although Treasury Regulations allow publicly traded partnerships to use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders, such tax items must be prorated on a daily basis and these regulations do not specifically authorize all aspects our proration method. If the IRS were to successfully challenge our proration method, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss, and deduction among our unitholders.. 41. Table of Contents. A unitholder whose common units are the subject of a securities loan (e.g., a loan to a \"short seller\" to cover a short sale of common units) may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, the unitholder would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.. Because there is no tax concept of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose common units are the subject of a securities loan may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units. In that case, the unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Our unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to consult a tax advisor to discuss whether it is advisable to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from loaning their common units.. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies in determining a unitholder's allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction. The IRS may challenge these methodologies or the resulting allocations, and such a challenge could adversely affect the value of our common units.. In determining the items of income, gain, loss and deduction allocable to our unitholders, we must routinely determine the fair market value of our assets. Although we may from time to time consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, we make many fair market value estimates ourselves using a methodology based on the market value of our common units as a means to determine the fair market value of our assets. The IRS may challenge these valuation methods and the resulting allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction.. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the timing or amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders' sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions.. As a result of investing in our common units, our unitholders may become subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire properties.. In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, our unitholders may be subject to other taxes, including state and local income taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or control property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states or foreign jurisdictions that impose a personal income tax. It is a unitholder's responsibility to file all U.S. federal, foreign, state and local tax returns.. Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") could have a material effect on our balance sheet, revenue and result of operations, and could require a significant expenditure of time, attention and resources, especially by senior management.. Our accounting and financial reporting policies conform to GAAP, which are periodically revised and/or expanded. The application of accounting principles is also subject to varying interpretations over time. Accordingly, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards or comply with revised interpretations that are issued from time to time by various parties, including accounting standard setters and those who interpret the standards, such as the FASB and the SEC and our independent registered public accounting firm. Such new financial accounting standards may result in significant changes that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which supersedes nearly all existing GAAP regarding revenue recognition. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases, which requires all operating leases with lease terms longer than twelve months be recorded as lease assets and lease liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. Implementing changes required by new standards, requirements or laws likely will require a significant expenditure of time, attention and resources. It is impossible to completely predict the impact, if any, on us of future changes to accounting standards and financial reporting and corporate governance requirements.. Refer to Note 2 \"Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements\" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these new accounting standards, including the implementation status and potential impact to our consolidated financial statements.. 42. Table of Contents"
