[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Set forth below are certain risk factors that we believe are material to our stockholders. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and reputation could be harmed. You should also consider these risk factors when you read \"forward-looking statements\" elsewhere in this report. You can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as \"may,\" \"hope,\" \"should,\" \"expect,\" \"plan,\" \"anticipate,\" \"intend,\" \"believe,\" \"estimate,\" \"predict,\" \"potential\" or \"continue,\" the negative of those terms or other comparable terminology. Forward-looking statements are only predictions and can be adversely affected if any of the following risks occur:. Some of our end-markets are cyclical, which may cause us to experience fluctuations in revenues or operating results.. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in revenues and operating results due to economic and business cycles. We sell our products principally to aerospace, military, commercial aircraft, Oil & Gas exploration, transmission and refining, power generation, chemical processing and maritime markets. Although we serve a variety of markets to avoid a dependency on any one, a significant downturn in any one of these markets could cause a material reduction in our revenues that could be difficult to offset. In addition, decreased market demand typically results in excess manufacturing capacity among our competitors which, in turn, results in pricing pressure. As a consequence, a significant downturn in our markets can result in lower revenues and profit margins.. 8. In particular, our Energy businesses are cyclical in nature as the worldwide demand for oil and gas fluctuates.  Energy sector activity can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time, particularly in the United States, North Sea, the Middle East, Brazil and Australia, amongst other regions. When worldwide demand for oil and gas is depressed, the demand for our products used in maintenance and repair of existing oil and gas applications, as well as exploration or new oil and gas project applications, is reduced.  A decline in oil price will have a similar impact on the demand for our products, particularly in markets, such as North America, where the cost of oil production is relatively higher.  Demand for our products and services depends on a number of factors, including the number of oil & gas wells being drilled, the maintenance and condition of industry assets, the volume of exploration and production activities and the capital expenditures of asset owners and maintenance companies. The willingness of asset owners and operators to make capital expenditures to produce and explore for sources of energy will continue to be influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, including:. • the current and anticipated future prices for energy sources, including oil and natural gas, solar, wind and nuclear;. • level of excess production capacity;. • cost of exploring for and producing energy sources;. • worldwide economic activity and associated demand for energy sources;. • availability and access to potential hydrocarbon resources;. • national government political priorities;. • development of alternate energy sources; and. • environmental regulations.. As a result, we historically have generated lower revenues and profits in periods of declining demand or prices for crude oil and natural gas. In the latter half of fiscal year 2014 continuing into 2017, our operating results were adversely affected due to dramatic decreases in the price of oil and our customers reduced their spending on our products as level of activity fell. Therefore, results of operations for any particular period are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations for any future period.  Any future downward pricing pressure on crude oil could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations.. We face significant competition and, if we are not able to respond, our revenues may decrease.. We face significant competition from a variety of competitors in each of our markets. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than we do. New competitors also could enter our markets. We consider product quality, performance, customer service, on-time delivery, price, distribution capabilities and breadth of product offerings to be the primary competitive factors in our markets. Our competitors may be able to offer more attractive pricing, duplicate our strategies, or develop enhancements to products that could offer performance features that are superior to our products. Competitive pressures, including those described above, and other factors could adversely affect our competitive position, resulting in a loss of market share or decreases in prices, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. In addition, some of our competitors are based in foreign countries and have cost structures and prices based on foreign currencies.. The majority of our transactions are denominated in either U.S. dollar or Euro currency.  Accordingly, currency fluctuations could cause our U.S. dollar and/or Euro priced products to be less competitive than our competitors' products that are priced in other currencies.. If we cannot continue operating our manufacturing facilities at current or higher levels, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. We operate a number of manufacturing facilities for the production of our products. The equipment and management systems necessary for such operations may break down, perform poorly or fail, resulting in fluctuations in manufacturing efficiencies. Such fluctuations may affect our ability to deliver products to our customers on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.  We have continuously enhanced and improved Lean manufacturing techniques as part of the CIRCOR Operating System. We believe that this process produces meaningful reductions in manufacturing costs. However, continuous improvement of these techniques may cause short-term inefficiencies in production. If we ultimately are unable to continuously improve our processes, our results of operations may suffer.. Our acquisition of the fluid handling business of Colfax Corporation (FH) and the integration of its business, operations and employees with our own may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected, and the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the acquisition may not be fully realized, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. 9. We completed the acquisition of FH on December 11, 2017. The success of the acquisition, including the achievement of anticipated benefits and cost savings of the acquisition, is subject to a number of uncertainties and will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully combine and integrate FH's business into our business in an efficient and effective manner. Potential difficulties that we may encounter in the integration process include the following:. • the inability to successfully integrate FH's business into our own in a manner that permits us to achieve the cost savings and operating synergies anticipated to result from the acquisition, which could result in the anticipated benefits of the acquisition not being realized partly or wholly in the time frame currently anticipated or at all;. • loss of key management and technical personnel;. • integrating personnel, IT systems and corporate, finance and administrative infrastructures of FH into our company  while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality products and services;. • coordinating and integrating our internal operations, compensation programs, policies and procedures, and corporate structures;. • potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen or increased costs and expenses;. • the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying expectations regarding potential synergies and the integration process;. • incurring significant acquisition-related costs and expenses;. • performance shortfalls as a result of the diversion of management's attention caused by integrating operations; and. • servicing the substantial debt that we have incurred in connection with the acquisition.. Any of these factors could result in us failing to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, on the expected timeline or at all, and could adversely impact our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Implementation of our acquisition strategy may not be successful, which could affect our ability to increase our revenues or could reduce our profitability.. One of our strategies is to increase our revenues and expand our markets through acquisitions that will provide us with complementary products and access to additional geographic markets. We expect to spend significant time and effort expanding our existing businesses and identifying, completing and integrating acquisitions. We expect to face competition for acquisition candidates that may limit the number of acquisition opportunities available to us and may result in higher acquisition prices. We cannot be certain that we will be able to identify, acquire or profitably manage additional companies or successfully integrate such additional companies without substantial costs, delays or other problems. Also, there can be no assurance that companies we acquire ultimately will achieve the revenues, profitability or cash flows, or generate the synergies upon which we justify our investment in them; as a result, any such under-performing acquisitions could result in impairment charges which would adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, acquisitions may involve a number of special risks, including: adverse effects on our reported operating results; use of cash; diversion of management's attention; loss of key personnel at acquired companies; or unanticipated management or operational problems or legal liabilities.. Implementation of our divestiture, restructuring, or simplification strategies may not be successful, which could affect our ability to increase our revenues or could reduce our profitability.. We also continually review our current business and products to attempt to maximize our performance. We may in the future deem it appropriate to pursue the divestiture of product lines or businesses as conditions dictate. Any divestiture may result in a dilutive impact to our future earnings if we are unable to offset the dilutive impacts from the loss of revenue associated with the divested assets or businesses, as well as significant write-offs, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A successful divestiture depends on various factors, including our ability to effectively transfer liabilities, contracts, facilities and employees to any purchaser, identify and separate the intellectual property to be divested from the intellectual property that we wish to retain, reduce fixed costs previously associated with the divested assets or business, and collect the proceeds from any divestitures. In addition, if customers of the divested business do not receive the same level of service from the new owners, this may adversely affect our other businesses to the extent that these customers also purchase other products offered by us. All of these efforts require varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations.. A focus of our Company is to simplify the way we are organized and the number of facilities we manage. We believe that such focus will reduce overhead structure, enhance operational synergies, and result in improved operating margins and customer service. Nevertheless, we may not achieve expected cost savings from restructuring and simplification activities and actual charges, costs and adjustments due to such activities may vary materially from our estimates. Our ability to realize anticipated cost savings, synergies, margin improvement, and revenue enhancements may be affected by a number of factors, including the following: our ability to effectively eliminate duplicative overhead, rationalize manufacturing capacity, synchronize. 10. information technology systems, consolidate warehousing and distribution facilities and shift production to more economical facilities; significant cash and non-cash integration and implementation costs or charges in order to achieve those cost savings, which could offset any such savings; and our ability to avoid labor disruption in connection with integration efforts or divestitures.. If we do not realize the expected benefits or synergies of any acquisition, divestiture, restructuring, or simplification activities, our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations could be negatively impacted.. If we are unable to continue operating successfully overseas or to successfully expand into new international markets, our revenues may decrease.. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from sales outside the United States. In addition, one of our key growth strategies is to sell our products in international markets not significantly served by us in portions of Europe, Latin America and Asia.  We market our products and services through direct sales, distributors, and technically trained commissioned representatives.  We may not succeed in our efforts to further penetrate these markets. Moreover, conducting business outside the United States is subject to additional risks, including currency exchange rate fluctuations; changes in regional, political or economic conditions, trade protection measures such as tariffs or import or export restrictions; and complex, varying and changing government regulations and legal standards and requirements, particularly with respect to price protection, competition practices, export control regulations and restrictions, customs and tax requirements, immigration, anti-boycott regulations, data privacy, intellectual property, anti-corruption and environmental compliance, including U.S. customs and export regulations and restrictions and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act,  and the occurrence of any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our operations.. If we cannot pass on higher raw material or manufacturing costs to our customers, we may become less profitable.. One of the ways we attempt to manage the risk of higher raw material and manufacturing costs is to increase selling prices to our customers. The markets we serve are extremely competitive and customers may not accept price increases or may look to alternative suppliers, which may negatively impact our profitability and revenues.. If our suppliers cannot provide us with adequate quantities of materials to meet our customers' demands on a timely basis or if the quality of the materials provided does not meet our standards, we may lose customers or experience lower profitability.. Some of our customer contracts require us to compensate those customers if we do not meet specified delivery obligations. We rely on numerous suppliers to provide us with our required materials and in many instances these materials must meet certain specifications. In addition, we continue to increase our dependence on lower cost foreign sources of raw materials, components, and, in some cases, completed products. Managing a geographically diverse supply base inherently poses significant logistical challenges. While we believe that we also have improved our ability to effectively manage a global supply base, a risk nevertheless exists that we could experience diminished supplier performance resulting in longer than expected lead times and/or product quality issues. The occurrence of such factors could have a negative impact on our ability to deliver products to customers within our committed time frames and could adversely impact our results of operations, financial conditions and cash flows.. Our international activities expose us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.. Our international manufacturing and sales activities expose us to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Such fluctuations could result in our (i) paying higher prices for certain imported goods and services, (ii) realizing lower prices for any sales denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, (iii) realizing lower net income, on a U.S. dollar basis, from our international operations due to the effects of translation from weakened functional currencies, and (iv) realizing higher costs to settle transactions denominated in other currencies. Any of these risks could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Our major foreign currency exposures involve the markets in Western Europe and Canada.. We may use forward contracts to help manage the currency risk related to certain business transactions denominated in foreign currencies. We primarily utilize forward exchange contracts with maturities of less than eighteen months. To the extent these transactions are completed, the contracts minimize our risk from exchange rate fluctuations because they offset gains and losses on the related foreign currency denominated transactions. However, there can be no assurances that we will be able to effectively utilize these forward exchange contracts in the future to offset significant risk related to fluctuations in currency. 11. exchange rates. In addition, there can be no assurances that the counter party to the contract will perform their contractual obligations to us to realize the anticipated benefits of the contracts.. If we experience delays in introducing new products or if our existing or new products do not achieve or maintain market acceptance, our revenues may decrease.. Our industries are characterized by: intense competition; changes in end-user requirements; technically complex products; and evolving product offerings and introductions.. We believe our future success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate or adapt to these factors and to offer, on a timely basis, products that meet customer demands. Failure to develop new and innovative products or to custom design existing products could result in the loss of existing customers to competitors or the inability to attract new business, either of which may adversely affect our revenues. The development of new or enhanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring the anticipation of technological and market trends. We may experience design, manufacturing, marketing or other difficulties, such as an inability to attract a sufficient number of qualified engineers, which could delay or prevent our development, introduction or marketing of new products or enhancements and result in unexpected expenses.. If we fail to manufacture and deliver high quality products in accordance with industry standards, we may lose customers.. Product quality and performance are a priority for our customers since many of our product applications involve caustic or volatile chemicals and, in many cases, involve processes that require precise control of fluids. Our products are used in the aerospace, military, commercial aircraft, analytical equipment, Oil & Gas exploration, transmission and refining, power generation, chemical processing and maritime industries. These industries require products that meet stringent performance and safety standards, such as the standards of the American Petroleum Institute, International Organization for Standardization, Underwriters' Laboratory, American National Standards Institute, American Society of Mechanical Engineers and the European Pressure Equipment Directive. If we fail to maintain and enforce quality control and testing procedures, our products will not meet these stringent performance and safety standards which are required by many of our customers. Non-compliance with the standards could result in a loss of current customers and damage our ability to attract new customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.. We depend on our key personnel and the loss of their services may adversely affect our business.. We believe that our success depends on our ability to hire new talent and the continued employment of our senior management team and other key personnel. If one or more members of our senior management team or other key personnel were unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, our business could be seriously harmed. In addition, if any of our key personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing company, some of our customers might choose to use the services of that competitor or those of a new company instead of our own. Other companies seeking to develop capabilities and products similar to ours may hire away some of our key personnel. If we are unable to maintain our key personnel and attract new employees, the execution of our business strategy may be hindered and our growth limited.. We face risks from product liability lawsuits that may adversely affect our business.. We, like other manufacturers, face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products results in personal injury, property damage or business interruption to our customers. We may be subjected to various product liability claims, including, among others, that our products include inadequate or improper instructions for use or installation, or inadequate warnings concerning the effects of the failure of our products. Although we maintain strict quality controls and procedures, including the testing of raw materials and safety testing of selected finished products, we cannot be certain that our products will be completely free from defect. In addition, in certain cases, we rely on third-party manufacturers for our products or components of our products. Although we have liability insurance coverage, we cannot be certain that this insurance coverage will continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost or, if available, will be adequate to cover any such liabilities. For example, liability insurance typically does not afford coverage for a design or manufacturing defect unless such defect results in injury to person or property. We generally attempt to contractually limit liability to our customers to risks that are insurable but are not always successful in doing so. Similarly, we generally seek to obtain contractual indemnification from our third-party suppliers, and for us to be added as an additional insured party under such parties' insurance policies. Any such indemnification or insurance is limited by its terms and, as a practical matter, is limited to the credit worthiness of the indemnifying or insuring party. In the event that we do not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification, product liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.. 12. We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and manage or support a variety of business processes, including operational and financial transactions and records, personal identifying information, payroll data and workforce scheduling information. We purchase some of our information technology from vendors, on whom our systems depend. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for the processing, transmission and storage of company and customer information. Although we have taken steps to protect the security of our information systems and the data maintained in those systems, it is possible that our safety and security measures will not prevent the systems' improper functioning or the improper access or disclosure of confidential or personally identifiable information such as in the event of cyber-attacks. Security breaches, including physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, ransomware, attacks by hackers and similar breaches can create system disruptions or shutdowns or the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. If company, personal or otherwise protected information is improperly accessed, tampered with or distributed, we may incur significant costs to remediate possible injury to the affected parties and we may be subject to sanctions and civil or criminal penalties if we are found to be in violation of the privacy or security rules under federal, state, or international laws protecting confidential information. Any failure to maintain proper functionality and security of our information systems could interrupt our operations, damage our reputation, subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. The trading price of our common stock continues to be volatile and investors in our common stock may experience substantial losses.. The trading price of our common stock may be, and, in the past, has been volatile. Our common stock could decline or fluctuate in response to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to: our failure to meet our performance estimates or performance estimates of securities analysts; changes in financial estimates of our revenues and operating results or buy/sell recommendations by securities analysts; the timing of announcements by us or our competitors concerning significant product line developments, contracts or acquisitions or publicity regarding actual or potential results or performance; fluctuation in our quarterly operating results caused by fluctuations in revenue and expenses; substantial sales of our common stock by our existing shareholders; general stock market conditions; and fluctuations in oil and gas prices or other economic or external factors. While we attempt in our public disclosures to provide forward-looking information in order to enable investors to anticipate our future performance, such information by its nature represents our good-faith forecasting efforts. In recent years, the unprecedented nature of oil prices, credit and financial crises and economic recessions, together with the uncertain depth and duration of these crises, has rendered such forecasting more difficult. As a result, our actual results have differed materially, and going forward could differ materially, from our forecasts, which could cause further volatility in the value of our common stock.. In recent years the stock market as a whole experienced dramatic price and volume fluctuations. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources.. The costs of complying with existing or future governmental regulations on importing and exporting practices and of curing any violations of these regulations, could increase our expenses, reduce our revenues or reduce our profitability.. We are subject to a variety of laws and international trade practices including regulations issued by the United States Bureau of Industry and Security, the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of State and the Department of Treasury. We cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international trading practices might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. Future regulations could limit the countries into which certain of our products may be sold or could restrict our access to, and increase the cost of obtaining products from, foreign sources. In addition, actual or alleged violations of such regulations could result in enforcement actions and/or financial penalties that could result in substantial costs.. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow, we may not be able to service our debt obligations, including making payments on our outstanding term loan.. Our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness when due, including the significant indebtedness that we have incurred in connection with the acquisition of FH, depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to. 13. general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our consolidated operations, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our outstanding debt, we may be required to, among other things:. • seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets;. • refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness;. • divert funds that would otherwise be invested in our operations;. • sell selected assets; or. • reduce or delay planned capital expenditures or operating expenditures.. Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt, which could negatively impact our financial results. In addition, we may not be able to obtain any such financing, refinancing or complete a sale of assets on economically favorable terms. In the case of financing or refinancing, favorable interest rates will be dependent on the health of the debt capital markets.. Our significant existing indebtedness could also have the effect, among other things, of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions, reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes or creating competitive disadvantages relative to other companies with lower debt levels.. Our credit agreement requires that we maintain certain ratios and limits our ability to issue equity, make acquisitions, incur debt, pay dividends, make investments, sell assets, merge or raise capital.. Our credit agreement, dated December 11, 2017, governs our indebtedness. This agreement includes provisions which place limitations on certain activities including our ability to: issue shares of our common stock; incur additional indebtedness; create any liens or encumbrances on our assets or make any guarantees; make certain investments; pay cash dividends above certain limits; or dispose of or sell assets or enter into a merger or a similar transaction.  These restrictions may limit our ability to operate our business and may prohibit or limit our ability to execute our business strategy, compete, enhance our operations, take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise or meet our capital needs. Furthermore, future debt instruments or other contracts could contain more restrictive financial or other covenants.  The breach of any of these covenants by us or the failure by us to meet any of these conditions or requirements could result in a default under any or all of our indebtedness.  If we are unable to service our indebtedness, our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations would be materially adversely affected.. Various restrictions and agreements could hinder a takeover of us which is not supported by our board of directors or which is leveraged.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws, as well as the Delaware General Corporation Law, contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control in a transaction that is not approved by our board of directors or that is on a leveraged basis or otherwise. These include provisions creating a staggered board, limiting the shareholders' powers to remove directors, and prohibiting shareholders from calling a special meeting or taking action by written consent in lieu of a shareholders' meeting. In addition, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by the shareholders, to set the terms of and to issue preferred stock. Issuing preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power of the owners of our common stock, including the loss of voting control to others.. Delaying or preventing a takeover could result in our shareholders ultimately receiving less for their shares by deterring potential bidders for our stock or assets.. A change in international governmental policies or restrictions could result in decreased availability and increased costs for certain components and finished products that we purchase from sources in foreign countries, which could adversely affect our profitability.. Like most manufacturers of flow control products, we attempt, where appropriate, to reduce costs by seeking lower cost sources of certain components and finished products. Many such sources are located in developing countries such as India and China, where a change in governmental approach toward U.S. trade could restrict the availability to us of such sources. In addition, periods of war or other international tension could interfere with international freight operations and hinder our ability to purchase such components and products. A decrease in the availability of these items could hinder our ability to timely meet our customers' orders. We attempt, when possible, to mitigate this risk by maintaining alternate sources for these components and products and by maintaining the capability to produce such items in our own manufacturing facilities. However, even when we are able to mitigate this risk, the cost of obtaining such items from alternate sources or producing them ourselves is often considerably greater, and a shift toward such higher cost production could therefore adversely affect our profitability.. 14. We, along with our customers and vendors, face the uncertainty in the public and private credit markets and in general economic conditions in the United States and around the world.. In recent years there has been at times disruption and general slowdown of the public and private capital and credit markets in the United States and around the world. Such conditions can adversely affect our revenue, results of operations and overall financial growth. Our business can be affected by a number of factors that are beyond our control such as general geopolitical, economic and business conditions and conditions in the financial services market, which each could materially impact our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Additionally, many lenders and institutional investors, at times, have reduced funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. A constriction on future lending by banks or investors could result in higher interest rates on future debt obligations or could restrict our ability to obtain sufficient financing to meet our long-term operational and capital needs or could limit our ability in the future to consummate strategic acquisitions. Any uncertainty in the credit markets could also negatively impact the ability of our customers and vendors to finance their operations which, in turn, could result in a decline in our sales and in our ability to obtain necessary raw materials and components, thus potentially having an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.. Terrorist activity and/or political instability around the world could cause economic conditions to deteriorate and adversely impact our businesses.. In the past, terrorist attacks have negatively impacted general economic, market and political conditions. In particular, the 2001 terrorist attacks, compounded with changes in the national economy, resulted in reduced revenues in the aerospace and general industrial markets in 2002 and 2003. Although economic conditions have improved considerably, additional terrorist acts, acts of war or political instability (wherever located around the world) could cause damage or disruption to our business, our facilities or our employees which could significantly impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks, political instability, and other acts of war or hostility, including the recent and current conflicts in Iraq, Afghanistan and the Middle East, have created many economic and political uncertainties, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations in ways that cannot presently be predicted. In addition, with manufacturing facilities located worldwide, including facilities located in North America, Western Europe, Morocco, and India, we may be impacted by terrorist actions not only against the United States but in other parts of the world as well. In some cases, we are not insured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts and acts of war.. The costs of complying with existing or future environmental regulations and curing any violations of these regulations could increase our expenses or reduce our profitability.. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws relating to the storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation, use and disposal of chemicals, solid and hazardous waste and other toxic and hazardous materials used to manufacture, or resulting from the process of manufacturing, our products. We cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our operations might be subject or the manner in which existing or future laws will be administered or interpreted. Future regulations could be applied to materials, products or activities that have not been subject to regulation previously. The costs of complying with new or more stringent regulations, or with more vigorous enforcement of these or existing regulations could be significant.. Environmental laws require us to maintain and comply with a number of permits, authorizations and approvals and to maintain and update training programs and safety data regarding materials used in our processes. Violations of these requirements could result in financial penalties and other enforcement actions. We also could be required to halt one or more portions of our operations until a violation is cured. Although we attempt to operate in compliance with these environmental laws, we may not succeed in this effort at all times. The costs of curing violations or resolving enforcement actions that might be initiated by government authorities could be substantial.. Regulations related to \"conflict minerals\" may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products.. Under the conflict minerals rule, public companies must disclose whether specified minerals, known as conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured. The rule, which became effective for 2013, requires a disclosure report to be filed by May 31st of each year, requires companies to perform due diligence, disclose and report whether or not such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo or an adjoining country. The conflicts mineral rule could affect sourcing at competitive prices and availability in sufficient quantities of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products, including tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten. The number of suppliers who provide conflict-free minerals may be limited. In addition, there may be material costs associated with complying with the. 15. disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as costs of possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. As our supply chain is complex, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the relevant minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our reputation. In addition, we may encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict-free, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage if we are unable to do so.. We may be adversely affected by comprehensive tax reform. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"Tax Act\") was signed into law. The Tax Act contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including reduction of the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, additional limitations on the tax deductibility of interest, substantial changes to the taxation of foreign earnings, immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, and modification or repeal of many business deductions and credits. Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the Tax Act is uncertain, and our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition, as well as the trading price of our Common Stock, could be adversely affected."
