[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The operation of our business, and the economic and regulatory climate in the U.S. and other regions of the world involve various elements of risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before making a decision whether to invest in the Company. This is a discussion of the risks that we believe are material to our business and does not include all risks, material or immaterial, that may possibly affect our business. Any of the following risks, and additional risks that are presently unknown to us or that we currently deem immaterial, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Strategic Risks. If the assumptions and analyses underlying our strategy and business plan, including with respect to market conditions, capital and liquidity, business strategy, and operations are incorrect, we may be unsuccessful in executing our strategy and business plan.. A number of strategic issues affect our business, including how we allocate our capital and liquidity, our business strategy, our funding models, and the quality and efficiency of operations. We developed our strategy and business plan based upon certain assumptions, analyses, and financial forecasts, including with respect to our capital levels, funding model, credit ratings, revenue growth, earnings, interest margins, expense levels, cash flow, credit losses, liquidity and financing sources, lines of business and geographic scope, acquisitions and divestitures, equipment residual values, capital expenditures, retention of key employees, and the overall strength and stability of general economic conditions. Financial forecasts are inherently subject to many uncertainties and are necessarily speculative, and it is likely that one or more of the assumptions and estimates that are the basis of these financial forecasts will not be accurate. Accordingly, our actual financial condition and results of operations may differ materially from what we have forecast and we may not be able to reach our goals and targets. If we are unable to implement our strategic initiatives effectively, we may need to refine, supplement, or modify our business plan and strategy in significant ways. If we are unable to fully implement our business plan and strategy, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may not be able to achieve the expected benefits from buying or selling a business or assets, which may have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations.. As part of our strategy and business plan, we may consider buying or selling a business or assets in order to manage our business, the products and services we offer, our asset levels, credit exposures, or liquidity position. There are a number of risks inherent in purchase and sale transactions, including the risk that we fail to identify or acquire key businesses or assets, that we fail to complete a pending transaction, that we fail to sell a business or assets that are considered non-strategic or high risk, that we overpay for an acquisition or receive inadequate consideration for a disposition, or that we fail to properly integrate an acquired company or to realize the anticipated benefits from the transaction. We acquired IMB HoldCo LLC and its subsidiary, OneWest Bank N.A., in 2015 and two businesses, NACCO SAS and Capital Direct Group, in 2014. As we have simplified our business over the last several years, we sold our Commercial Air business in April 2017 and most of our international financing and leasing businesses and our student lending and small business lending portfolios from 2014 to 2016. In 2017, we executed agreements to sell our NACCO SAS rail car leasing business, and our Financial Freedom reverse mortgage servicing business, including our reverse mortgage portfolio, and certain of our financings in Business Air.. In engaging in business acquisitions, CIT may decide to pay a premium over book and market values to complete the transaction, which may result in dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common share. If CIT uses substantial cash or other liquid assets or incurs substantial debt to acquire a business or assets, we could become more susceptible to economic downturns and competitive pressures.. Integrating the operations of an acquired entity can be difficult. As a result, CIT may not be able to fully achieve its strategic objectives and planned operating efficiencies in an acquisition. CIT and any target company typically will have different policies, procedures, and processes, including accounting, credit and other risk and reporting policies, and will utilize different information technology systems, which will required significant time, cost, and effort to integrate. CIT may also be exposed to other risks inherent in an acquisition, including the risk of unknown or contingent liabilities, changes in our credit, liquidity, interest rate or other risk profiles, potential asset quality issues, potential disruption of our existing business and diversion of management's time and attention, possible loss of key employees or customers of the acquired business, and the risk that certain items were not accounted for properly by the seller in accordance with financial accounting and reporting standards. If we fail to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product scope, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition, or if we are unable to adequately integrate the acquired business, or experience unexpected costs, changes in our risk profile, or disruption to our business, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. When we sell a business or assets, the agreement between the Company and the buyer typically contains representations and warranties, including with regard to the conduct of the business, the servicing practices, and compliance with laws and regulations, among others, and the agreement typically contains certain indemnifications to allocate risks among the parties and may be subject to certain caps and limitations. CIT may also retain certain pre-closing liabilities, including the cost of legacy and future litigation matters related to pre-closing actions. The terms of any agreement, including any representations and warranties, indemnifications or retained liabilities, may subject us to ongoing risks after the sale is completed and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We may incur losses on loans, securities and other acquired assets that are materially greater than reflected in our fair value adjustments.. When we account for acquisitions under the purchase method of accounting, we record the acquired assets and liabilities at fair value. All PCI loans are recorded at fair value based on the present value of their expected cash flows. We estimate cash flows. Table of Contents. CIT ANNUAL REPORT 2017   20. using internal credit, interest rate and prepayment risk models using assumptions about matters that are inherently uncertain. We may not realize the estimated cash flows or fair value of these loans. In addition, although the difference between the pre-acquisition carrying value of the credit-impaired loans and their expected cash flows - the \"non-accretable difference\" - is available to absorb future charge-offs, we may be required to increase our allowance for loan losses and related provision expense because of subsequent additional deterioration in these loans.. Competition from both traditional competitors and new market entrants may adversely affect our market share, profitability, and returns.. Our markets are highly competitive and are characterized by competitive factors that vary based upon product and geographic region. We have a wide variety of competitors that include captive and independent finance companies, commercial banks and thrift institutions, industrial banks, community banks, internet banks, leasing companies, hedge funds, business development companies, insurance companies, mortgage companies, manufacturers and vendors. Some of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulation we are and, therefore, may have greater flexibility in competing for business. In particular, the activity and prominence of so-called marketplace lenders and other technological financial service companies have grown significantly over recent years and is expected to continue growing.. We compete on the basis of pricing (including the interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits and the pricing for equipment leases), product terms and structure, the range of products and services offered, and the quality of customer service (including convenience and responsiveness to customer needs and concerns). The ability to access and use technology in the delivery of products and services to our customers is an increasingly important competitive factor in the financial services industry, and it is a critically important component to customer satisfaction.. If we are unable to address the competitive pressures that we face, we could lose market share, which could result in reduced net finance revenue and profitability and lower returns. On the other hand, if we meet those competitive pressures, it is possible that we could incur significant additional expense, experience lower returns due to compressed net finance revenue, or incur increased losses due to less rigorous risk standards.. Capital and Liquidity Risks. If we fail to maintain sufficient capital or adequate liquidity to meet regulatory capital guidelines, there could be an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. The Basel III Final Rule issued by the federal banking agencies requires BHCs and insured depository institutions to maintain more and higher quality capital than in the past. In addition, the federal banking agencies set minimum liquidity requirements for large banking organizations, which sets minimum levels of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets. See \"Item 1. Business Overview - Regulation - Banking Supervision and Regulation - Liquidity Requirements.\" The enhanced prudential supervision requirements imposed on large BHCs pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act also require a buffer of highly liquid assets based on projected stressed funding needs. The new capital standards could require CIT to maintain more and higher quality capital than previously expected and could limit our business activities (including lending) and our ability to expand organically or through acquisitions, to diversify our capital structure, or to pay dividends or otherwise return capital to shareholders. The new liquidity standards could also require CIT to hold higher levels of short-term investments, thereby limiting our ability to invest in longer-term or less liquid assets at higher yields. If we fail to maintain the appropriate capital levels or adequate liquidity, we could become subject to a variety of formal or informal enforcement actions, which may include restrictions on our business activities, including limiting lending and leasing activities, limiting the expansion of our business, either organically or through acquisitions, requiring the raising of additional capital, which may be dilutive to shareholders, or requiring prior regulatory approval before taking certain actions, such as payment of dividends or otherwise returning capital to shareholders. If we are unable to meet any of these capital or liquidity standards, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our Revolving Credit Facility also includes terms that require us to comply with regulatory capital requirements and maintain a Tier 1 regulatory capital ratio of at least 9.0%. If we are unable to satisfy these or any of the other relevant terms of the Revolving Credit Facility, the lenders could elect to terminate the Revolving Credit Facility and require us to repay outstanding borrowings. In such event, unless we are able to refinance the indebtedness coming due and replace the Revolving Credit Facility, we may not have sufficient liquidity for our business needs, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If we fail to maintain adequate liquidity or to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our obligations as they come due, whether due to a downgrade in our credit ratings or for any other reasons, it could adversely affect our future business operations.. CIT's liquidity is essential for the operation of our business. Our liquidity, and our ability to fund our activities through bank deposits or by issuing debt in the capital markets, could be affected by a number of factors, including market conditions, our capital structure and capital levels, our credit ratings, and the performance of our business. An adverse change in any of those factors, and particularly a downgrade in our credit ratings, could negatively affect CIT's liquidity and competitive position, increase our funding costs, or limit our access to the deposit markets or capital markets. Further, an adverse change in the performance of our business could have a negative impact on our operating cash flow. CIT's credit ratings are subject to ongoing review by the rating agencies, which consider a number of factors, including CIT's own financial strength, performance, prospects, and operations, as well as factors not within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. There can be no assurance that we will maintain or improve our current ratings, which are below investment grade at the holding company level. If we experience a substantial, unexpected, or prolonged change in the level or cost of liquidity, or fail to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our obligations, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Item 1A: Risk Factors. Table of Contents. 21   CIT ANNUAL REPORT 2017. Our business may be adversely affected if we fail to successfully expand our deposits at CIT Bank or if our aggregate amount of deposits decreases.. CIT Bank currently has a branch network with 70 branches, which offer a variety of deposit products. However, CIT also must rely on its online bank to raise additional deposits. Our ability to raise deposits and offer competitive interest rates on deposits is dependent on CIT Bank's capital levels, the size of its branch network, the quality and scope of its online banking platform, and its ability to attract lower cost demand deposits. Federal banking law generally prohibits a bank from accepting, renewing or rolling over brokered deposits, unless the bank is well-capitalized or it is adequately capitalized and obtains a waiver from the FDIC. There are also restrictions on interest rates that may be paid by banks that are less than well capitalized, under which such a bank generally may not pay an interest rate on any deposit of more than 75 basis points over the national rate published by the FDIC, unless the FDIC determines that the bank is operating in a high-rate area. Continued expansion of CIT Bank's retail online banking platform to diversify the types of deposits that it accepts may require significant time, effort, and expense to implement. We are likely to face significant competition for deposits from larger BHCs who are similarly seeking larger and more stable pools of funding. If CIT Bank fails to expand and diversify its deposit-taking capability, or if CIT Bank's aggregate amount of deposits decreases due to economic uncertainty, a migration of deposits to the largest banks, or for other reasons, it could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. We may be restricted from paying dividends or repurchasing our common stock.. CIT is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries, including CIT Bank, and relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for a significant portion of its cash flow. Federal banking laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that CIT Bank can pay to CIT. In addition, BHCs with assets in excess of $50 billion must develop and submit to the FRB for review an annual capital plan detailing their plans for the payment of dividends on their common or preferred stock or the repurchase of common stock. If our capital plan is not approved or if we do not satisfy applicable capital requirements, our ability to pay dividends or undertake other capital actions may be restricted. We received a non-objection to our capital plan in June 2017, but we had received a qualitative objection to our previous capital plan in 2016 and had to submit an amended capital plan. We received a non-objection to our amended capital plan in February 2018. We will submit our next annual capital plan in April 2018. We cannot determine whether the FRBNY will object to future capital returns.. Regulatory and Legal Risks. We could be adversely affected by the additional enhanced prudential supervision requirements applicable to large banking organizations.. We exceeded $50 billion in assets at September 30, 2015 and became subject to the FRB's enhanced prudential standards applicable to BHCs with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more. There are a number of regulations that are now applicable to us that are not applicable to smaller banking organizations, including but not limited to enhanced rules on capital plans and stress testing, enhanced governance standards, liquidity stress testing and enhanced reporting requirements, and a requirement to develop a resolution plan. Each of these rules required CIT to dedicate significant time, effort, and expense during 2016 and 2017 to comply with the enhanced standards and requirements, and we expect to continue dedicating significant time, effort, and expense during 2018 and thereafter. If we fail to develop at a reasonable cost the systems and processes necessary to comply with the enhanced standards and requirements imposed by these rules, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Our business is subject to significant government regulation and supervision and we could be adversely affected by banking or other regulations, including new regulations or changes in existing regulations or the application thereof.. The financial services industry, in general, is heavily regulated. CIT is subject to the comprehensive, consolidated supervision of the FRB and CIT Bank is subject to supervision by the OCC, in each case including risk-based and leverage capital requirements and information reporting requirements. Further, CIT Bank is subject to regulation in certain instances by the FDIC, due to its insured deposits, and the CFPB. This regulatory oversight is established to protect depositors, consumer borrowers, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, and is not intended to protect debt and equity security holders. If we fail to satisfy regulatory requirements applicable to BHCs that have elected to be treated as FHCs, including maintaining our status as well managed and well capitalized and meeting the supervisory standards set by our banking regulators, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, and we may be restricted in our ability to undertake certain capital actions (such as declaring dividends or repurchasing outstanding shares) or to engage in certain activities or acquisitions.. Proposals for legislation to further regulate, restrict, and tax certain financial services activities are continually being introduced in the United States Congress and in state legislatures. The Dodd-Frank Act, which was adopted in 2010, constitutes the most wide-ranging overhaul of financial services regulation in decades, including provisions affecting, among other things, (i) corporate governance and executive compensation standards, (ii) FDIC insurance assessments based on asset levels rather than deposits, (iii) minimum capital levels for BHCs, (iv) derivatives activities, proprietary trading, and private investment funds offered by financial institutions, and (v) the regulation of large financial institutions. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act established additional regulatory bodies, including the CFPB, which has broad authority to establish a federal regulatory framework for consumer financial protection. The agencies regulating the financial services industry periodically issue new regulations and adopt changes to their existing regulations. In recent years, regulators have increased significantly the level and scope of their supervision and regulation of the financial services industry. We are unable to predict the form or nature of any future changes to statutes or regulation, including the interpretation or implementation thereof. Such increased supervision and regulation could significantly affect our ability to conduct certain of our businesses in a cost-effective manner, restrict the type of activities in which we are permitted to engage, or subject us to stricter and more conservative capital, leverage, liquidity, and risk management standards. Any such action could have a substantial impact on us, significantly increase our costs, limit our growth opportunities, affect our strategies and business operations and increase our capital requirements, and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our Aviation Lending, Rail, Maritime and other equipment financing operations are subject to various laws, rules, and regulations administered by authorities in jurisdictions where we do business. In the U.S., our equipment leasing operations, including for. Table of Contents. CIT ANNUAL REPORT 2017   22. railcars, ships, and other equipment, are subject to rules and regulations relating to safety, operations, maintenance, and mechanical standards promulgated by various federal and state agencies and industry organizations, including the U.S. Department of Transportation, the Federal Aviation Administration, the Federal Railroad Administration, the Association of American Railroads, the Maritime Administration, the U.S. Coast Guard, and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Similar governmental agencies issue similar rules and regulations in other countries in which we do business. In 2015, the U.S. Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (\"PHMSA\") and Transport Canada (\"TC\") each released final rules establishing enhanced design and performance criteria for tank cars loaded with a flammable liquid and requiring retrofitting of existing tank cars to meet the enhanced standards within a specified time frame. In addition, the U.S. Congress enacted the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act (\"FAST Act\"), which, among other things, expanded the scope of tank cars classified as carrying flammable liquids, added additional design and performance criteria for tank cars in flammable service, and required additional studies of certain criteria established by PHMSA and TC. In addition, state agencies regulate some aspects of rail and maritime operations with respect to health and safety matters not otherwise preempted by federal law. Our business operations and our equipment financing and leasing portfolios may be adversely impacted by rules and regulations promulgated by governmental and industry agencies, which could require substantial modification, maintenance, or refurbishment of our railcars, ships, or other equipment, or potentially make such equipment inoperable or obsolete. Violations of these rules and regulations can result in substantial fines and penalties, including potential limitations on operations or forfeitures of assets.. We are currently involved in a number of legal proceedings, and may from time to time be involved in government investigations and inquiries, related to the conduct of our business, the results of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operation.. We are currently involved in a number of legal proceedings, and may from time to time be involved in government and regulatory investigations and inquiries, relating to matters that arise in connection with the conduct of our business (collectively, \"Litigation\"). We are also at risk when we have agreed to indemnify others for losses related to Litigation they face, such as in connection with the sale of a business or assets by us. It is inherently difficult to predict the outcome of Litigation matters, particularly when such matters are in their early stages or where the claimants seek indeterminate damages. We cannot state with certainty what the eventual outcome of the pending Litigation will be, what the timing of the ultimate resolution of these matters will be, or what the eventual loss, fines, or penalties related to each pending matter will be, if any. The actual results from resolving Litigation matters may involve substantially higher costs and expenses than the amounts reserved or amounts estimated to be reasonably possible, or judgments may be rendered, or fines or penalties assessed in matters for which we have no reserves or have not estimated reasonably possible losses. Adverse judgments, fines or penalties in one or more Litigation matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. We could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws and regulations or the interpretations of such laws and regulations. We are subject to the income tax laws of the U.S., its states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which we do business. These tax laws are complex and may be subject to different interpretations. We must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws when determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities, and our valuation allowance. Changes to the tax laws, administrative rulings or court decisions could increase our provision for income taxes and reduce our net income.. These changes could affect our regulatory capital ratios as calculated in accordance with the Basel III Final Rule. The exact impact is dependent upon the effects an amendment has on our net DTA's arising from NOL and tax credit carry-forwards, versus our net DTA's related to temporary timing differences, as the former is a deduction from capital (the numerator to the ratios), while the latter is included in RWA (the denominator). See \"Regulation  -  Banking Supervision and Regulation  -  Capital Requirements\" section of Item 1. Business Overview for further discussion regarding the impact of DTA's on regulatory capital.. Our investments in certain tax-advantaged projects may not generate returns as anticipated and may have an adverse impact on our financial results.. We invest in certain tax-advantaged projects promoting affordable housing, community development and renewable energy resources. Our investments in these projects are designed to generate a return primarily through the realization of federal and state income tax credits, and other tax benefits, over specified time periods. We are subject to the risk that previously recorded tax credits, which remain subject to recapture by taxing authorities based on compliance features required to be met at the project level, will fail to meet certain government compliance requirements and will not be able to be realized. The risk of not being able to realize the tax credits and other tax benefits depends on many factors outside of our control, including changes in the applicable tax code and the ability of the projects to be completed. If we are unable to realize these tax credits and other tax benefits, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. We service reverse mortgages that were previously originated and securitized through our Financial Freedom business, and we currently own a portfolio of reverse mortgages, which subjects us to substantial business, operational and legal risks and could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations.. We own mortgage servicing rights through our Financial Freedom business, reported as discontinued operations, related to reverse mortgages previously originated and securitized, and we currently own a portfolio of reverse mortgages, both of which are in assets held for sale. The reverse mortgage business is subject to substantial risks, including market, credit, interest rate, liquidity, operational, reputational and legal risks. A reverse mortgage is a loan available to persons aged 62 or older that allows homeowners to borrow money against the value of their home. Defaults on reverse mortgages leading to foreclosures may occur if borrowers fail to meet maintenance obligations, such as payment of taxes or home insurance premiums, or fail to meet requirements to occupy the premises. An increase in foreclosure rates may increase our cost of servicing. We have been subject on occasion to negative publicity when defaults on reverse mortgages led to foreclosures or evictions of senior homeowners.. Certain of these reverse mortgage loans are insured and guaranteed by the FHA, which is administered by HUD. FHA regulations provide that servicers must meet a series of event-specific timeframes during the default, foreclosure, conveyance, and mortgage insurance claim cycles. The penalty HUD applies for failure to meet the foreclosure timeline is curtailment of interest from the date of failure (e.g. the date to take the first legal action in the foreclosure process is missed) to the claims settlement date, which might be months or years after the missed deadline. As a servicer of reverse mortgage loans owned by. Item 1A: Risk Factors. Table of Contents. 23   CIT ANNUAL REPORT 2017. the government-sponsored enterprises (\"GSEs\"), the servicing guides provide that servicers may become liable for curtailed interest for certain delays in completing the foreclosure process with respect to defaulted loans in accordance with servicer guides. As the servicer, we may be responsible to HUD for debenture interest that is not self-curtailed or for making the credit owner whole for any interest curtailed due to not meeting the required event-specific timeframes. If we are required to record incremental charges for interest curtailment obligations, there may be a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. As a reverse mortgage servicer, we are responsible for funding any payments due to borrowers in a timely manner, remitting to credit owners interest accrued, paying for interest shortfalls, and funding advances such as taxes and home insurance premiums. If a borrower is not paying real estate taxes and property insurance premiums, we may be required under servicing agreements to advance our own funds to pay property taxes, insurance premiums, legal expenses and other protective advances. We also may be required to advance funds to maintain, repair and market real estate properties. In certain situations, our contractual obligations may require us to make certain advances for which we may not be reimbursed. In addition, if a mortgage loan serviced by us defaults or becomes delinquent, the repayment to us of the advance may be delayed until the mortgage loan is repaid or refinanced or liquidation occurs.  If there is a delay in collecting advances or if we receive requests for advances in excess of amounts we are able to fund, it may adversely affect our liquidity, and a failure to be reimbursed for advances could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. The mortgage industry, including both forward mortgages and reverse mortgages, is largely dependent upon the FHA, HUD and government-sponsored enterprises, like the Federal National Mortgage Association (\"Fannie Mae\") and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (\"Freddie Mac\"). There can be no guarantee that any or all of these entities will continue to participate in the mortgage industry, including forward mortgages and reverse mortgages, or that they will not make material changes to the laws, regulations, rules or practices applicable to the mortgage industry. The FHA has issued regulations since January 1, 2013, governing its reverse mortgage program that impact initial mortgage insurance premiums and principal limit factors, impose restrictions on the amount of funds that senior borrowers may draw down at closing and during the first 12 months after closing, and require a financial assessment for all borrowers to ensure that they have the capacity and willingness to meet their financial obligations and the terms of the reverse mortgage. Similarly, the CFPB has issued new rules for mortgage origination and mortgage servicing. Both the origination and servicing rules create new private rights of action for consumers against lenders and servicers in the event of certain violations.. Any material changes to the laws, regulations, rules or practices applicable to our residential mortgage business could have a material adverse effect on our overall business and our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Credit and Market Risks. We could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions.. CIT's ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial institutions are interrelated as a result of syndications, trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. CIT has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and it routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual funds, private equity funds, and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial institutions, or the financial services industry generally, could affect market liquidity and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions could expose CIT to credit risk in the event of default by its counterparty or client. In addition, CIT's credit risk may be impacted if the collateral held by it cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due to CIT. There is no assurance that any such losses would not adversely affect, possibly materially, CIT.. Our Rail business is concentrated by industry and our retail banking business is concentrated geographically, and any downturn in the rail industry or in the geographic area of our retail banking business may have a material adverse effect on our business.. Most of our business is diversified by customer, industry, and geography. However, although our Rail business is diversified by customer and geography, it is concentrated in one industry. If there is a significant downturn in shipping by railcar, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Our retail banking business is primarily concentrated within our retail branch network, which is located in Southern California. Although our other businesses are national in scope, these other businesses also have a presence within the Southern California geographic market. Adverse conditions in the Southern California geographic market, such as inflation, unemployment, recession, natural disasters, or other factors beyond our control, could impact the ability of borrowers in Southern California to repay their loans, decrease the value of the collateral securing loans in Southern California, or affect the ability of our customers in Southern California to continue conducting business with us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Our allowance for loan losses may prove inadequate.. The quality of our loans and leases depends on the creditworthiness of our customers and their ability to fulfill their obligations to us. We maintain a consolidated allowance for loan losses on our loans to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. The amount of our allowance reflects management's judgment of losses inherent in the portfolio. However, the economic environment is dynamic, and our portfolio credit quality could decline in the future.. Our allowance for loan losses may not keep pace with changes in the credit-worthiness of our customers or in collateral values. If the credit quality of our customer base declines, if the risk profile of a market, industry, or group of customers changes significantly, if we are unable to collect the full amount on accounts receivable taken as collateral, or if the value of equipment, real estate, or other collateral deteriorates significantly, our allowance for loan losses may prove inadequate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. In addition to customer credit risk associated with loans and leases, we are exposed to other forms of credit risk, including counterparties to our derivative transactions, loan sales, syndications and equipment purchases. These counterparties include. Table of Contents. CIT ANNUAL REPORT 2017   24. other financial institutions, manufacturers, and our customers. If our credit underwriting processes or credit risk judgments fail to adequately identify or assess such risks, or if the credit quality of our derivative counterparties, customers, manufacturers, or other parties with which we conduct business materially deteriorates, we may be exposed to credit risk related losses that may negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We may not be able to realize our entire investment in the equipment we lease to our customers.. Our loans and leases include a significant portion of leased equipment, including but not limited to railcars and locomotives, technology and office equipment, and medical equipment. The realization of equipment values (residual values) during the life and at the end of the term of a lease is an important element in the profitability of our leasing business. At the inception of each lease, we record a residual value for the leased equipment based on our estimate of the future value of the equipment at the end of the lease term or end of the equipment's estimated useful life.. If the market value of leased equipment decreases at a rate greater than we projected, whether due to rapid technological or economic obsolescence, unusual wear and tear on the equipment, excessive use of the equipment, recession or other adverse economic conditions, or other factors, it could adversely affect the current values or the residual values of such equipment. For example, as the price of or demand for crude oil, coal, or other commodities goes up or down, it may affect the demand for railcars used to ship such commodities and the lease rates for such railcars, which could affect the residual values of such railcars. Further, if certain commodities cause more wear and tear on railcars, such as increased corrosion, it may increase maintenance and repair costs, which could affect the residual values of such railcars.. Certain equipment residual values, including railcar and ship residuals, are dependent on the manufacturers' or vendors' warranties, reputation, and other factors, including demand and market conditions and liquidity. Residual values for certain equipment, including rail and medical equipment, may also be affected by changes in laws or regulations that mandate design changes or additional safety features. For example, new regulations issued by the PHMSA in the U.S. and TC in Canada in 2015, and supplemented by the FAST Act in the U.S., will require us to retrofit a significant portion of our tank cars over the next several years in order to continue leasing those tank cars for the transport of crude oil. In addition, we may not realize the full market value of equipment if we are required to sell it to meet liquidity needs or for other reasons outside of the ordinary course of business. Consequently, there can be no assurance that we will realize our estimated residual values for equipment.. The degree of residual realization risk varies by transaction type. Capital leases bear the least risk because contractual payments usually cover approximately 90% of the equipment's cost at the inception of the lease. Operating leases have a higher degree of risk because a smaller percentage of the equipment's value is covered by contractual cash flows over the term of the lease. A significant portion of our leasing portfolios are comprised of operating leases, which increase our residual realization risk.. Investment in and revenues from our foreign operations are subject to various risks and requirements associated with transacting business in foreign countries.. Although our business operations in foreign jurisdictions are substantially reduced from prior years, we still conduct limited business operations in certain jurisdictions and we engage in certain cross border lending and leasing transactions. An economic recession or downturn, increased competition, or business disruption associated with the political or regulatory environments in the international markets in which we do business could adversely affect us.. In addition, our foreign operations generally conduct business in foreign currencies, which subject us to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. These exposures, if not effectively hedged could have a material adverse effect on our investment in international operations and the level of international revenues that we generate from international financing and leasing transactions. Reported results from our operations in foreign countries may fluctuate from period to period due to exchange rate movements in relation to the U.S. dollar.. Foreign countries have various compliance requirements for financial statement audits and tax filings, which are required in order to obtain and maintain licenses to transact business and may be different in some respects from GAAP in the U.S. or the tax laws and regulations of the U.S. If we are unable to properly complete and file our statutory audit reports or tax filings, regulators or tax authorities in the applicable jurisdiction may restrict our ability to do business.. Furthermore, both our domestic and international operations could expose us to trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the United States or other governments or organizations. The U.S. Department of Justice (\"DOJ\") and other federal agencies and authorities have a broad range of civil and criminal penalties they may seek to impose against corporations and individuals for violations of trade sanction laws, anti-bribery rules under the FCPA and other federal statutes. Under trade sanction and anticorruption laws, the government may seek to impose modifications to business practices, including cessation of business activities with sanctioned parties or in sanctioned countries, and modifications to compliance programs, which may increase compliance costs, and may subject us to severe criminal and civil fines, penalties and other sanctions. If any of the risks described above materialize, it could adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition.. We may be adversely affected by significant changes in interest rates.. We rely on borrowed money from deposits, secured debt, and unsecured debt to fund our business. We derive the bulk of our income from net finance revenue, which is the difference between interest and rental income on our loans and leases and interest expense on deposits and other borrowings, depreciation on our operating lease equipment and maintenance and other operating lease expenses. Prevailing economic conditions, the trade, fiscal, and monetary policies of the federal government and the policies of various regulatory agencies all affect market rates of interest and the availability and cost of credit, which in turn significantly affects our net finance revenue. Volatility in interest rates can also result in the flow of funds away from financial institutions into direct investments, such as federal government and corporate securities and other investment vehicles, which, because of the absence of federal insurance premiums and reserve requirements, generally pay higher rates of return than financial institutions.. Although interest rates are currently lower than historical averages, any significant decrease in market interest rates may result in a change in net interest margin and net finance revenue. A substantial portion of our loans and other financing products, and a. Item 1A: Risk Factors. Table of Contents. 25   CIT ANNUAL REPORT 2017. portion of our deposits and other borrowings, bear interest at floating interest rates. If interest rates increase, monthly interest obligations owed by our customers to us will also increase, as will our own interest expense. Demand for our loans or other financing products may decrease as interest rates rise or if interest rates are expected to rise in the future. In addition, if prevailing interest rates increase, some of our customers may not be able to make the increased interest payments or refinance their balloon and bullet payment transactions, resulting in payment defaults and loan impairments. Conversely, if interest rates remain low, our interest expense may decrease, but our customers may refinance the loans they have with us at lower interest rates, or with others, leading to lower revenues. As interest rates rise and fall over time, any significant change in market rates may result in a decrease in net finance revenue, particularly if the interest rates we pay on our deposits and other borrowings and the interest rates we charge our customers do not change in unison, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.. We may be adversely affected by deterioration in economic conditions that is general in scope or affects specific industries, products or geographic areas.. Weak economic conditions are likely to have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. Prolonged economic weakness or other adverse economic or financial developments in the U.S. or global economies in general, or affecting specific industries, geographic locations and/or products, would likely adversely impact credit quality as borrowers may fail to meet their debt payment obligations, particularly customers with highly leveraged loans. Adverse economic conditions have in the past and could in the future result in declines in collateral values, which also decreases our ability to fund against collateral. This would result in higher levels of nonperforming loans, net charge-offs, provision for credit losses, and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale. The value to us of other assets such as investment securities, most of which are debt securities or other financial instruments supported by loans, similarly would be negatively impacted by widespread decreases in credit quality resulting from a weakening of the economy. Accordingly, higher credit and collateral related losses and decreases in the value of financial instruments could impact our financial position or operating results.. Aside from a general economic downturn, a downturn in certain industries may result in reduced demand for products that we finance in that industry or negatively impact collection and asset recovery efforts. Decreased demand for the products of various manufacturing customers due to recession may adversely affect their ability to repay their loans and leases with us. Similarly, a decline in railroad shipping volumes may adversely affect our rail business, the value of our rail assets, and the ability of our lessees to make lease payments. Further, a decrease in prices or reduced demand for certain raw materials or bulk products, such as oil, coal, or steel, may result in a significant decrease in gross revenues and profits of our borrowers and lessees or a decrease in demand for certain types of equipment for the production, processing and transport of such raw materials or bulk products, including certain specialized railcars, which may adversely affect the ability of our customers to make payments on their loans and leases and the value of our rail assets and other leased equipment.. We are also affected by the economic and other policies adopted by various governmental authorities in the U.S. and other jurisdictions in reaction to economic conditions. Changes in monetary policies of the FRB and non-U.S. central banking authorities directly impact our cost of funds for lending, capital raising, and investment activities, and may impact the value of financial instruments we hold. In addition, such changes may affect the credit quality of our customers. Changes in domestic and international monetary policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict.. Operational Risks. Revenue growth from new business initiatives and expense reductions from efficiency improvements may not be achieved.. As part of its ongoing business, CIT from time to time enters into new business initiatives. In addition, CIT from time to time has targeted certain expense reductions in its business. The new business initiatives may not be successful in increasing revenue, whether due to significant levels of competition, lack of demand for services, lack of name recognition or a record of prior performance, or otherwise, or may require higher expenditures than anticipated to generate new business volume. The expense initiatives may not reduce expenses as much as anticipated, whether due to delays in implementation, higher than expected or unanticipated costs of implementation, increased costs for new regulatory obligations, or for other reasons. If CIT is unable to achieve the anticipated revenue growth from its new business initiatives or the projected expense reductions from efficiency improvements, its results of operations and profitability may be adversely affected.. If we fail to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting, it could result in a material misstatement of the Company's annual or interim financial statements.. Management of CIT is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for. external purposes in accordance with GAAP. As of December 31, 2016, CIT identified two material weaknesses in our internal controls related to Information Technology General Controls (\"ITGCs\") and in the Financial Freedom reverse mortgage servicing business related to the Home Equity Conversion Mortgages (HECM) Interest Curtailment Reserve. As of December 31, 2017, the Company remediated each of the material weaknesses as disclosed in Item 9A. Controls and Procedures. However, if we identify additional material weaknesses or other deficiencies in our internal controls, or if material weaknesses or other deficiencies exist that we fail to identify, our risk will be increased that a material misstatement to our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Any such potential material misstatement, if not prevented or detected, could require us to restate previously released financial statements and could otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Table of Contents. CIT ANNUAL REPORT 2017   26. Changes in accounting standards or interpretations could materially impact our reported earnings and financial condition.. The FASB, the SEC and other regulatory agencies periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of CIT's consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, potentially resulting in changes to previously reported financial results, or a cumulative charge to retained earnings. For example, we are currently reviewing new guidance on lease accounting (ASU 2016-02 Leases (Topic 842), effective January 1, 2019), which will require lessees to recognize lease liabilities, and corresponding right of use assets, on their balance sheets, and may prompt certain of our leasing customers to reconsider whether to lease equipment for their business or to purchase it outright using the proceeds of a loan, and may have an adverse effect on our leasing business. We are also reviewing new guidance on the measurement of credit losses (ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, effective January 1, 2020), which introduces a forward-looking \"expected loss\" model to estimate credit losses to cover the expected life of the portfolio, rather than the incurred loss model under current U.S. GAAP, and will likely result in an increase in our allowance for loan and lease losses upon adoption.. If the models that we use in our business are poorly designed, our business or results of operations may be adversely affected.. We rely on quantitative models to measure risks and to estimate certain financial values. Models may be used in such processes as determining the pricing of various products, grading loans and extending credit, measuring interest rate and other market risks, predicting losses, assessing capital adequacy, and calculating regulatory capital levels, as well as to estimate the value of financial instruments and balance sheet items. Poorly designed or implemented models present the risk that our business decisions based on information incorporating models will be adversely affected due to the inadequacy of that information. Also, information we provide to the public or to our regulators based on poorly designed or implemented models could be inaccurate or misleading. Some of the decisions that our regulators make, including those related to capital distributions to our shareholders, could be affected adversely if their perception is that the quality of the models used to generate the relevant information is insufficient.. It could adversely affect our business if we fail to retain and/or attract skilled employees.. Our business and results of operations will depend in part upon our ability to retain and attract highly skilled and qualified executive officers and management, financial, compliance, technical, marketing, sales, and support employees. Competition for qualified executive officers and employees can be challenging, and CIT cannot ensure success in attracting or retaining such individuals. This competition can lead to increased expenses in many areas. If we fail to attract and retain qualified executive officers and employees, it could materially adversely affect our ability to compete and it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to successfully operate our business or to meet our operations, risk management, compliance, regulatory, funding and financial reporting requirements.. In the second quarter of 2016, the FRB, other federal banking agencies and the SEC jointly published proposed rules designed to implement provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act prohibiting incentive compensation arrangements that would encourage inappropriate risk taking at covered financial institutions, which include a bank or BHC with $1 billion or more of assets, such as CIT and CIT Bank. Although the proposed rules include more stringent requirements, particularly for larger institutions, it cannot be determined at this time whether or when a final rule will be adopted. Compliance with such a final rule may substantially affect the manner in which we structure compensation for our executives and other employees. Depending on the nature and application of the final rules, we may not be able to successfully compete with certain financial institutions and other companies that are not subject to some or all of the rules to retain and attract executives and other high performing employees. If this were to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We and our subsidiaries are party to various financing arrangements, commercial contracts and other arrangements that under certain circumstances give, or in some cases may give, the counterparty the ability to exercise rights and remedies under such arrangements which, if exercised, may have material adverse consequences.. We and our subsidiaries are party to various financing arrangements, commercial contracts and other arrangements, such as securitization transactions, derivatives transactions, funding facilities, and agreements to purchase or sell loans, leases or other assets, that give, or in some cases may give, the counterparty the ability to exercise rights and remedies upon the occurrence of certain events. Such events may include a material adverse effect or material adverse change (or similar event), a breach of representations or warranties, a failure to disclose material information, a breach of covenants, certain insolvency events, a default under certain specified other obligations, or a failure to comply with certain financial covenants. The counterparty could have the ability, depending on the arrangement, to, among other things, require early repayment of amounts owed by us or our subsidiaries and in some cases payment of penalty amounts, or require the repurchase of assets previously sold to the counterparty. Additionally, a default under financing arrangements or derivatives transactions that exceed a certain size threshold in the aggregate may also cause a cross-default under instruments governing our other financing arrangements or derivatives transactions. If the ability of any counterparty to exercise such rights and remedies is triggered and we are unsuccessful in avoiding or minimizing the adverse consequences discussed above, such consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. We may be exposed to risk of environmental liability or claims for negligence, property damage, or personal injury when we take title to properties or lease certain equipment.. In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to real estate that contains or was used in the manufacture or processing of hazardous materials, or that is subject to other hazardous risks. In addition, we may lease equipment to our customers that is used to mine, develop, process, or transport hazardous materials. As a result, we could be subject to environmental liabilities or claims for negligence, property damage, or personal injury with respect to these properties or equipment. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation, and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, accidents or other hazardous risks, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. The costs. Item 1A: Risk Factors. Table of Contents. 27   CIT ANNUAL REPORT 2017. associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site or equipment involved in a hazardous incident, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination, property damage, personal injury or other hazardous risks emanating from the property or related to the equipment. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities or claims for negligence, property damage, or personal injury, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We rely on our systems, employees, and certain third party vendors and service providers in conducting our operations, and certain failures, including internal or external fraud, operational errors, systems malfunctions, disasters, or terrorist activities, could materially adversely affect our operations.. We are exposed to many types of operational risk, including the risk of fraud by employees and outsiders, clerical and recordkeeping errors, and computer or telecommunications systems malfunctions. Our businesses depend on our ability to process a large number of increasingly complex transactions. If any of our operational, accounting, or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings (including intrusion into or degradation of systems or technology by cyber attackers), we could be materially adversely affected. We are similarly dependent on our employees. We could be materially adversely affected if one of our employees causes a significant operational break-down or failure, either as a result of human error or intentional sabotage or fraudulent manipulation of our operations or systems. Third parties with which we do business, including vendors that provide internet access, portfolio servicing, deposit products, or security solutions for our operations, could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns, failures, capacity constraints of their own systems or employees, or cyber security attacks through their systems to our systems. Any of these occurrences could diminish our ability to operate one or more of our businesses, or cause financial loss, potential liability to clients, inability to secure insurance, reputational damage, or regulatory intervention, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which may include, for example, electrical or telecommunications outages, natural or man-made disasters, such as fires, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, or tornados, disease pandemics, or events arising from local or regional politics, including terrorist acts or international hostilities. Such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to clients and loss or liability to us. In addition, there is the risk that our controls and procedures as well as business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. The computer systems and network systems we and others use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. These problems may arise in both our internally developed systems and the systems of third-party hardware, software, and service providers. Any such failure could affect our operations and could materially adversely affect our results of operations by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect, as well as by exposing us to litigation or losses not covered by insurance. The adverse impact of disasters, terrorist activities, or international hostilities also could be increased to the extent that there is a lack of preparedness on the part of national or regional emergency responders or on the part of other organizations and businesses that we deal with, particularly those that we depend upon but have no control over.. Our framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss.. Our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss. We have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report, analyze, and mitigate the types of risk to which we are subject, including liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, legal and compliance risk, strategic risk, reputational risk, and operational risk related to our employees, systems and vendors, among others. Any system of control and any system to reduce risk exposure, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. A failure in our internal controls or our systems or strategies to mitigate risk could have a significant negative impact not only on our earnings, but also on the perception that customers, regulators and investors may have of us. Moreover, whereas negative public opinion once was primarily driven by adverse news coverage in traditional media, the advent and expansion of social media creates the potential for rapid and widespread dissemination of inaccurate, misleading, or false information that could damage our reputation and affect our ability to attract and retain customers.. If our risk management framework proves ineffective, we may not be able to effectively mitigate our risk exposures in particular market environments or against particular types of risk, and we could incur litigation, negative regulatory consequences, reputational damages among other adverse consequences and we could suffer unexpected losses that may affect our financial condition or results of operations.. We and/or our affiliates are involved from time to time in information-gathering requests, investigations and proceedings by various governmental regulatory agencies and law enforcement authorities, as well as self-regulatory agencies.. We and/or our affiliates are involved from time to time in information-gathering requests, reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental regulatory agencies and law enforcement authorities, as well as self-regulatory agencies, regarding our customers and businesses. Because our businesses are complex and subject to continuing change, and because they are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and foreign authorities, the outcome of any of these requests, reviews, investigations and proceedings and their impact on us can be difficult to predict. In addition, a violation of law or regulation by another financial institution may give rise to an inquiry or investigation by regulators or other authorities of the same or similar practices by us. For example, events of improper sales practices at other financial institutions, including the opening of fraudulent customer accounts, has prompted close scrutiny of consumer banking practices by regulators and the media. Moreover, the complexity of the federal and state regulatory and enforcement regimes in the U.S. means that a single event or topic may give rise to numerous and overlapping investigations and regulatory proceedings. Such matters may result in material adverse consequences, including without limitation, adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other actions, amendments and/or restatements of our SEC filings and/or financial statements, as applicable, and/or determinations of material weaknesses in our disclosure controls and procedures.. There has been a trend of large settlements with governmental agencies that may adversely affect the outcomes for other financial institutions, to the extent they are used as a template for other settlements in the future. In some cases, governmental authorities have required criminal pleas or other extraordinary terms as part of such settlements with other financial institutions.. Table of Contents. CIT ANNUAL REPORT 2017   28. The uncertain regulatory enforcement environment makes it difficult to estimate probable losses, which can lead to substantial disparities between legal reserves and actual settlements or penalties.. We continually encounter technological change, and if we are unable to implement new or upgraded technology when required, it may have a material adverse effect on our business.. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introduction of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our continued success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that satisfy customer demands and create efficiencies in our operations. If we are unable to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services that allow us to remain competitive or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers, or if we implement technology that is susceptible to information security breaches or cyber security attacks, it may have a material adverse effect on our business.. We could be adversely affected by information security breaches or cyber security attacks.. Information security risks for large financial institutions such as CIT have generally increased in recent years, in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists, and other external parties, some of which may be linked to terrorist organizations or hostile foreign governments. Our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential information in our computer systems and networks. Our businesses rely on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software, and networks to conduct their operations. Our technologies, systems, networks, and our customers' devices may become the target of cyber attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of CIT's or our customers' confidential, proprietary and other information, including personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, or otherwise disrupt CIT's or its customers' or other third parties' business operations.. In recent years, there have been several well-publicized attacks on various companies, including in the retail, financial services, media and entertainment, social media, and other industries, and personal, proprietary, and public e-mail systems in which the perpetrators gained unauthorized access to confidential information and customer data, often through the introduction of computer viruses or malware, cyber attacks, phishing, or other means. There have also been a series of denial of service attacks on large financial services companies. In a denial of service attack, hackers flood commercial websites with extraordinarily high volumes of traffic to disrupt the ability of commercial enterprises to process transactions and possibly make their websites unavailable to customers for extended periods of time. Even if not directed at CIT specifically, attacks on other entities with whom we do business or on whom we otherwise rely or attacks on financial or other institutions important to the overall functioning of the financial system could adversely affect, directly or indirectly, aspects of our business.. Since January 1, 2015, we have not experienced any material information security breaches involving either proprietary or customer information. However, if we experience cyber attacks or other information security breaches in the future, either the Company or its customers may suffer material losses. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, the prominent size and scale of CIT and its role in the financial services industry, our plans to continue to implement our online banking channel strategies and develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our customers when and how they want to be served, our geographic footprint and international presence, the outsourcing of some of our business operations, and the continued uncertain global economic environment. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.. Disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and customers, or cyber attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our customers use to access our products and services could result in customer attrition, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.. Item 1A: Risk Factors. Table of Contents. 29   CIT ANNUAL REPORT 2017"
