[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The Corporation is subject to the many risks and uncertainties applicable to all banking companies, as well as risks specific to the Corporation’s geographic locations. Although the Corporation seeks to effectively manage risks, and maintains a level of equity that exceeds the banking regulatory agencies’ thresholds for being considered “well capitalized” (see Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements), management cannot predict the future and cannot eliminate the possibility of credit, operational or other losses. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from management’s expectations. Some of the Corporation’s significant risks and uncertainties are discussed below.. Credit Risk from Lending Activities – A significant source of risk is the possibility that losses will be sustained because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loan agreements. Most of the Corporation’s loans are secured, but some loans are unsecured. With respect to secured loans, the collateral securing the repayment of these loans may be insufficient to cover the obligations owed under such loans. Collateral values may be adversely affected by changes in economic, environmental and other conditions, including declines in the value of real estate, changes in interest rates, changes in monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government, wide-spread disease, terrorist activity, environmental contamination and other external events. In addition, collateral appraisals that are out of date or that do not meet industry recognized standards may create the impression that a loan is adequately collateralized when it is not. The Corporation has adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and policies, including regular reviews of appraisals and borrower financial statements, that management believes are appropriate to mitigate the risk of loss. Also, as discussed further in the “Provision and Allowance for Loan Losses” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis, the Corporation attempts to estimate the amount of losses that may be inherent in the portfolio through a quarterly evaluation process that includes several members of management and that addresses specifically identified problem loans, as well as other quantitative data and qualitative factors. Such risk management and accounting policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.. 4. Interest Rate Risk – Business risk arising from changes in interest rates is an inherent factor in operating a banking organization. The Corporation’s assets are predominantly long-term, fixed-rate loans and debt securities. Funding for these assets comes principally from shorter-term deposits and borrowed funds. Accordingly, there is an inherent risk of lower future earnings or decline in fair value of the Corporation’s financial instruments when interest rates change. Significant fluctuations in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. For additional information regarding interest rate risk, see Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”. Breach of Information Security and Technology Dependence – The Corporation relies on software, communication, and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks and over the Internet. Despite numerous safeguards, the Corporation cannot be certain that all of its systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack or other technological difficulties or failures. The Corporation relies on the services of a variety of vendors to meet its data processing and communication needs. If information security is breached or other technology difficulties or failures occur, information may be lost or misappropriated, services and operations may be interrupted and the Corporation could be exposed to claims from customers. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.. Limited Geographic Diversification – The Corporation grants commercial, residential and personal loans to customers primarily in the Pennsylvania counties of Tioga, Bradford, Sullivan, Lycoming, Potter, Cameron and McKean, and in Steuben and Chemung Counties in New York State. Although the Corporation has a diversified loan portfolio, a significant portion of its debtors’ ability to honor their contracts is dependent on the local economic conditions within the region. Deterioration in economic conditions could adversely affect the quality of the Corporation’s loan portfolio and the demand for its products and services, and accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.. Competition – All phases of the Corporation’s business are competitive. Some competitors are much larger in total assets and capitalization than the Corporation, have greater access to capital markets and can offer a broader array of financial services. There can be no assurance that the Corporation will be able to compete effectively in its markets. Furthermore, developments increasing the nature or level of competition could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.. Government Regulation and Monetary Policy – The Corporation and the banking industry are subject to extensive regulation and supervision under federal and state laws and regulations. The requirements and limitations imposed by such laws and regulations limit the manner in which the Corporation conducts its business, undertakes new investments and activities and obtains financing. These regulations are designed primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and consumers and not to benefit the Corporation’s shareholders. Financial institution regulation has been the subject of significant legislation in recent years and may be the subject of further significant legislation in the future, none of which is in the control of the Corporation. Significant new laws or changes in, or repeals of, existing laws could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Further, federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, significantly affects short-term interest rates and credit conditions, and any unfavorable change in these conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.. Mortgage Banking – Since 2009, the Corporation has originated and sold residential mortgage loans to the secondary market through the MPF Xtra program. Since 2014, the Corporation has also originated and sold residential mortgage loans to the secondary market through the MPF Original program. Both of these programs are administered by the Federal Home Loan Banks of Pittsburgh and Chicago. At December 31, 2017, the total outstanding balance of residential mortgages sold and serviced through the two programs amounted to $169,725,000. The Corporation must strictly adhere to the MPF Xtra and MPF Original program guidelines for origination, underwriting and servicing loans, and failure to do so may result in the Corporation being forced to repurchase loans or being dropped from the program. As of December 31, 2017, the total outstanding balance of residential mortgage loans the Corporation has repurchased as a result of identified instances of noncompliance amounted to $1,805,000. If the volume of such forced repurchases of loans were to increase significantly, or if the Corporation were to be dropped from the programs, it could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.. 5. Securities Markets – The fair value of the Corporation’s available-for-sale securities, as well as the revenues the Corporation earns from its Trust and Financial Management and brokerage services, are sensitive to price fluctuations and market events.. Declines in the values of the Corporation’s securities holdings, combined with adverse changes in the expected cash flows from these investments, could result in other-than-temporary impairment charges.. For additional information regarding debt securities, see the “Securities” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis and Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements.. The Corporation’s Trust and Financial Management revenue is determined, in part, from the value of the underlying investment portfolios. Accordingly, if the values of those investment portfolios decrease, whether due to factors influencing U.S. or international securities markets, in general, or otherwise, the Corporation’s revenue could be negatively impacted. In addition, the Corporation’s ability to sell its brokerage services is dependent, in part, upon consumers’ level of confidence in securities markets.. The Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh  – Through its subsidiary (C&N Bank), the Corporation is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh (FHLB-Pittsburgh), which is one of 11 regional Federal Home Loan Banks. The Corporation has a line of credit with the FHLB-Pittsburgh that is secured by a blanket lien on its loan portfolio. Access to this line of credit is critical if a funding need arises. However, there can be no assurance that the FHLB-Pittsburgh will be able to provide funding when needed, nor can there be assurance that the FHLB-Pittsburgh will provide funds specifically to the Corporation should its financial condition deteriorate and/or regulators prevent that access. The inability to access this source of funds could have a materially adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial flexibility if alternate financing is not available at acceptable interest rates. The failure of the FHLB-Pittsburgh or the FHLB system in general, may materially impair the Corporation’s ability to meet short- and long-term liquidity needs or to meet growth plans.. The Corporation owns common stock of the FHLB-Pittsburgh in order to qualify for membership in the FHLB system and access services from the FHLB-Pittsburgh. The FHLB-Pittsburgh faces a variety of risks in its operations including interest rate risk, counterparty credit risk, and adverse changes in its regulatory framework. In addition, the 11 Federal Home Loan Banks are jointly liable for the consolidated obligations of the FHLB system. To the extent that one FHLB cannot meet its obligations, other FHLBs can be called upon to make required payments. Such risks affecting the FHLB-Pittsburgh could adversely impact the value of the Corporation’s investment in the common stock of the FHLB-Pittsburgh and/or affect its access to credit.. Soundness of Other Financial Institutions – In addition to the FHLB-Pittsburgh, the Corporation maintains other credit facilities that provide it with additional liquidity. These facilities include secured and unsecured borrowings from the Federal Reserve Bank and third-party commercial banks. The Corporation believes that it maintains a strong liquidity position and that it is well positioned to withstand foreseeable market conditions. However, legal agreements with counterparties typically include provisions allowing them to restrict or terminate the Corporation’s access to these credit facilities with or without advance notice and at their sole discretion.. Financial institutions are interconnected as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, and other relationships. Financial market conditions have been negatively impacted in the past and such disruptions or adverse changes in the Corporation’s results of operations or financial condition could, in the future, have a negative impact on available sources of liquidity. Such a situation may arise due to circumstances that are outside the Corporation’s control, such as general market disruptions or operational problems affecting the Corporation or third parties. The Corporation’s efforts to monitor and manage liquidity risk may not be successful or sufficient to deal with dramatic or unanticipated reductions in available liquidity. In such events, the Corporation’s cost of funds may increase, thereby reducing net interest income, or the Corporation may need to sell a portion of its securities and/or loan portfolio, which, depending upon market conditions, could necessitate realizing a loss.. FDIC Insurance Assessments – In 2008 and 2009, higher levels of bank failures dramatically increased the resolution costs of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or the FDIC, and depleted the deposit insurance fund. In addition, the FDIC and the U.S. Congress increased federal deposit insurance coverage, placing additional stress on the deposit insurance fund. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the deposit insurance fund, in 2009 the FDIC increased assessment rates. As a result of lowering assessment levels for the Corporation and other US banks, the Corporation’s 2017 FDIC assessment expense decreased to $376,000 from $488,000 in 2016 and from $603,000 in 2015. Although the Corporation’s total expenses from FDIC assessments have steadily decreased from $2,092,000 in 2009, the Corporation is generally unable to control the cost of the premiums. If a significant number of bank or financial institution failures occur, the Corporation may be required to pay higher FDIC premiums. Future increases in FDIC insurance premiums or additional special assessments may materially adversely affect the Corporation’s results of operations.. 6. Bank Secrecy Act and Related Laws and Regulations – These laws and regulations have significant implications for all financial institutions. In recent years, they have increased due diligence requirements and reporting obligations for financial institutions, created new crimes and penalties, and required the federal banking agencies, in reviewing merger and other acquisition transactions, to consider the effectiveness of the parties to such transactions in combating money laundering activities. Even innocent noncompliance and inconsequential failure to follow the regulations could result in significant fines or other penalties, which could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity."
