[1] "Item 1A.   RISK FACTORS. Investing in our Company involves certain risks. Set forth below are certain risks with respect to our Company.  Readers should carefully review these risks, together with the other information contained in this report.  The risks and uncertainties we have described in this report are not the only ones we face.  Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem not material, may also adversely affect our business.  Any of the risks discussed in this report or that are presently unknown or not material, if they were to actually occur, could result in a significant adverse impact on our business, operating results, prospects or financial condition.  References in the risk factors below to \"we,\" \"us,\" \"our,\" \"Citizens\" and like terms relate to Citizens, Inc. and its subsidiaries on a U.S. GAAP consolidated financial statement basis, unless specifically identified otherwise.  We operate our subsidiaries as separate and distinct entities with respect to corporate formalities.. Risks Relating to Our Business. The majority of our sales derive from residents of foreign countries and is subject to risks associated with political instability, currency control laws and foreign insurance laws.  A significant loss of sales in these foreign markets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. The majority of our direct premiums, approximately 73% in 2017, are from foreign countries, primarily those in Latin America and the Pacific Rim.  These sales are made through independent consultants who are located in these foreign countries.  Many of these countries have a history of political instability, including regime changes, political uprisings, currency fluctuations and anti-democratic or anti-U.S. policies.  There is a risk that political instability in these countries could have a material adverse effect on the ability of people living in these countries to purchase our insurance policies or our ability to sell our policies in those countries through our independent consultants or otherwise. Our Company's future sales and financial results depend upon avoiding significant regulatory restraints on receiving insurance policy applications and premiums from, and issuing insurance policies to, residents outside of the United States.. 11. Table of Contents. CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES. Currency control laws or other currency exchange restrictions in foreign countries could materially adversely affect our revenues by imposing restrictions on asset transfers outside of a country where our insureds reside.  Difficulties in transferring funds from or converting currencies to U.S. dollars in certain countries could prevent our insureds in those countries from purchasing or paying premiums on our policies.  There can be no assurance that such restrictions will not be imposed and that our revenues, results of operations and financial condition will not be materially adversely affected if they do occur.. We also face risks associated with the application of foreign laws to our sales of policies to residents in foreign countries.  Generally, all foreign countries in which we offer insurance products require a license or other authority to conduct insurance business in that country.  Some of these countries also require that local regulatory authorities approve the terms of any insurance product sold to residents of that country.  We have never sought to qualify to do business in any foreign country and have never submitted the insurance policies that we issue to residents of foreign countries for approval by any foreign or domestic insurance regulatory agency.  Traditionally, we have sought to address risks associated with the potential application of foreign laws to our sales of insurance policies in our foreign markets by, among other things, not locating any of our offices or assets in foreign countries, selling policies only through independent consultants rather than our own employees, requiring that all applications for insurance be submitted to and accepted only in our offices in the U.S., and requiring that policy premiums be paid to us only in U.S. Dollars.  We rely on our independent consultants to comply with laws applicable to them in marketing our insurance products in their respective countries.. We have undertaken a comprehensive compliance review of risks associated with the potential application of foreign laws to our sales of insurance policies in foreign countries. The application of foreign laws to our sales of insurance policies in foreign countries varies by country. There is a lack of uniform regulation, lack of clarity in certain regulations and lack of legal precedent addressing circumstances similar to ours.  Our compliance review has confirmed the previously disclosed risks related to foreign insurance laws associated with our current business model, at least in certain foreign countries.  There are risks that a foreign government could determine under its existing laws that its residents may not purchase life insurance from us unless we become qualified to do business in that country or unless our policies purchased by its residents receive prior approval from its insurance regulators. There also is a risk that foreign regulators may become more aggressive in enforcing any perceived violations of their laws and seek to impose monetary fines, criminal penalties, and/or order us to cease our sales in that jurisdiction.  There is no assurance that, if a foreign country were to deem our sales of policies in that country to require that we qualify to do business in that country or submit our policies for approval by that country's regulatory authorities, we would be able to, or would conclude that it is advisable to, comply with those requirements.  Any determination by a foreign country that we or our policy sales are subject to regulation under their laws, or any actions by a foreign country to enforce such laws more aggressively, could therefore have a material adverse effect on our ability to sell policies in that country and, in turn, on our results of operations and financial condition. We are exploring alternatives to our current business model in one or more jurisdictions, including withdrawing from particular markets.. Any disruption to the marketing and sale of our policies to residents of a foreign country, resulting from the action of foreign regulatory authorities or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our operating results and financial condition may be affected if the liabilities actually incurred differ, or if our estimates of those liabilities change, from the amounts we have reserved for in connection with the noncompliance of a portion of our life insurance policies with Section 7702 of the Internal Revenue Code and the failure of certain annuity contracts to qualify under Section 72(s) of the Internal Revenue Code.. We previously announced that we determined that a portion of the life and annuity insurance policies issued by our subsidiary insurance companies failed to qualify for the favorable U.S. federal income tax treatment afforded by Sections 7702 and 72(s) of the Internal Revenue Code (\"IRC\") of 1986.  We may be liable to the IRS for failure to withhold taxes or to tax report on IRS information returns and payee statements.  We have undertaken an analysis of our potential liability to the IRS arising from this matter, as well as other expenses we may incur to remediate (i.e., conform to the requirements of the IRS) certain previously issued domestic life insurance and annuity policies and to address any missed reporting and withholding for policies issued to non-U.S. citizens and have established a best estimate reserve of $12.3 million, net of tax as of December 31, 2017 for probable liabilities and expenses.  The probability weighted range of financial estimates relative to this issue is $5.9 million to $48.2 million, net of tax.  This estimated range includes projected toll charges and fees payable to the IRS, as well as estimated increased payout obligations to current holders of non-compliant domestic life insurance policies expected to result from remediation of those policies.  The amount of our liabilities and expenses depends on a number of uncertainties, including the number of prior tax years for which we may be liable to the IRS, the number of domestic life insurance policies we will be required to remediate, the methodology applicable to the calculation of toll charges for non-compliant policies and the amount of time and resources we will require from external advisors who are assisting us with resolving these issues.  Given the range of potential outcomes and the. 12. Table of Contents. CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES. significant variables assumed in establishing our estimates, actual amounts incurred may exceed our reserve and also could exceed the high end of our estimated range of liabilities and expenses.  To the extent the amount reserved is insufficient to meet the actual amount of our liabilities and expenses, or if our estimates of those liabilities and expenses change in the future, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.. On May 17, 2017, we submitted an offer to enter into Closing Agreements with the IRS covering the CICA and CNLIC domestic life insurance business.  The toll charges calculated and enumerated in the Closing Agreements totaled $124,000 and $4,000 for the CICA and CNLIC domestic life insurance businesses, respectively.. We expect to submit offers to enter into Closing Agreements with the IRS for the SPLIC and MGLIC life insurance business and for the CICA international business and our annuity business in 2018.. The new CICA Life Ltd. (Bermuda) will be subject to extensive government regulation by the Bermuda Monetary Authority (\"BMA\"), which is a new regulatory regime for the Company.  Regulation by the BMA, is subject to change and may increase our costs of doing business, restrict the conduct of our business and negatively impact our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.. For over 40 years, the Company's life insurance subsidiaries have been regulated in the U.S. by the state insurance departments of their states of domicile.  In 2018, CICA Life Ltd. will be subject to extensive regulation and supervision by the BMA in jurisdictions where we do business, including global insurance regulations, tax, financial services, privacy, anti-money laundering, bank secrecy, anti-corruption and foreign asset control laws.  Bermuda insurance company regulation is generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders, with substantially lesser protections to shareholders of the regulated insurance companies.   To that end, the BMA has broad powers to regulate business activities of CICA Life Ltd, mandate capital and surplus requirements, regulate trade and claims practices and require strong enterprise risk management and corporate governance activities.  The Company has no prior experience operating in a foreign jurisdiction and limited experience with regulation by the BMA.. We face financial, liquidity and capital market risks in our operations.. As an insurance holding company with significant investment exposure, we face material financial and capital markets risk in our operations.  Due to the low interest rate environment in recent years, we experienced significant call activity on our fixed income portfolio that decreased our investment yields compared to prior years.  We also have recorded other-than-temporary impairments in the past several years due to credit related market declines and equity market volatility.. We face potential liquidity risks if policyholders with mature policies elect to receive lump sum distributions at greater levels than anticipated. Our whole life and endowment products provide the policyholder with alternatives once the policy matures.  The policyholder can choose to take a lump sum payout or leave the money on deposit at interest with the Company.  The Company has a significant amount of endowment products representing approximately 45.9% of total inforce with older contracts sold historically that will begin reaching their maturities over the next several years and policyholder election behavior is not known.  If policyholders elect lump sum distributions, the Company could be exposed to liquidity risk in years of high maturities. Meeting these distributions could require the Company to sell securities at inopportune times to pay policyholder withdrawals.  Alternatively, if the policyholder were to leave the money on deposit with the Company at interest, our profitability could be negatively impacted if the product guaranteed rate is higher than the current market rate we can earn on our investments.. A large portion of our debt security investment portfolio will mature in the next seven years and could be called sooner as we were subject to significant call activity beginning in 2009 due to the declining interest rate environment and we reinvested into shorter durations that are now approaching maturity.  We will need to reinvest these maturing funds in the current interest rate environment.  Our profitability could be negatively impacted depending on the market rates at the time of reinvestment.  This could result in a decrease in our spread between our policy liability crediting rates and our investment earned rates.  This could also negatively impact our liquidity.. Changes in market interest rates may significantly affect our profitability.. Some of our products, principally traditional whole life insurance with annuity riders, expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce our \"spread,\" or the difference between the amounts we are required to pay under our contracts to policyholders and the rate of return we are able to earn on our investments intended to support obligations under the contracts.  Our spread is an integral component of our net income.. 13. Table of Contents. CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES. If interest rates decrease or remain at low levels, we may be forced to reinvest proceeds from investments that have matured, prepaid, been sold, or called at lower yields, reducing our investment margin.  Our fixed income bond portfolio is exposed to interest rate risk as approximately 55% of the portfolio is callable.  Lowering our interest crediting rates can help offset decreases in investment margins on some of our products.  However, our ability to lower these rates could be limited by competition or contractually guaranteed minimum rates, and may not match the timing or magnitude of changes in asset yields.. An increase in interest rates will decrease the net unrealized gain position of our investment portfolio and may subject us to disintermediation risk.  Disintermediation risk is the risk that in a change from a low interest rate period to a significantly higher and increasing interest rate period, policyholders may surrender their policies or make early withdrawals in order to increase their returns, requiring us to liquidate investments in an unrealized loss position (i.e. the market value less the carrying value of the investments).  This risk is discussed further in the two risk factors below.. Our investment portfolio is subject to various risks that may result in realized investment losses. In particular, decreases in the fair value of fixed maturities may significantly reduce the value of our investments, and as a result, our financial condition may suffer.. We are subject to credit risk in our investment portfolio.  Defaults by third parties in the payment or performance of their obligations under these securities could reduce our investment income and realized investment gains or result in the recognition of investment losses. The value of our investments may be materially adversely affected by increases in interest rates, downgrades in the bonds included in our portfolio and by other factors that may result in the recognition of other-than-temporary impairments.  Each of these events may cause us to reduce the carrying value of our investment portfolio.. In particular, at December 31, 2017, fixed maturities represented $1,208.6 million or 92.5% of our total investments of $1,306.1 million.  The fair value of fixed maturities and the related investment income fluctuates depending on general economic and market conditions.  The fair value of these investments generally increases or decreases in an inverse relationship with fluctuations in interest rates, while net investment income realized by us will generally increase or decrease in line with changes in market interest rates.  In addition, actual net investment income and/or cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, may differ from those anticipated at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations. An investment has prepayment risk when there is a risk that the timing of cash flows resulting from the repayment of principal might occur earlier than anticipated because of declining interest rates or later than anticipated because of rising interest rates.  The impact of value fluctuations affects our consolidated financial statements, as a large portion of our fixed maturities are classified as available-for- sale, with changes in fair value reflected in our stockholders' equity (accumulated other comprehensive income or loss). No similar adjustment is made for liabilities to reflect a change in interest rates.  Therefore, interest rate fluctuations and economic conditions could adversely affect our stockholders' equity, total comprehensive income and/or cash flows.  Although at December 31, 2017, approximately 97.2% of our fixed maturities were investment grade with 75.2% rated A or above, all of our fixed maturities are subject to credit risk.  If any of the issuers of our fixed maturities suffer financial setbacks, the ratings on the fixed maturities could be downgraded (with a concurrent decrease in fair value) and, in a worst-case scenario, the issuer could default on its financial obligations.  If the issuer defaults, we could have realized losses associated with the impairment of the securities.. Valuation of our investments and the determination of whether a decline in the fair value of our invested assets is other-than-temporary are based on estimates that may prove to be incorrect.. U.S. GAAP requires that when the fair value of any of our invested assets declines and the decline is deemed to be other-than-temporary, we recognize a loss in either other comprehensive income or in our statement of income based on certain criteria in the period for which the determination is made. The determination of the fair value of certain invested assets, particularly those that do not trade on a regular basis, requires an assessment of available data and the use of assumptions and estimates. Once it is determined that the fair value of an asset is below its carrying value, we must determine whether the decline in fair value is other-than-temporary, which is based on subjective factors and involves a variety of assumptions and estimates.. There are risks and uncertainties associated with determining whether declines in market value are other-than-temporary. These include significant changes in general economic conditions and business markets, trends in certain industry segments, interest rate fluctuations, rating agency actions, changes in significant accounting estimates and assumptions and legislative actions. In the case of mortgage- and asset-backed securities, there is added uncertainty as to the performance of the underlying collateral assets. To the extent that we are incorrect in our determination of the fair value of our investment securities or our determination that a decline in their value is other-than-temporary, we may realize losses that never actually materialize or may fail to recognize losses within the appropriate reporting period.. 14. Table of Contents. CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES. Gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity and equity securities may be realized or result in future impairments, resulting in a reduction in our net income.. Fixed maturity and equity securities classified as available-for-sale are reported at fair value.  Unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities are recognized as a component of other comprehensive income (loss) and are, therefore, excluded from our net income.  Our total gross unrealized losses on our available-for-sale securities portfolio at December 31, 2017 were $3.1 million.  The accumulated change in estimated fair value of these securities is recognized in net income when the gain or loss is realized upon sale of the security or in the event that the decline in estimated fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary and an impairment charge to earnings is taken.  Realized losses or impairments may have a material adverse effect on our net income in a particular quarterly or annual period.. Our actual claims losses may exceed our reserves for claims, and we may be required to establish additional reserves, which in turn may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.. We maintain reserves to cover our estimated exposure for claims relating to our issued insurance policies.  Reserves, whether calculated under U.S. GAAP or statutory accounting practices prescribed by various state insurance regulators, do not represent an exact calculation of exposure, but instead represent our best estimates, generally involving actuarial projections, of what we expect claims will be based on mortality assumptions that are determined by various regulatory authorities.  Many reserve assumptions are not directly quantifiable, particularly on a prospective basis.  In addition, when we acquire other domestic life insurance companies, our assessment of the adequacy of acquired policy liabilities is subject to our estimates and assumptions.  Reserve estimates are refined as experience develops, and adjustments to reserves are reflected in our statements of operations for the period in which such estimates are updated.  Because establishing reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates of future losses, future developments may require us to increase policy benefit reserves, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition in the periods in which such increases occur.. Unanticipated increases in early policyholder withdrawals or surrenders could negatively impact liquidity.. A primary liquidity concern is the risk of unanticipated or extraordinary early policyholder withdrawals or surrenders.  Our insurance policies include provisions, such as surrender charges, that help limit and discourage early withdrawals, and we track and manage liabilities and attempt to align our investment portfolio to maintain sufficient liquidity to support anticipated withdrawal demands.  However, early withdrawal and surrender levels may differ from anticipated levels for a variety of reasons, including changes in economic conditions, changes in policyholder behavior or financial needs, changes in relationships with our independent consultants, changes in our claims-paying ability, or increases in surrenders among policies that have been in force for more than fifteen years and are no longer subject to surrender charges.  Any of these occurrences could adversely affect our liquidity, profitability and financial condition.. While we own a significant amount of liquid assets, a certain portion of investment assets are relatively illiquid.  If we experience unanticipated early withdrawal or surrender activity, we could exhaust all other sources of liquidity and be forced to obtain additional financing or liquidate assets, perhaps on unfavorable terms.  The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors, such as market conditions, the availability of credit in general or more specifically in the insurance industry, the strength or weakness of the capital markets, the volume of trading activities, our credit capacity, and the perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects if we incur large realized or unrealized investment losses or if the level of business activity declines due to a market downturn.  If we are forced to dispose of assets on unfavorable terms, it could have an adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition.. 15. Table of Contents. CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES. Catastrophes may adversely impact liabilities for policyholder claims and reinsurance availability.. Our insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic events. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Most catastrophes are restricted to small geographic areas; however, hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis and man-made catastrophes may produce significant damage or loss of life in larger areas, especially those that are heavily populated. Claims resulting from catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial condition. In addition, catastrophic events could harm the financial condition of issuers of obligations we hold in our investment portfolio, resulting in impairments to these obligations, and the financial condition of our reinsurers, thereby increasing the probability of default on reinsurance recoveries. Large-scale catastrophes may also reduce the overall level of economic activity in affected countries, which could hurt our business and the value of our investments or our ability to sell new policies.. Our life insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that causes a large number of deaths, especially if concentrated in our top foreign markets. A significant pandemic could have a major impact on the global economy or the economies of particular countries or regions, including travel, trade, tourism, the health system, food supply, consumption, overall economic output and, eventually, on the financial markets. In addition, a pandemic that affected our employees, our policyholders, our independent consultants or other companies with which we do business could disrupt our business operations. The effectiveness of external parties, including governmental and non-governmental organizations, in combating the spread and severity of such a pandemic could have a material impact on the losses experienced by us. These events could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any period and, depending on their severity, could also materially and adversely affect our financial condition.. We may be required to accelerate the amortization of deferred acquisition costs and the costs of customer relationships acquired, which would increase our expenses and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. At December 31, 2017, we had $167.1 million of deferred policy acquisition costs, or DAC.  DAC represents costs that vary with and are directly related to the successful sale and issuance of our insurance policies and are deferred and amortized over the estimated life of the related insurance policies.  These costs include commissions in excess of ultimate renewal commissions, solicitation and printing costs, sales material costs and some support costs, such as underwriting and contract and policy issuance expenses.  Under U.S. GAAP for our type of insurance products, DAC is amortized over the premium-paying period of the policies.. In addition, when we acquire a block of insurance policies, we assign a portion of the purchase price to the right to receive future net cash flows from existing insurance and investment contracts and policies.  This intangible asset, called the cost of customer relationships acquired, or CCRA, represents the actuarially estimated present value of future cash flows from the acquired policies.  At December 31, 2017, we had $17.5 million of CCRA.  We amortize the value of this intangible asset in a manner similar to the amortization of DAC.. The amortization of DAC and CCRA is subject to acceleration and generally depends upon anticipated profits from investments, surrender and other policy charges, mortality, morbidity, persistency and maintenance expense margins.  For example, if our insurance policy lapse and surrender rates were to exceed the assumptions upon which we priced our insurance policies, or if actual persistency proves to be less than our persistency assumptions, especially in the early years of a policy, we might be required to accelerate the amortization of expenses we deferred in connection with the acquisition of the policy.  We regularly review the quality of our DAC and CCRA to determine if they are recoverable from future income.  If these costs are not recoverable, the amount that is not recoverable is charged to expenses in the financial period in which we make this determination.. Unfavorable experience with regard to expected expenses, investment returns, surrender and other policy charges, mortality, morbidity, lapses or persistency may cause us to increase the amortization of DAC or CCRA, or both, or to record a current period expense to increase benefit reserves, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. We may be required to recognize an impairment on the value of our goodwill, which would increase our expenses and materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Goodwill represents the excess of the amount paid by us to acquire various life insurance companies over the fair value of their net assets at the date of the acquisition.  Under U.S. GAAP, we test the carrying value of goodwill for impairment at least annually at the \"reporting unit\" level, which is either an operating segment or a business that is one level below the operating. 16. Table of Contents. CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES. segment.  Goodwill is impaired if its carrying value exceeds its implied fair value.  This may occur for various reasons, including changes in actual or expected earnings or cash flows of a reporting unit, generation of earnings by a reporting unit at a lower rate than similar businesses or declines in market prices for publicly traded businesses similar to our reporting units.  If any portion of our goodwill becomes impaired, we would be required to recognize the amount of the impairment as a current-period expense, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  In 2017, we recognized a goodwill impairment of $4.6 million on our Home Service Segment.  Goodwill in our consolidated financial statements was $12.6 million as of December 31, 2017.. Management's determination of the fair value of each reporting unit incorporates multiple inputs including discounted cash flow calculations based on assumptions that market participants would make in valuing the reporting unit. Other assumptions can include levels of economic capital, future business growth, and earnings projections.. Our conversion to a new actuarial valuation system is not yet complete and contains known uncertainties that could result in identification of additional errors in our financial reporting.. The Company is in the process of converting its actuarial valuation from a third party service provider to an actuarial valuation modeling software system purchased from a vendor.  In connection with our ongoing actuarial valuation conversion, certain legacy system immaterial errors were discovered in both 2017 and 2016.  As we complete this validation and conversion, we could identify additional differences that will be evaluated for financial reporting purposes. The conversion to the new system is expected to be completed in 2018.. We are a defendant in lawsuits, which may adversely affect our financial condition and detract from the time our management is able to devote to our business, and we are subject to risks related to litigation and regulatory matters.. From time to time we are, and have been, subject to a variety of legal and regulatory actions and investigations relating to our business operations, including, but not limited to:. • disputes over insurance coverage or claims adjudication;. • regulatory compliance with state laws, including insurance and securities regulations;. • regulatory compliance with U.S. federal securities laws, tax, anti-money laundering, bank secrecy, anti-bribery, anti-corruption and foreign asset control laws, among others;. • disputes with our independent marketing firms, independent consultants and employee-agents over compensation, termination of contracts, noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations and related claims;. • disputes regarding our tax liabilities;. • disputes relating to reinsurance and coinsurance agreements; and. • disputes relating to businesses acquired and operated by us.. In the absence of countervailing considerations, we would expect to defend any such claims vigorously.  However, in doing so, we could incur significant defense costs, including attorneys' fees, other direct litigation costs and the expenditure of substantial amounts of management time that otherwise would be devoted to our business.  Further, if we suffer an adverse judgment as a result of any claim, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. As noted above, and as disclosed in prior periods, the legal and regulatory actions facing the Company include those relating to compliance with U.S. federal securities laws. Specifically, the Company has been the subject of an investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission (\"SEC\"), which appears to be focused on the Company's internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures in light of the Company's determination in 2015 that a portion of the life insurance and annuity policies issued by its subsidiary insurance companies failed to qualify for the favorable U.S. federal income tax treatment afforded by Sections 7702 and 72(s) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.  There have been no allegations of fraud presented by the SEC.  We have cooperated fully with the investigation and expect that the matter will be resolved soon, although we cannot predict the timing of a resolution or the ultimate outcome of the investigation.. 17. Table of Contents. CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES. Reinsurers with which we do business could increase their premium rates and may not honor their obligations, leaving us liable for the reinsured coverage.. We reinsure certain risks underwritten by our various insurance subsidiaries.  Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we purchase.  The high cost of reinsurance or lack of affordable coverage could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our reinsurance facilities are generally subject to annual renewal.  We may not be able to maintain our current reinsurance facilities and, even if highly desirable or necessary, we may not be able to obtain replacement reinsurance facilities in adequate amounts or at rates economic to us.  If we are unable to renew our expiring facilities or to obtain new reinsurance facilities, either our net exposures would increase or, if we are unwilling or unable to bear an increase in net exposures, we may have to reduce the level of our underwriting commitments.  In addition, our reinsurance facilities may be canceled for new business, pursuant to their terms, upon the occurrence of certain specified events, including a change of control of our Company (generally defined as the acquisition of 10% or more of our voting equity securities) or the failure of our insurance company subsidiaries to maintain the minimum required levels of statutory surplus.  Any of these potential developments could materially adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and financial condition.. In 2017, we reinsured $503.7 million of the face amount of our life insurance policies.  Amounts reinsured in 2017 represented 10.1% of the face amount of direct life insurance in force in that year.  Although the cost of reinsurance is, in some cases, reflected in premium rates, under certain reinsurance agreements, the reinsurer may increase the rate it charges us for reinsurance.  If our cost of reinsurance were to increase, we might not be able to recover these increased costs, and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.  See Note 5 to the Company's consolidated financial statements.. Our international markets face significant competition. If we are unable to compete effectively in our markets, our business, results of operations and profitability may be adversely affected.. Our international marketing plan focuses on making available U.S. dollar-denominated life insurance products to individuals residing in more than 30 countries.  New competition could increase the supply of available insurance, which could adversely affect our ability to price our products at attractive profitable rates and thereby adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and financial condition.  Existing barriers to entry in the foreign markets we serve may not be sufficient to impede potential competitors from entering such markets.  In connection with our business with foreign nationals, we experience competition primarily from the following sources, many of which have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have:. • Foreign operated companies with U.S. dollar-denominated policies.  We face direct competition from companies that operate in the same manner as we operate in our international markets.. • Another group of our competitors in the international marketplace consists of foreign operated companies that have locally operated subsidiaries that offer both local jurisdiction regulated products in local currency and off-shore U.S. dollar-denominated policies.  This arrangement creates competition in that the U.S. dollar-denominated policies are offered in conjunction with high-need local insurance policies such as health insurance.. • Local currency policies provide the benefit of assets located in the country of foreign residents, but entail risks of uncertainty due to local currency fluctuations, as well as the perceived instability and weakness of local currencies.. • Locally operated companies with local currency policies.  We compete with companies formed and operated in the country in which our foreign insureds reside.  Generally, these companies are subject to risks of currency fluctuations, and they primarily use mortality tables based on experience of the local population as a whole.  These mortality tables are typically based on significantly shorter life spans than those we use.  As a result, the cost of insurance from these companies tends to be higher than ours. Although these companies typically market their policies to a broader section of the population than do our independent marketing firms and independent consultants, there can be no assurance that these companies will not endeavor to place a greater emphasis on our target market and compete more directly with us.. In addition, from time to time, companies enter and exit the markets in which we operate, thereby increasing competition at times when there are new entrants.  We may lose business to competitors offering competitive products at lower prices, or for other reasons.. 18. Table of Contents. CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively in any of our markets.  If we do not, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected.. Sales of our insurance products could decline if we are unable to (i) establish and maintain commercial relationships with independent marketing firms and independent consultants, (ii) attract and retain employee agents or (iii) develop and maintain our distribution sources.. We distribute our insurance products through several distribution channels, including independent marketing firms, independent consultants and our employee agents.  These relationships are significant for both our revenues and our profits.  In our life insurance segment, we depend almost exclusively on the services of independent marketing firms and independent consultants.  In our home service insurance segment, we depend on employee agents whose role in our distribution process is integral to developing and maintaining relationships with policyholders.  Significant competition exists among insurers in attracting and maintaining marketers of demonstrated ability.  Some of our competitors may offer better compensation packages for marketing firms, independent consultants and agents and broader arrays of products and have a greater diversity of distribution resources, better brand recognition, more competitive pricing, lower cost structures and greater financial strength or claims paying ratings than we do.  We compete with other insurers for marketing firms, independent consultants and employee agents primarily on the basis of our compensation and support services.  Any reduction in our ability to attract and retain effective sales representatives could materially adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and financial condition.. There may be adverse tax, legal or financial consequences if our sales representatives are determined not to be independent contractors.. Our international sales representatives are independent contractors who operate their own businesses. Although we believe that we have properly classified our representatives as independent contractors, there is nevertheless a risk that the IRS, a foreign agency, a court or other authority will take the different view that our sales representatives should be treated like employees. Furthermore, the tests governing the determination of whether an individual is considered to be an independent contractor or an employee are typically fact-sensitive and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Laws and regulations that govern the status and misclassification of independent sales representatives are subject to change or interpretation.. If there is a change in the manner in which our independent contractors are classified or  an adverse determination with respect to some or all of our independent contractors by a court or governmental agency, we could incur significant costs in complying with such laws and regulations, including in respect of tax withholding, social security payments, government and private pension plan contributions and recordkeeping, or we may be required to modify our business model, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, there is the risk that we may be subject to significant monetary liabilities arising from fines or judgments as a result of any such actual or alleged non-compliance with applicable federal, state, local or foreign laws.. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation in the United States, which is subject to change and may increase our costs of doing business, restrict the conduct of our business and negatively impact our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.. We are subject to extensive regulation and supervision in U.S. jurisdictions where we do business, including state insurance regulations and U.S. federal securities, tax, financial services, privacy, anti-money laundering, bank secrecy, anti-corruption and foreign asset control laws.  Insurance company regulation is generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders, with substantially lesser protections to shareholders of the regulated insurance companies.  To that end, all the states in which we do business have insurance regulatory agencies with broad legal powers with respect to licensing companies to transact business; mandating capital and surplus requirements; regulating trade and claims practices; approving policy forms; and restricting companies' ability to enter and exit markets.. The capacity for an insurance company's growth in premiums is partially a function of its required statutory surplus.  Maintaining appropriate levels of statutory surplus, as measured by statutory accounting practices prescribed or permitted by a company's state of domicile, is considered important by all state insurance regulatory authorities.  Failure to maintain required levels of statutory surplus could result in increased regulatory scrutiny and enforcement action by regulatory authorities.. Most insurance regulatory authorities have broad discretion to grant, renew, suspend and revoke licenses and approvals, and could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities, including acquisitions of other insurance companies, require us to add capital to our insurance company subsidiaries, or fine us.  If we are unable to maintain all required licenses and approvals, or if our insurance business is determined not to comply fully with the wide variety of applicable laws and. 19. Table of Contents. CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES. regulations and their interpretations, including the USA Patriot Act, our revenues, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. Our failure to maintain effective information systems could adversely affect our business.. We must maintain and enhance our existing information systems and develop new information systems in order to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards and changing customer preferences.  If we do not maintain adequate systems, we could experience adverse consequences, including products acquired through acquisition, inadequate information on which to base pricing, underwriting and reserve decisions, regulatory problems, failure to meet prompt payment obligations, increases in administrative expenses and loss of customers.. Some of our information technology systems and software are mainframe-based, legacy-type systems that require an ongoing commitment of resources to maintain current standards.  Our systems utilize proprietary code requiring highly skilled personnel.  Due to the unique nature of our proprietary operating environment, we could have difficulty finding personnel with the skills required to provide ongoing system maintenance and development as we seek to keep pace with changes in our products and business models, information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards and policyholder needs.  Our success is dependent upon, among other things, maintaining and enhancing the effectiveness of existing systems, as well as continuing to integrate, develop and enhance our information systems to support business processes in a cost-effective manner.. Our failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems, or our failure to efficiently and effectively consolidate our information systems to eliminate redundant or obsolete applications, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Failures of disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, impair our ability to timely file reports with the SEC and subject us to litigation and/or regulatory scrutiny and penalties.. We maintain disclosure controls and procedures designed to ensure that we timely report information as specified in SEC rules and regulations. We also maintain a system of internal control over financial reporting. However, these controls may not achieve, and in some cases have not achieved, their intended objectives. Control processes that involve human diligence and oversight, such as our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, are subject to human error. Controls that rely on models may be subject to inadequate design or inaccurate assumptions or estimates.  Controls also can be circumvented by improper management override of such controls. Because of such limitations, there are risks that material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected, and that information may not be reported on a timely basis. The failure of our controls to be effective could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the market for our common stock, and could subject us to litigation, regulatory scrutiny and/or penalties.. As disclosed in Part II, Item 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have identified control deficiencies in our disclosure controls and financial reporting process that constitute material weaknesses and for which remediation is still in process as of December 31, 2017.  If we fail to design effective controls, fail to remediate control deficiencies or fail to otherwise maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting in the future, such failures could result in a material misstatement of our annual or quarterly financial statements that would not be prevented or detected on a timely basis and which could cause investors to lose confidence in our financial statements, have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock, limit our ability to obtain financing if needed or increase the cost of any financing we may obtain.  In addition, these failures may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations, impair our ability to timely file our periodic reports with the SEC, subject us to litigation and regulatory scrutiny and cause us to incur substantial additional costs in future periods relating to the implementation of remedial measures.. Our failure to protect confidential information and privacy could result in the unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential corporate or customer information, damage to our reputation, loss of customers, fines, penalties and adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to privacy regulations.  The actions we take to protect confidential information include among other things: monitoring our record retention plans and policies and any changes in state or federal privacy and compliance requirements; maintaining secure storage facilities for tangible records; and limiting access to electronic information in order to safeguard certain information.. 20. Table of Contents. CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES. We have a written information security program with appropriate administrative, technical and physical safeguards to protect such confidential information.  Cyber security attacks are on the rise throughout the world and while we believe we have taken reasonable steps to secure our customer information we could experience a breach of data.  We closely monitor cyber attack attempts on our system, and we are not aware of any material breach of our cybersecurity, administrative, technical and physical safeguards or client data.  Nevertheless, it is possible a cyber attack could go undetected and that preventative actions we take to reduce this risk of cyber-incidents and protect our information may be insufficient to prevent cyber attacks or other security breaches.. If we do not comply with privacy regulations and protect confidential information, we could experience adverse consequences, including regulatory sanctions, loss of reputation, litigation exposure, disruptions to our operations or significant technical, legal and operating expenses, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our insurance subsidiaries are restricted by applicable laws and regulations in the amounts of fees, dividends and other distributions they may make to us.  The inability of our subsidiaries to make payments to us in sufficient amounts for us to conduct our operations could adversely affect our ability to meet our obligations or expand our business.. As a holding company, our principal asset is the stock of our subsidiaries.  We rely primarily on statutorily permissible payments from our insurance company subsidiaries, principally through service agreements we have with our subsidiaries, to meet our working capital and other corporate expenses.  The ability of our insurance company subsidiaries to make payments to us is subject to regulation by the states in which they are domiciled, and these payments depend primarily on approved service agreements between us and these subsidiaries and, to a lesser extent, the statutory surplus (which is the excess of assets over liabilities as determined under statutory accounting practices prescribed by an insurance company's state of domicile), future statutory earnings (which are earnings as determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices) and regulatory restrictions.. Generally, the net assets of our insurance company subsidiaries available for dividends are limited to either the lesser or greater (depending on the state of domicile) of the subsidiary's net gain from operations during the preceding year and 10% of the subsidiary's net statutory surplus as of the end of the preceding year as determined in accordance with accounting practices prescribed by insurance regulatory authorities.. Except to the extent that we are a creditor with recognized claims against our subsidiaries, claims of our subsidiaries' creditors, including policyholders, have priority with respect to the assets and earnings of the subsidiaries over the claims of our creditors and shareholders.  If any of our subsidiaries becomes insolvent, liquidates or otherwise reorganizes, our creditors and shareholders will have no right to proceed in their own right against the assets of that subsidiary or to cause the liquidation, bankruptcy or winding-up of the subsidiary under applicable liquidation, bankruptcy or winding-up laws.. Unexpected losses in future reporting periods may require us to adjust the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets.. We evaluate our deferred tax asset (\"DTA\") quarterly for recoverability based on available evidence.  This process involves management's judgment about assumptions, which are subject to change from period to period due to tax rate changes or variances between our projected operating performance and our actual results.  Ultimately, future adjustments to the DTA valuation allowance, if any, will be determined based upon changes in the expected realization of the net deferred tax assets.  The realization of the deferred tax assets depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income in either the carry back or carry forward periods under applicable tax law.  Due to significant estimates utilized in establishing the valuation allowance and the potential for changes in facts and circumstances, it is reasonably possible that we may be required to record a valuation allowance in future reporting periods.  Such an adjustment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation, financial condition and capital position.. We face a greater risk of money laundering activity associated with sales derived from residents of certain foreign countries.. Some of our top international markets are in countries identified by the U.S. Department of State as jurisdictions of high risk for money laundering.  As required by Bank Secrecy Act (\"BSA\") regulations applicable to insurance companies, we have developed and implemented an anti-money laundering program that includes policies and procedures for complying with our applicable BSA program, auditing, reporting and recordkeeping requirements and for deterring, preventing and detecting potential money laundering, fraud and other criminal activity (\"BSA Program\").  We have an enhanced BSA Program with additional controls, such as list screening software beyond sanctions screening required by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (\"OFAC\"), enhanced payment due diligence and transaction controls.  However, there can be no assurance that these enhanced controls will entirely mitigate money laundering risk associated with these jurisdictions.. 21. Table of Contents. CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES. Risks Relating to Our Capital Stock. If our foreign policyholders reduced or ceased participation in our Stock Investment Plan (the \"Plan\") or if a securities regulatory authority were to deem the CISIP's operation contrary to securities laws, the volume of Class A common stock purchased on the open market through the CISIP, and the price of our Class A common stock, could fall.. More than 96% of the shares of Class A common stock purchased under the CISIP in 2017 were purchased by foreign holders of life insurance policies (or related brokers); the remaining 4% of the shares of Class A common stock purchased under the CISIP in 2017 were purchased by approximately 1,864 participants resident in the United States.  The CISIP is registered with the SEC pursuant to a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, but is not registered under the laws of any foreign jurisdiction.  If a foreign securities regulatory authority were to determine the offer and sale of our Class A common stock under the CISIP were contrary to applicable laws and regulations of its jurisdiction, such authority may issue or assert a fine, penalty or cease and desist order against us in that foreign jurisdiction.  There is a risk our Class A common stock price could be negatively impacted by a decrease in participation in the CISIP.  If fewer policyholders elect to participate in the Plan, or our international premium collections were to decrease as a result of regulatory, economic, or marketing impediments, the trading volume of our Class A common stock may decline from its present levels, the demand for our Class A common stock could be negatively impacted and the price of our Class A common stock could fall.. Control of our Company, through the ownership of our Class B Common Stock, has transferred from our founder to a 501(c)(3) charitable foundation established by our founder, and we cannot determine whether any change in our management, operations, or operating strategies will occur as a result of this ownership change.. Harold E. Riley, our founder, was the beneficial owner of 100% of our Class B common stock, which was held in the name of the Harold E. Riley Trust (\"Trust\"), of which he had served as Trustee until his death in September 2017.  Our Class A and Class B common stock are identical in all respects, except the Class B common stock elects a simple majority of the Board and receives one-half of any cash dividends paid, on a per share basis, to the Class A shares.  The Class A common stock elects the remainder of the Board.  The Trust documents provided that upon Mr. Riley's death, the Class B common stock was transferred from the Trust to the Harold E. Riley Foundation, a charitable organization established under 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code (the \"Foundation\"). Therefore, the Foundation controls our Company.  The Foundation is organized as a public support charity for the benefit of its charitable beneficiaries, Baylor University and Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary.  The Foundation is governed by 11 trustees, five of which were appointed by Harold Riley prior to his death, three of which were appointed by Baylor University and three of which were appointed by Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary.  It is unclear what, if any, change will occur to our board, management, or corporate operating strategies as a result of different ownership of our Class B common stock.  The transfer of our Class B common stock from the Trust has triggered the first of two prongs of certain \"change in control\" provisions in the employment agreements of our top two executives Chief Executive Officer Geoff Kolander and Chief Financial Officer Kay Osbourn. Under each employment agreement, a \"change in control\" includes, among other things (1) the transfer of a majority of the Company's Class B common stock from the Trust to an individual other than Harold E. Riley, an entity not beneficially owned by Harold E. Riley, or a trust not controlled by Harold E. Riley and (2) the exercise of a power of attorney granted by Harold E. Riley over the Company's Class B common stock. Upon a termination of the executive by Citizens without cause or the executive's voluntary termination with Good Reason, in each case other than within the ninety (90) day period prior to the consummation of a change in control or within one (1) year following a change in control, the executive would be entitled to certain cash payments and benefits.. There are a substantial number of our shares of Class A common stock issued to our executive officers and directors which are eligible for future sale in the public market.  The sale of these shares could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to fall.. There were 49,080,114 shares of our Class A common stock issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2017.  Our executive officers and directors owned approximately 54,436 shares of our Class A common stock as of December 31, 2017, representing approximately 0.1% of our then outstanding Class A common stock.  Almost all of these shares have been registered for public resale and generally may be sold freely.  In the event of a sale of some or all of these shares or the perceived sale of these shares, the market price of our Class A common stock could fall substantially.. 22. Table of Contents. CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES. The price of our Class A common stock may be volatile and may be affected by market conditions beyond our control.. Our Class A common stock price has historically fluctuated and is likely to fluctuate in the future and could decline materially because of the volatility of the stock market in general, decreased participation in the CISIP referred to above or a variety of other factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: quarterly or annual variations in actual or anticipated results of our operations; interest rate fluctuations; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; competition and other factors affecting the life insurance business generally; and conditions in the U.S. and world economies.. Our international markets, and the specific manner in which we conduct our business in those jurisdictions, may be subject to negative publicity in social media or other channels, which may negatively impact the market price of our Class A common stock.. We interface with and distribute our products to residents of foreign countries that may be subject to the risks disclosed in our Item 1A. Risk Factor under the heading, \"The majority of our sales derive from residents of foreign countries and are subject to risks associated with widespread political instability, currency control laws and foreign insurance laws.  A significant loss of sales in these foreign markets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition\".  Venezuela is one such example.  Accordingly, from time to time, bloggers or other social media outlets relevant to investors may focus attention on our exposure to these countries and the negative circumstances surrounding their governments, thereby subjecting us to periodic negative publicity.  Negative publicity on investor blogs or through other media channels could impact trading in our stock especially due to aggressive and coordinated efforts between anonymous bloggers and short sellers which ultimately cause the market price of our Class A common stock to fall.. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws, as well as applicable state insurance laws, may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our shareholders might consider to be in their best interests.. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws, as well as various state insurance laws, may delay, deter, render more difficult or prevent a takeover attempt our shareholders might consider in their best interests.  As a result, our shareholders will be prevented from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our Class A common stock that may be offered by a bidder in a takeover context.  Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our Class A common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future.. The following provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws make it difficult for our Class A shareholders to replace or remove our directors and have other anti-takeover effects that may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt:. • holders of shares of our Class B common stock elect a simple majority of our board of directors, and all of these shares are owned by the Harold E. Riley Foundation; and. • our board of directors may issue one or more series of preferred stock without the approval of our shareholders.. State insurance laws generally require prior approval of a change in control of an insurance company.  Generally, such laws provide that control over an insurer is presumed to exist if any person, directly or indirectly, owns, controls, holds with the power to vote, or holds proxies representing 10% or more of the voting securities of the insurer.  In considering an application to acquire control of an insurer, an insurance commissioner generally will consider such factors as the experience, competence and financial strength of the proposed acquirer, the integrity of the proposed acquirer's board of directors and executive officers, the proposed acquirer's plans for the management and operation of the insurer, and any anti-competitive results that may arise from the acquisition.  In addition, a person seeking to acquire control of an insurance company is required in some states to make filings prior to completing an acquisition if the acquirer and the target insurance company and their affiliates have sufficiently large market shares in particular lines of insurance in those states.  These state insurance requirements may delay, deter or prevent our ability to complete an acquisition.. We have never paid any cash dividends on our Class A common stock and do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future.. We have never paid cash dividends on our Class A common stock, as it is our policy to retain earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business.  We do not expect to pay cash dividends on our Class A common stock for the foreseeable future.. 23. Table of Contents. CITIZENS, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES"
