[1] "ITEM 1A.   Risk Factors. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, and as a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline.. Increases in tissue supply, particularly in the premium and ultra categories, could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. Over the past few years, several new or refurbished premium and ultra-quality tissue paper machines have been completed or announced by us and by our competitors, including private label competitors, which will result in a substantial increase in the supply of premium and ultra-quality tissue in the North American market. Additionally, several new or refurbished conventional tissue machines have been installed or announced, including as a result of foreign competitors increasing their presence and operations in North America. We believe that increasing tissue capacity, together with intensifying competition experienced by our retail customers, has made it difficult for us to pass through to our customers the significant increases in input costs we have experienced in the last several years. If demand for tissue products in the North American market does not increase or consumer preferences as to tissue products changes, the increase in supply of ultra-quality tissue products could have a material adverse effect on the price of premium and ultra-quality tissue products. In addition, increased supply of premium and ultra-quality tissue may adversely affect the market prices for such tissue and result in the displacement of demand for conventional tissue, which could adversely effect the market price for conventional tissue products, which will continue to represent a significant portion of our total production for the foreseeable future.. The loss of, or a significant reduction in, orders from, or changes in prices in regards to, any of our large customers could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. We derive a substantial amount of revenues from a concentrated group of customers. For example, our top 10 consumer products customers in 2017 accounted for approximately 80% of our total consumer products net sales. We have experienced increased price and promotion competition for our consumer products customers, particularly in regards to ultra-quality products, and this competition has decreased our gross margins and adversely affected our financial condition. Our top 10 paperboard customers in 2017 accounted for approximately 45% of our total paperboard net sales. If we lose any of these customers or a substantial portion of their business or if the terms of our relationship with any of them becomes less favorable to us, our net sales would decline, which would harm our results of operations and financial condition. Some of our customers have the capability to produce the parent rolls or products that they purchase from us.. We generally do not have long-term contracts with many of our customers that ensure a continuing level of business from them. In addition, our agreements with our customers, including our largest customers, are not exclusive and generally do not contain minimum volume purchase commitments. Our relationship with our largest and most important customers will depend on our ability to continue to meet their needs for quality products and services at competitive prices. If we lose one or more of these customers or if we experience a significant decline in the level of purchases by any of them, we may not be able to quickly replace the lost business volume and our operating results and business could be harmed. In the third quarter of 2017, our largest tissue customer made the decision to go from a single source model to a multi-source model for their private label tissue supply beginning in the first quarter of 2018. This decision will primarily affect conventional tissue supply to this customer and we do not expect to be able to fully replace this lost volume in 2018 through sales to other customers.. Competitors' branded products and private label products could have an adverse effect on our financial results.. Our consumer products compete with well-known, branded products, as well as other private label products. Our business may be harmed by new product offerings by competitors, the effects of consolidation within retailer and distribution channels, and price competition from companies that may have greater financial resources than we do. If we are unable to offer our existing customers, or new customers, tissue products comparable to branded products or private label products in terms of quality, customer service, and/or price, we may lose business or we may not be able to grow our existing business and be forced to sell lower-margin products, all of which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Changing retail purchasing patterns have increased the need to increase operating efficiencies and diversify our customer base and sales channels.. We have historically sold a majority of our consumer tissue products through retail grocery stores.  These and other traditional retail outlets are facing increasingly intense competition from supercenters, club stores, wholesale grocers,. 9. and drug, dollar, variety and specialty stores, as well as competitors who have incorporated the internet as a direct-to-consumer channel and internet-only providers that sell tissue and other grocery products.  The intense competition faced by our customers has resulted in increased efforts by them to reduce costs from suppliers like us and requires that we become more cost efficient in order to maintain our market share and profitability.  The changing retail landscape also requires that we develop and maintain relationships with a wider variety of retailers and retail channels to succeed in this dynamic environment.. Our operational efficiency optimization and cost-saving goals may not be fully achieved or may not support the level of investment or commitment we are making.. Our near term strategy of improving our competitive position by investing to achieve increased operational efficiencies and implementing cost control measures may not be fully achieved. Those goals, along with the capital projects we have invested in or are investing in to help achieve these goals, including the continuous digester at our Lewiston facility and warehouse automation at several facilities, may not achieve expected operational or financial results in the time frames we anticipate, or at all. Such delays or failures could materially affect our business, cash flows and financial condition.. The expansion of our business through the construction of new tissue making and converting facilities may not proceed as anticipated.. In connection with our long-term expansion strategy, we are adding a paper machine capable of producing certain premium and ultra-quality tissue products, and converting facilities to our Shelby, North Carolina site. The tissue machine to be installed in North Carolina is highly complex and costly and it can be manufactured by only one company in the world. Installing this machine and building the supporting facilities entails numerous risks, including difficulties in completing the project on time due to construction or permitting issues, cost overruns, difficulties in integrating the new operations and personnel, and uncertainties regarding the existence of sufficient customer demand and acceptance of the quality of the tissue produced once the new paper machine becomes operational. Any of these risks, if realized, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. In addition, such events could also divert management's attention from other business concerns.. United States and global economic conditions could have adverse effects on the demand for our products and financial results.. U.S. and global economic conditions and currency exchange rates have a significant impact on our business and financial results. Recessed global economic conditions and a strong U.S. dollar can affect our business in a number of ways, including causing declines in global demand for consumer tissue and paperboard, which increases the likelihood or the pace of foreign manufacturers entering into or increasing sales into the U.S. market.. Increased competition and supply from foreign manufacturers could have adverse effects on the demand for our products and financial results.. Foreign manufacturers in Asia and Europe are currently in the process of increasing, and are expected to continue to increase, their paperboard production capabilities. This, in turn, may result in increased competition in the North American paperboard markets from direct sales by foreign competitors into these markets and/or increased competition in the U.S. as domestic manufacturers seek increased U.S. sales to offset displaced overseas sales caused by increased sales by foreign suppliers into Asia and European markets. An increased supply of foreign paperboard products could cause us to lower our prices or lose sales to competitors, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.. Our business and financial performance may be harmed by future labor disruptions.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 49% of our full-time employees were represented by unions under collective bargaining agreements. As these agreements expire, we may not be able to negotiate extensions or replacement agreements on terms acceptable to us. In 2017, the collective bargaining agreements for hourly employees at our Lewiston, Idaho facility, which affects approximately 1,010 employees, expired and are currently being negotiated. Any failure to reach an agreement with one of the unions may result in strikes, lockouts, work slowdowns, stoppages or other labor actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results.. Disruptions in transportation services or increases in our transportation costs could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our business, particularly our consumer products business, is dependent on transportation services to deliver our products to our customers and to deliver raw materials to us. Shipments of products and raw materials may be delayed or disrupted due to weather conditions, labor shortages or strikes, regulatory actions or other events. If our transportation providers are unavailable or fail to deliver our products in a timely manner, we may incur increased costs. If any. 10. transportation providers are unavailable or fail to deliver raw materials to us in a timely manner, we may be unable to manufacture products on a timely basis.. The costs of these transportation services are also affected by geopolitical and economic events. In 2017, our transportation costs were 11.6% of our sales, with those costs spiking in the second half of 2017 as the result of higher line haul rates, diesel prices and weather related events. We have not been able in the past, and may not be able in the future, to pass along part or all of any fuel price increases to customers. If we are unable to increase our prices as a result of increased fuel or transportation costs, our gross margins may be materially adversely affected.. We depend on external sources of wood pulp and wood fiber for a significant portion of our tissue production, which subjects our business and results of operations to potentially significant fluctuations in the price of market pulp and wood fiber.. Our Consumer Products segment sources a significant portion of its wood pulp requirements from external suppliers, which exposes us to price fluctuation. In 2017, we sourced approximately 54% of our pulp requirements for tissue manufacturing externally, comprising approximately 11.2% of our sales.. Pulp prices can, and have, changed significantly from one period to the next. The volatility of pulp prices can adversely affect our earnings if we are unable to pass cost increases on to our customers or if the timing of any price increases for our products significantly trails the increases in pulp prices. In 2017, we were not able to pass on these pulp price increases to our customers due to competitive conditions.. Wood fiber is the principal raw material used to create wood pulp, which in turn is used to manufacture our pulp and paperboard products and consumer products. In 2017, our wood fiber costs were 7.8% of our sales. Much of the wood fiber we use in our pulp manufacturing process in Lewiston, Idaho, is the by-product of sawmill operations. As a result, the price of these residual wood fibers is affected by operating levels in the lumber industry. The significant reduction in home building over the past several years resulted in the closure or curtailment of operations at many sawmills and consolidation amongst suppliers. The expansion of operations and production of other paper mills and wood pellet manufacturers in the Inland Northwest region of the United States can, and has, increased the demand and price for wood fiber. Additionally, the ability of paper and wood pellet mills in British Columbia to acquire wood fiber from the Inland Northwest region with limited to no reciprocal ability by U.S. mills to acquire wood fiber from British Columbia, reduces the supply of and increases the costs for wood fiber. The price of wood fiber is expected to remain volatile.. The supply and price of wood fiber can also be negatively affected by weather and other events. For example, our Arkansas pulp and paperboard facility relies on whole log chips for a significant portion of its wood fiber, and in the past this facility has experienced increases in the costs for wood fiber due to extremely wet weather conditions in the Southeastern U.S. that limited accessibility and availability.. The effects on market prices for wood fiber resulting from various governmental programs involving tax credits or payments related to biomass and other renewable energy projects are uncertain and could result in a reduction in the supply of wood fiber available for our pulp and paperboard manufacturing operations. Additionally, wood pellet facilities or fluff pulp facilities, such as a fluff pulp facility recently announced in Arkansas, can increase demand and prices for wood fiber. If we and our pulp suppliers are unable to obtain wood fiber at favorable prices or at all, our costs will increase and our operations and financial results may be harmed.. We incur significant expenses to maintain our manufacturing equipment and any interruption in the operations of our facilities may harm our operating performance.. We regularly incur significant expenses to maintain our manufacturing equipment and facilities. The machines and equipment that we use to produce our products are complex, have many parts and some are run on a continuous basis. We must perform routine maintenance on our equipment and will have to periodically replace a variety of parts such as motors, pumps, pipes and electrical parts. In addition, our pulp and paperboard facilities require periodic shutdowns to perform major maintenance. These scheduled shutdowns of facilities result in decreased sales and increased costs in the periods in which they occur and could result in unexpected operational issues in future periods as a result of changes to equipment and operational and mechanical processes made during the shutdown period. We had two scheduled major maintenance shutdowns in 2017, which occurred during the second quarter at our Arkansas facility and the third quarter at our Lewiston, Idaho pulp and paperboard facility.. Unexpected production disruptions could cause us to shut down or curtail operations at any of our facilities. For example, we had a fire in the first quarter of 2017 at our Shelby, North Carolina facility. Disruptions could occur due to any number of circumstances, including prolonged power outages, mechanical or process failures, shortages of raw materials, natural catastrophes, disruptions in the availability of transportation, labor disputes, terrorism, changes in or non-compliance with environmental or safety laws and the lack of availability of services from any of our facilities' key suppliers. Any facility shutdowns may be followed by prolonged startup periods, regardless of the reason for the. 11. shutdown. Those startup periods could range from several days to several weeks, depending on the reason for the shutdown and other factors. Any prolonged disruption in operations at any of our facilities could cause significant lost production, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. The cost of chemicals and energy needed for our manufacturing processes significantly affects our results of operations and cash flows.. We use a variety of chemicals in our manufacturing processes, including petroleum-based polyethylene and certain petroleum-based latex chemicals. In 2017, our chemical costs were 9.6% of our sales. Prices for these chemicals have been and are expected to remain volatile. In addition, chemical suppliers that use petroleum-based products in the manufacture of their chemicals may, due to supply shortages and cost increases, ration the amount of chemicals available to us, and therefore we may not be able to obtain at favorable prices the chemicals we need to operate our business, if we are able to obtain them at all.. Our manufacturing operations also utilize large amounts of electricity and natural gas. In 2017, our energy costs were 5.0% of our sales. Energy prices have fluctuated widely over the past decade, which in turn affects our cost of sales. We purchase on the open market a substantial portion of the natural gas necessary to produce our products, and, as a result, the price and other terms of those purchases are subject to change based on factors such as worldwide supply and demand, geopolitical events, government regulation, and natural disasters. Our energy costs in future periods will depend principally on our ability to produce a substantial portion of our electricity needs internally, on changes in market prices for natural gas and on reducing energy usage. Any significant energy shortage or significant increase in our energy costs in circumstances where we cannot raise the price of our products could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Any disruption in the supply of energy could also affect our ability to meet customer demand in a timely manner and could harm our reputation.. Cyclical industry conditions have in the past affected and may continue to adversely affect the operating results and cash flows of our pulp and paperboard business.. Our pulp and paperboard business has historically been affected by cyclical market conditions. We may be unable to sustain pricing in the face of weaker demand, and weaker demand may in turn cause us to take production downtime. In addition to lost revenue from lower shipment volumes, production downtime causes unabsorbed fixed manufacturing costs due to lower production levels. Our results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected in a period of prolonged and significant market weakness. We are not able to predict market conditions or our ability to sustain pricing and production levels during periods of weak demand.. We rely on information technology in critical areas of our operations, and a disruption relating to such technology could harm our financial condition.. We use information technology, or IT, systems in various aspects of our operations, including enterprise resource planning, or ERP, management of inventories and customer sales. Some of these systems have been in place for long periods of time. We have different legacy IT systems that we are continuing to integrate. If one of these systems was to fail or cause operational or reporting interruptions, or if we decide to change these systems or hire outside parties to provide these systems, we may suffer disruptions, which could have a material adverse effect on our manufacturing and sales operation, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may underestimate the costs and expenses of developing and implementing new systems.. We may be required to pay material amounts under multiemployer pension plans.. We contribute to two multiemployer pension plans. The amount of our annual contributions to each of these plans is negotiated with the plan and the bargaining unit representing our employees covered by the plan. In 2017, we contributed approximately $6 million to these plans, and in future years we may be required to make increased annual contributions, which would reduce the cash available for business and other needs. In addition, in the event of a partial or complete withdrawal by us from any multiemployer plan that is underfunded, we would be liable for a proportionate share of such multiemployer plan's unfunded vested benefits, referred to as a withdrawal liability. A withdrawal liability is considered a contingent liability. In the event that any other contributing employer withdraws from any multiemployer plan that is underfunded, and such employer cannot satisfy its obligations under the multiemployer plan at the time of withdrawal, then the proportionate share of the plan's unfunded vested benefits that would be allocable to us and to the other remaining contributing employers would increase and there could be an increase to our required annual contributions. In renegotiations of collective bargaining agreements with labor unions that participate in these multiemployer plans, we may decide to discontinue participation in these plans.. One of the multiemployer pension plans to which we contribute, the PACE Industry Union-Management Pension Fund, or PIUMPF, was certified to be in \"critical status\" for the plan year beginning January 1, 2010, and continued to be in critical status through the plan year beginning January 1, 2014. For the plan years beginning January 1, 2015 through. 12. January 1, 2017, PIUMPF was certified to be in \"critical and declining status\" under the Multiemployer Pension Plan Reform Act of 2014. In 2013, two large employers withdrew from PIUMPF and in 2015 the largest employer in PIUMPF also withdrew. Additional employers have continued to withdraw, or announced plans to withdraw, from the fund in 2016 and 2017, including the second largest remaining employer in early 2018. We believe that we are now the largest contributing employer. Further withdrawals by contributing employers could cause a \"mass withdrawal\" from, or effectively a termination of, PIUMPF or alternatively we could elect to withdraw. Although we have no current intention to withdraw from PIUMPF, if we were to withdraw, either completely or partially, we would incur a withdrawal liability based on our share of PIUMPF's unfunded vested benefits. Based on our records as of December 31, 2017, as well as information provided by PIUMPF, and reviewed by our actuarial consultant, we estimate that, as of December 31, 2017, the payments that we would be required to make to PIUMPF in the event of our complete withdrawal would be approximately $5.7 million per year on a pre-tax basis. These payments would continue for 20 years, unless we were deemed to be included in a \"mass withdrawal\" from PIUMPF, in which case these payments would continue in perpetuity. PIUMPF's rehabilitation plan also purports to require additional accumulated funding deficiency amounts due upon a withdrawal that we believe to be unenforceable.. However, we are not able to determine the exact amount of our withdrawal liability because the amount could be higher or lower depending on the nature and timing of any triggering event, the funded status of the plan and our level of contributions to the plan prior to the triggering event. These withdrawal liability payments would be in addition to pension contributions to any new pension plan adopted or contributed to by us to replace PIUMPF, all of which would reduce the cash available for business and other needs. Adverse changes to or requirements under pension laws and regulations or adverse changes, requirements or claims pursuant to the fund's rehabilitation plan could increase the likelihood and amount of our liabilities arising under PIUMPF.. Our company-sponsored pension plans are currently underfunded, and we may be required to make cash payments to the plans, reducing cash available for our business.. We have company-sponsored pension plans covering certain of our salaried and hourly employees. The volatility in the value of equity and fixed income investments held by these plans, coupled with a low interest rate environment resulting in higher liability valuations, has caused these plans to be underfunded as the projected benefit obligation has exceeded the aggregate fair value of plan assets by varying year-end amounts since 2008. At December 31, 2017, and 2016, our company sponsored pension plans were underfunded in the aggregate by $6.8 million and $18.8 million, respectively. As a result of underfunding, we may be required to make contributions to our qualified pension plans in future years, which would reduce the cash available for business and other needs. In 2017, we made no contributions to these pension plans, and we are not required to make contributions in 2018.. We are subject to significant environmental regulation and environmental compliance expenditures, which could increase our costs and subject us to liabilities.. We are subject to various federal, state and foreign environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, water discharges, air emissions, hazardous material and waste management and environmental cleanup. Environmental laws and regulations continue to evolve and we may become subject to increasingly stringent environmental standards in the future, particularly under air quality and water quality laws and standards related to climate change issues, such as reporting of greenhouse gas emissions. Increased regulatory activity at the state, federal and international level is possible regarding climate change as well as other emerging environmental issues associated with our manufacturing sites, such as water quality standards based on elevated fish consumption rates. Compliance with regulations that implement new public policy in these areas might require significant expenditures on our part or even the curtailment of certain of our manufacturing operations.. We are required to comply with environmental laws and the terms and conditions of multiple environmental permits. In particular, the pulp and paper industry in the United States is subject to several performance based rules associated with effluent and air emissions as a result of certain of its manufacturing processes. Federal, state and local laws and regulations require us to routinely obtain authorizations from and comply with the evolving standards of the appropriate governmental authorities, which have considerable discretion over the terms of permits. Failure to comply with environmental laws and permit requirements could result in civil or criminal fines or penalties or enforcement actions, including regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing our operations or requiring us to take corrective measures, install pollution control equipment, or take other remedial actions, such as product recalls or labeling changes. We also may be required to make additional expenditures, which could be significant, relating to environmental matters on an ongoing basis. There can be no assurance that future environmental permits will be granted or that we will be able to maintain and renew existing permits, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. 13. We own properties, conduct or have conducted operations at properties, and have assumed indemnity obligations for properties or operations where hazardous materials have been or were used for many years, including during periods before careful management of these materials was required or generally believed to be necessary. Consequently, we will continue to be subject to risks under environmental laws that impose liability for historical releases of hazardous substances and to liability for other potential violations of environmental laws or permits at existing sites or ones for which we have indemnity obligations.. Larger competitors have operational and other advantages over our operations.. The markets for our products are highly competitive, and companies that have substantially greater financial resources compete with us in each market. Some of our competitors have advantages over us, including lower raw material and labor costs and better access to the inputs of our products.. Our consumer products business faces competition from companies that produce the same type of products that we produce or that produce alternative products that customers may use instead of our products. Our consumer products business competes with the branded tissue products producers, such as Procter & Gamble, and branded label producers who manufacture branded and private label products, such as Georgia-Pacific and Kimberly-Clark. These companies are far larger than us, have more sales, marketing and research and development resources than we do, and enjoy significant cost advantages due to economies of scale. In addition, because of their size and resources, these companies may foresee market trends more accurately than we do and develop new technologies that render our products less attractive or obsolete.. Our ability to successfully compete in the pulp and paperboard industry is influenced by a number of factors, including manufacturing capacity, general economic conditions and the availability and demand for paperboard substitutes. Our pulp and paperboard business competes with International Paper, WestRock, Georgia-Pacific, and international producers, most of whom are much larger than us. Any increase in manufacturing capacity by any of these or other producers could result in overcapacity in the pulp and paperboard industry, which could cause downward pressure on pricing. For example, several newer facilities in China have large paperboard manufacturing capacities, the output of which is expected to increase paperboard supplies on the international market. Also, a large European manufacturer has begun paperboard production at a new facility with products intended for the North American market. Furthermore, customers could choose to use types of paperboard that we do not produce or could rely on alternative materials, such as plastic, for their products. An increased supply of any of these products could cause us to lower our prices or lose sales to competitors, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.. The consolidation of paperboard converting businesses, including through the acquisition and integration of such converting business by larger competitors of ours, could result in a loss of customers and sales on the part of our pulp and paperboard business. A loss of paperboard customers or sales as a result of consolidations and integrations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our pension and health care costs are subject to numerous factors that could cause these costs to change.. In addition to our pension plans, we provide health care benefits to certain of our current and former salaried and hourly employees. There is a risk of increased costs due to the Affordable Care Act's individual mandate and required coverage. Our health care costs vary with changes in health care costs generally, which have significantly exceeded general economic inflation rates for many years. Our pension costs are dependent upon numerous factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions about future investment returns. Pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Fluctuations in actual equity market returns as well as changes in general interest rates may result in increased pension costs in future periods. Likewise, changes in assumptions regarding current discount rates, expected rates of return on plan assets and mortality rates could also increase pension costs. Significant changes in any of these factors may adversely impact our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.. We face cyber-security risks.. Our business operations rely upon secure information technology systems for data capture, processing, storage and reporting. Despite careful security and controls design, implementation and updating, our information technology systems could become subject to cyber-attacks. Network, system, application and data breaches could result in operational disruptions or information misappropriation, which could result in lost sales, business delays, negative publicity and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 14. We rely on a limited number of third-party suppliers for certain raw materials required for the production of our products.. Our dependence on a limited number of third-party suppliers, and the challenges we may face in obtaining adequate supplies of raw materials, involve several risks, including limited control over pricing, availability, quality, and delivery schedules. We cannot be certain that our current suppliers will continue to provide us with the quantities of these raw materials that we require or will continue to satisfy our anticipated specifications and quality requirements. Any supply interruption in limited raw materials could materially harm our ability to manufacture our products until a new source of supply, if any, could be identified and qualified. Although we believe there are other suppliers of these raw materials, we may be unable to find a sufficient alternative supply channel in a reasonable time or on commercially reasonable terms. Any performance failure on the part of our suppliers could interrupt production of our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business.. Additional expansion of our business through construction of new facilities or acquisitions may not proceed as anticipated.. In the future, we may build other converting and papermaking facilities, pursue acquisitions of existing facilities, or both. We may be unable to identify future suitable building locations or acquisition targets. In addition, we may be unable to achieve anticipated benefits or cost savings from construction projects or acquisitions in the timeframe we anticipate, or at all. Any inability by us to integrate and manage any new or acquired facilities or businesses in a timely and efficient manner, any inability to achieve anticipated cost savings or other anticipated benefits from these projects or acquisitions in the time frame we anticipate or any unanticipated required increases in promotional or capital spending could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Large construction projects or acquisitions can result in a decrease in our cash and short-term investments, an increase in our indebtedness, or both, and also may limit our ability to access additional capital when needed and divert management's attention from other business concerns.. To service our substantial indebtedness, we must generate significant cash flows. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $730 million of outstanding indebtedness, and we could incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including our outstanding notes, and to fund planned capital expenditures, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a significant extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control.. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior secured revolving credit facilities in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, including our outstanding notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including our senior secured revolving credit facilities and our outstanding notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all.. The indenture for our outstanding notes that we issued in 2013 and the credit agreements governing our senior secured revolving credit facilities, contain various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business.. The indenture governing our outstanding notes that we issued in 2013 and the credit agreements governing our senior secured revolving credit facilities, contain various provisions that limit our discretion in the operation of our business by restricting our ability to:. • undergo a change in control;. • sell assets;. • pay dividends and make other distributions;. • make investments and other restricted payments;. • redeem or repurchase our capital stock;. • incur additional debt and issue preferred stock;. • create liens;. • consolidate, merge, or sell substantially all of our assets;. • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates;. • engage in new lines of business; and. • enter into sale and lease-back transactions.. These restrictions on our ability to operate our business at our discretion could seriously harm our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition and other corporate opportunities, or to borrow in order to fund further capital expenditures. In addition, our senior secured revolving credit facilities. 15. require, among other things, that we maintain a consolidated total leverage ratio in an amount not to exceed 4.50 to 1.00 in 2018, 4.25 to 1.00 in 2019 and 4.00 to 1.00 thereafter (subject to certain exceptions with respect to acquisitions in excess of an agreed threshold amount) and a consolidated interest coverage ratio in an amount not less than 1.75 to 1.00 through 2020 and 2.25 to 1.00 thereafter. Events beyond our control could affect our ability to meet these financial tests, and we cannot assure you that we will meet them.. Our failure to comply with the covenants contained in our senior secured revolving credit facilities or the indentures governing our outstanding notes, including as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default that could cause repayment of the debt to be accelerated.. If we are not able to comply with the covenants and other requirements contained in the indentures governing our outstanding notes, our senior secured revolving credit facilities or our other debt instruments, an event of default under the relevant debt instrument could occur. If an event of default does occur, it could trigger a default under our other debt instruments, prohibit us from accessing additional borrowings, and permit the holders of the defaulted debt to declare amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be immediately due and payable. Our assets and cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments. In addition, we may not be able to refinance or restructure the payments on the applicable debt. Even if we were able to secure additional financing, it may not be available on favorable terms.. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our Board of Directors and may discourage hostile takeover attempts that some of our stockholders may consider to be beneficial.. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if our Board of Directors determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of the company and our stockholders. The provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include, among other things, the following:. • a classified Board of Directors with three-year staggered terms;. • the ability of our Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms, including preferences and voting rights, of those shares without stockholder approval;. • stockholder action can only be taken at a special or regular meeting and not by written consent;. • advance notice procedures for nominating candidates to our Board of Directors or presenting matters at stockholder meetings;. • removal of directors only for cause;. • allowing only our Board of Directors to fill vacancies on our Board of Directors; and. • supermajority voting requirements to amend our bylaws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation.. While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of the company to negotiate with our Board of Directors, they could enable the Board of Directors to hinder or frustrate a transaction that some, or a majority, of the stockholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. We are also subject to Delaware laws that could have similar effects. One of these laws prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with a significant stockholder unless specific conditions are met."
