[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to our Financial Position and Need for Additional Financing. We will require substantial additional financing in order to meet our business objectives.. Since our inception, most of our resources have been dedicated to preclinical and clinical research and development (\"xR&D\") of our product candidates. In particular, we are currently developing several product candidates, each of which will require substantial funds to complete. We believe that we will continue to expend substantial resources for the foreseeable future in the development of these product candidates. These expenditures will include costs associated with preclinical and clinical R&D, obtaining regulatory approvals, product manufacturing, corporate administration, business development, and marketing and selling for approved products. In addition, other unanticipated costs may arise. As of December 31, 2017, our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments amounted to $8.8 million. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities will allow us to fund our operating plan for at least 12 months beyond the filing date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Because the outcome and timing of our planned and anticipated clinical trials is highly uncertain, we cannot reasonably estimate the actual amounts of capital necessary to successfully complete the development and commercialization of our product candidates.  Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including:. • the number and characteristics of the product candidates we pursue;. • the scope, progress, results, and costs of researching and developing our product candidates, and conducting pre-clinical and clinical trials;. • the timing of, and the costs involved in, obtaining regulatory approvals for our product candidates;. • the cost of commercialization activities for any of our product candidates that are approved for sale, including marketing, sales, and distribution costs;. • the cost of manufacturing our product candidates and any products we successfully commercialize;. 17. Table of Contents. • our ability to establish and maintain strategic partnerships, licensing or other arrangements and the financial terms of such agreements;. • the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending, and enforcing patent claims, including litigation costs and the outcome of such litigation;. • the success of the pre-EUA submission we made with the FDA, the success of the MAA  we made with the EMA, and any future submissions in the U.S., E.U., and other countries that we may make; and. • the timing, receipt, and amount of sales of, or royalties on, our future products, if any.. When our available cash and cash equivalents become insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, or if and when we identify additional opportunities to do so, we will likely seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain additional credit facilities. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities may result in additional dilution to our stockholders. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of debt securities or preferred stock or through additional credit facilities, these securities and/or the loans under credit facilities could provide for rights senior to those of our common stockholders and could contain covenants that would restrict our operations. Furthermore, any funds raised through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties may require us to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies or product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. In any such event, our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially, adversely affected.. We may require additional capital beyond our currently forecasted amounts and additional funds may not be available when we need them, on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. In particular, a decline in the market price of our common stock could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate.  If we fail to raise sufficient additional financing, on terms and dates acceptable to us, we may not be able to continue our operations and the development of our product candidates, our patent licenses may be terminated, and we may be required to reduce staff, reduce or eliminate research and development, slow the development of our product candidates, outsource or eliminate several business functions or shut down operations.. We have a history of operating losses. We expect to continue to incur losses and may not continue as a going concern.. We have incurred significant losses to date. We reported net losses of approximately $9.8 million and $2.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We expect significant losses to continue for the next few years as we spend substantial sums on the continued R&D of our proprietary product candidates, and there is no certainty that we will ever become profitable as a result of these expenditures. As a result of losses that will continue throughout our development stage, we may exhaust our financial resources and be unable to complete the development of our product candidates.. Our ability to become profitable depends primarily on the following factors:. • our ability to obtain adequate sources of continued financing;. • our ability to obtain approval for, and if approved, to successfully commercialize our product candidates;. • our ability to successfully enter into license, development or other partnership agreements with third-parties for the development and/or commercialization of one or more of our product candidates;. • our R&D efforts, including the timing and cost of clinical trials; and. • our ability to enter into favorable alliances with third-parties who can provide substantial capabilities in clinical development, manufacturing, regulatory affairs, sales, marketing, and distribution.. Even if we successfully develop and market our product candidates, we may not generate sufficient or sustainable revenue to achieve or sustain profitability.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards may be limited.. As of December 31, 2017, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards (\"NOLs\") of $139.7 million to offset future taxable income, which begin to expire if not utilized by 2023, and approximately $4.0 million of federal tax credit carryforwards which begin to expire if not utilized by 2024. The Company also has U.S. state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $84.2 million, which begin to expire if not utilized by 2027 and state tax credit carryforwards of approximately $0.3 million, which begin to expire if not utilized by 2022.. 18. Table of Contents. The purchase of 6,459,948 shares of common stock by Mr. Davidovich yielded a post-transaction ownership percentage of 60.2% for him. We believe it highly likely that this transaction will be viewed by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service as a change of ownership as defined by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (\"Section 382\"). Consequently, the utilization of these NOL and tax credit carryforwards, as well as any additional NOL and tax credit carryforwards generated in 2015 through the issuance date of July 9, 2015, will be limited according to the provisions of Section 382, which could significantly limit the Company's ability to use these carryforwards to offset taxable income on an annual basis in future periods. As such, a significant portion of these carryforwards could expire before they can be utilized, even if the Company is able to generate taxable income that, except for this transaction, would have been sufficient to fully utilize these carry forwards.. Risks Related to Product Development. We may not be able to successfully and timely develop our products.. Our product candidates range from ones currently in the research stage to ones currently in the clinical stage of development and all require further testing to determine their technical and commercial viability. Our success will depend on our ability to achieve scientific, clinical, and technological advances and to translate such advances into reliable, commercially competitive products in a timely manner. In addition, the success of our subsidiaries will depend on their ability to meet developmental milestones in a timely manner or to fulfill certain other development requirements under contractual agreements, which are prerequisites to their receipt of additional funding from their non-controlling interest holders or the government agency funding their R&D efforts. Products that we may develop are not likely to be commercially available for several years. The proposed development schedules for our products may be affected by a variety of factors, including, among others, technological difficulties, proprietary technology of others, the government approval process, the availability of funds, disagreements with the financial partners in our subsidiaries, and changes in government regulation, many of which will not be within our control. Any delay in the development, introduction or marketing of our products could result either in such products being marketed at a time when their cost and performance characteristics would not be competitive in the marketplace or in the shortening of their commercial lives. In light of the long-term nature of our projects and the unproven technology involved, we may not be able to successfully complete the development or marketing of any products.. We may fail to develop and commercialize some or all of our products successfully or in a timely manner because:. • preclinical or clinical study results may show the product to be less effective than desired (e.g., a study may fail to meet its primary objectives) or to have harmful or problematic side effects;. • we fail to receive the necessary regulatory approvals or there may be a delay in receiving such approvals. Among other things, such delays may be caused by slow enrollment in clinical studies, length of time to achieve study endpoints, additional time requirements for data analysis or pre-EUA, MAA, NDA, or BLA preparation, discussions with the FDA, EMA, and other regulatory agencies, and their request for additional preclinical or clinical data or unexpected safety or manufacturing issues;. • our contract laboratories fail to follow good laboratory practices or sufficient quantities of the drug are not available for clinical studies or commercialization;. • we fail to receive funding necessary for the development of one or more of our products;. • they fail to conform to a changing standard of care for the diseases they seek to treat;. • they are less effective or more expensive than current or alternative treatment methods;. • patients withdraw or die during a clinical trial for a variety of reasons, including adverse events associated with the advanced stage of their disease and medical problems that may or may not be related to our products or product candidates;. • the clinical or animal trial design, although approved, is inadequate to demonstrate safety and/or efficacy;. • the  third-party clinical investigators or contract organizations do not perform our clinical or animal studies on our anticipated schedule or consistent with the study protocol or do not perform data collection and analysis in a timely or accurate manner;. • the economic feasibility of the product is not attainable due to high manufacturing costs, pricing or reimbursement issues, or other factors;. • one or more of our financial partners in our subsidiaries and us do not agree on the development strategy of our products; or. 19. Table of Contents. • proprietary rights of others and their competing products and technologies may prevent our product from being commercialized.. Our collaborative relationships with third parties could cause us to expend significant resources and incur substantial business risk with no assurance of financial return.. We anticipate substantial reliance upon strategic collaborations for marketing and commercialization of our product candidates and we may rely even more on strategic collaborations for R&D of our product candidates. Our business depends on our ability to sell drugs to both government agencies and to the general pharmaceutical market. Offering entolimod for its biodefense indication to government agencies may require us to develop new sales, marketing or distribution capabilities beyond those already existing in the Company and we may not be successful in selling entolimod for its biodefense indication in the U.S. or in foreign countries despite our efforts. Selling oncology drugs will require a more significant infrastructure. We plan to sell oncology drugs through strategic partnerships with pharmaceutical companies. If we are unable to establish or manage such strategic collaborations on terms favorable to us in the future, our revenue and drug development may be limited. To date, we have not entered into any strategic collaboration with a third party capable of providing these services and we can make no guarantee that we will be able to enter into a strategic collaboration in the future. In addition, we have not yet marketed or sold any of our product candidates or entered into successful collaborations for these services in order to ultimately commercialize our product candidates. We also rely on third party collaborations with our manufacturers. Manufacturers producing our product candidates must follow GMP regulations enforced by the FDA and foreign equivalents.. Establishing strategic collaborations is difficult and time-consuming. Our discussion with potential collaborators may not lead to the establishment of collaborations on favorable terms, if at all. Potential collaborators may reject collaborations based upon their assessment of our financial, regulatory, or intellectual property position. Even if we successfully establish new collaborations, these relationships may never result in the successful development or commercialization of our product candidates or the generation of sales revenue. In addition, to the extent that we enter into collaborative arrangements, our drug revenues are likely to be lower than if we directly marketed and sold any drugs that we may develop.. We will not be able to commercialize our product candidates if our preclinical development efforts are not successful, our clinical trials do not demonstrate safety or our clinical trials or pivotal animal studies do not demonstrate efficacy.. Before obtaining required regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any of our product candidates, we must conduct extensive preclinical and clinical studies to demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and clinical or pivotal animal trials to demonstrate that our product candidates are efficacious. And for entolimod's biodefense indication we must demonstrate a logical dosing correlation between animals and humans. These R&D activities are expensive, difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete and are uncertain as to outcome. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials or animal efficacy studies will be successful and interim results of a clinical trial or animal efficacy study do not necessarily predict final results. In addition, we will likely outsource all or part of individual R&D activities and may not successfully or promptly finalize agreements for the conduct of these activities. Consequently, delays in completion of contracted activities may result.. Engagement of contract research organizations (\"CROs\"), study investigators, and other third parties for clinical or animal testing or data management services, for example, transfers substantial responsibilities to these parties.  As such we are dependent on these parties to timely execute their contracted work in a quality manner that complies with relevant standards and regulations such as GLPs.  Failure of these parties to deliver timely and quality services could result in delays in, or termination of, contracted R&D activities. For example, if any of our clinical trial sites fail to comply with GCPs or our pivotal animal studies fail to comply with GLP regulations we may be unable to use the data generated. Consequently, if contracted CROs or other third parties do not properly execute their duties or fail to meet expected deadlines, our research activities may be extended, delayed or terminated, and we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our product candidates.. Our pivotal nonclinical and clinical trial operations are subject to regulatory inspections at any time. If regulatory inspectors conclude that we or our trial sites are not in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements for conducting such trials, we or they may receive warning letters or other correspondence detailing deficiencies and we will be required to implement corrective actions. If regulatory agencies deem our responses to be inadequate, or are dissatisfied with the corrective actions that we or our clinical trial sites have implemented, our clinical trials may be temporarily or permanently discontinued, we may be fined, we or our investigators may be the subject of an enforcement action, the government may refuse to approve our marketing applications or allow us to manufacture or market our products or we may be criminally prosecuted.. In addition, a failure of one or more of our clinical trials or animal studies can occur at any stage of testing and such failure could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue and could require us to reduce the scope of or discontinue our. 20. Table of Contents. operations. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, preclinical testing and the clinical trial or animal study process that could delay or prevent our ability to receive regulatory approval or commercialize our product candidates, including:. • regulators or IRBs may not authorize us to commence a clinical trial, conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site or continue a clinical trial following amendment of a clinical trial protocol or an IACUC may not authorize us to commence an animal study at a prospective study site;. • we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional preclinical or clinical studies, or we may abandon projects that we expect to be promising, if our preclinical tests, clinical trials or animal efficacy studies produce negative or inconclusive results;. • we may have to suspend or terminate our clinical trials if the participants are being exposed to unacceptable safety risks;. • regulators or IRBs may require that we hold, suspend or terminate clinical development for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements or if it is believed that the clinical trials present an unacceptable safety risk to the patients enrolled in our clinical trials;. • the cost of our clinical trials or animal studies could escalate and become cost prohibitive;. • any regulatory approval we ultimately obtain may be limited or subject to restrictions or post-approval commitments that render the product not commercially viable;. • we may not be successful in recruiting a sufficient number of qualifying subjects for our clinical trials or certain animals used in our animal studies or facilities conducting our studies may not be available at the time that we plan to initiate a study;. • the effects of our product candidates may not be the desired effects, may include undesirable side effects, or the product candidates may have other unexpected characteristics; and. • our collaborators that conduct our clinical or pivotal animal studies could go out of business and not be available for FDA inspection when we submit our product for approval.. Even if we or our collaborators complete our animal studies and clinical trials and receive regulatory approval, it is possible that a product may be found to be ineffective or unsafe due to conditions or facts that arise after development has been completed and regulatory approvals have been obtained. In this event, we may be required to withdraw such product from the market. To the extent that our success will depend on any regulatory approvals from government authorities outside of the U.S. that perform roles similar to that of the FDA, uncertainties similar to those stated above will also exist.. Panacela has a significant non-controlling interest holder and, as such, may not be operated solely for our benefit.. As of December 31, 2017, we owned 67.57% of the equity interests in Panacela. Rusnano, a fund regulated by the Russian government, is a significant shareholder along with other minority shareholders.  As such, we share ownership and management of Panacela with other parties who may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do.. Both we and Rusnano have certain rights, including the right to designate board members and the need for either supermajority votes or consent of all members of Panacela's board of directors in order to take certain actions. Additionally, the right to transfer ownership is restricted by rights of first refusal, tag along and drag along rights. Consequently, if a co-owner sells their equity interest to a new party, the new party may adversely affect the operation of Panacela. These restrictions lead to organizational formalities that may be time-consuming. In addition, the benefits from a successful product development effort are shared among the co-owners.. If parties on whom we rely to manufacture our product candidates do not manufacture them in satisfactory quality, in a timely manner, in sufficient quantities, or at an acceptable cost, clinical development and commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed.. We do not own or operate manufacturing facilities. Consequently, we rely on third parties as sole suppliers of our product candidates. We do not expect to establish our own manufacturing facilities and we will continue to rely on third-party manufacturers to produce supplies for preclinical, clinical, and pivotal animal studies and for commercial quantities of any products or product candidates that we market or may supply to our collaborators. We also rely on third parties as sole providers of certain testing of our products. Our dependence on third parties for the manufacture and testing of our product candidates may adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize any product candidates on a timely and competitive basis.. 21. Table of Contents. To date, our product candidates have only been manufactured in quantities sufficient for preclinical studies and initial clinical trials. We rely on a single contract organization, SynCo Bio Partners B.V.,  for production of each of our product candidates. For a variety of reasons, dependence on any single manufacturer may adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates in a timely and competitive manner. In addition, our current contractual arrangements alone may not be sufficient to guarantee that we will be able to procure the needed supplies as we complete clinical development and/or enter commercialization.. Additionally, in connection with our application for commercial approvals and if any product candidate is approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies for commercial sale, we will need to procure commercial quantities of the product candidate from qualified third-party manufacturers. We may not be able to contract for increased manufacturing capacity for any of our product candidates in a timely or economic manner or at all. A significant scale-up in manufacturing may require additional validation studies and commensurate financial investments by the contract manufacturers. If we are unable to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for a product candidate, the regulatory approval or commercial launch of that product candidate may be delayed or there may be a shortage of supply, which could limit our sales and could initiate regulatory intervention to minimize public health risk.. Other risks associated with our reliance on contract manufacturers include the following:. • contract manufacturers may encounter difficulties in achieving volume production, quality control, and quality assurance and also may experience shortages in qualified personnel and obtaining active ingredients for our product candidates;. • if, for any circumstance, we are required to change manufacturers, we could be faced with significant monetary and lost opportunity costs with switching manufacturers. Furthermore, such change may take a significant amount of time. The FDA and foreign regulatory agencies must approve these manufacturers in advance. This requires prior approval of regulatory submissions as well as successful completion of pre-approval inspections to ensure compliance with FDA and foreign regulations and standards;. • contract manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic, unannounced inspection by the FDA and state and foreign agencies or their designees to ensure strict compliance with GMPs and other governmental regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We do not have control over compliance by our contract manufacturers with these regulations and standards. Our contract manufacturers may not be able to comply with GMPs and other FDA requirements or other regulatory requirements outside the U.S. Failure of contract manufacturers to comply with applicable regulations could result in delays, suspensions or withdrawal of approvals, seizures or recalls of product candidates and operating restrictions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business;. • contract manufacturers might not be able or refuse to fulfill our commercial or clinical trial needs, which would require us to seek new manufacturing arrangements and may result in substantial delays in meeting market or clinical trial demands. For example, our current agreement with SynCo Bio Partners B.V. (\"Synco\") does not impose any obligation on Synco to reserve a minimum annual capacity for the production of entolimod, which could impair our ability to obtain product from them in a timely fashion;. • our product costs may increase if our manufacturers pass their increasing costs of manufacture on to us;. • if our contract manufacturers do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we will not be able to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals for our products and product candidates and will not be able to successfully commercialize our products and product candidates. In such event, we may not be able to locate any necessary acceptable replacement manufacturers or enter into favorable agreements with such replacement manufacturers in a timely manner, if at all; and. • contract manufacturers may breach the manufacturing agreements that we have with them because of factors beyond our control or may terminate or fail to renew a manufacturing agreement based on their own business priorities at a time that is costly or inconvenient to us.. Changes to the manufacturing process during the conduct of clinical trials or after marketing approval also require regulatory submissions and the demonstration to the FDA or other regulatory authorities that the product manufactured under the new conditions complies with GMPs requirements. These requirements especially apply to moving manufacturing functions to another facility. In each phase of investigation, sufficient information about changes in the manufacturing process must be submitted to. 22. Table of Contents. the regulatory authorities and may require prior approval before implementation with the potential of substantial delay or the inability to implement the requested changes.. Risks Relating to Regulatory Approval. We may not be able to obtain regulatory approval in a timely manner or at all and the results of future clinical trials and pivotal efficacy studies may not be favorable.. The testing, marketing and manufacturing of any product for use in the U.S. and the E.U. will require approval from the FDA and the EMA, respectively. We cannot predict with any certainty the amount of time necessary to obtain FDA approval and whether any such approval will ultimately be granted. Obtaining approval for products requires manufacturing the product and testing in animals and human subjects of substances whose effects on humans are not fully understood or documented. The manufacturing processes for our product candidates are not yet fully developed and identifying a reproducible process may prove difficult. Additionally, preclinical studies, animal efficacy studies, or clinical trials may reveal that one or more products are ineffective or unsafe, in which event, further development of such products could be seriously delayed, terminated or rendered more expensive.. In addition, we expect to rely on the FDA Animal Rule to obtain approval for entolimod's biodefense indication in the U.S. The Animal Rule permits the use of animal efficacy studies together with human clinical safety trials to support an application for marketing approval of products when human efficacy studies are neither ethical nor feasible. These regulations have limited prior use and we have limited experience in the application of these rules to the product candidates that we are developing. Additionally, we submitted an application with the FDA for pre-EUA in 2015, so that entolimod may be used in an emergency situation. We cannot guarantee that the FDA will review the data submitted in a timely manner, or that the FDA will accept the data when reviewed. The FDA may decide that our data are insufficient for pre-EUA or BLA approval and require additional preclinical, clinical, or other studies, refuse to approve our products, or place restrictions on our ability to commercialize those products. If we are not successful in completing the development, licensure, and commercialization of entolimod for its biodefense indication, or if we are significantly delayed in doing so, our business will be materially harmed.. Delays in obtaining FDA, EMA, or any other necessary regulatory approvals of any proposed product or the failure to receive such approvals would have an adverse effect on our ability to develop such product, the product's potential commercial success and/or on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in international jurisdictions could prevent us from marketing our products abroad.. We intend to market our product candidates, including specifically the product candidates being developed by our Russian subsidiaries, in the U.S., Europe,  Russia, and other countries and regulatory jurisdictions. In order to market our product candidates in the U.S., Europe, Russia, and other jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals in each of these countries and territories. The procedures and requirements for obtaining marketing approval vary among countries and regulatory jurisdictions and may involve additional clinical trials or other tests. In addition, we do not have in-house experience and expertise regarding the procedures and requirements to file for and obtain marketing approval for drugs in countries outside of the U.S., Europe, and Japan and may need to engage and rely upon expertise of third parties when we file for marketing approval in countries outside of the U.S., Europe, and Japan. Also, the time required to obtain approval in markets outside of the U.S. may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval, while still including all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. We may not be able to obtain all of the desirable or necessary regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by a regulatory authority in a particular country or regulatory jurisdiction, such as the FDA in the U.S. or the EMA in the E.U., does not ensure approval by a regulatory authority in another country.. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our product candidates in any or all of the countries or regulatory jurisdictions in which we desire to market our product candidates. At this time, other countries do not have an equivalent to the Animal Rule and, as a result, such countries do not have established criteria for review and approval for this type of product outside their normal review process. Specifically, because such other countries do not have an equivalent to the Animal Rule, we may not be able to file for or receive regulatory approvals for entolimod's biodefense indication outside the U.S. based on our animal efficacy and human safety data.. The Fast Track designation for entolimod may not actually lead to a faster development or regulatory review or approval process.. We have obtained a \"Fast Track\" designation from the FDA for entolimod's biodefense indication. However, we may not experience a faster development process, review, or approval compared to conventional FDA procedures. The FDA may withdraw our Fast Track designation if the FDA believes that the designation is no longer supported by data from our clinical or pivotal development program. Our Fast Track designation does not guarantee that we will qualify for or be able to take advantage of the FDA's expedited. 23. Table of Contents. review procedures or that any application that we may submit to the FDA for regulatory approval will be accepted for filing or ultimately approved.. The pre-EUA submission we made to the FDA in 2015 may not be successful and, even if such submission is successful, it may not accelerate BLA approval of entolimod or result in any purchase by the U.S. government for this product.. In July 2014, we met with the FDA regarding human dose-conversion of entolimod and based on the results of that meeting, we submitted a pre-EUA dossier in the second quarter of 2015 in order to inform and expedite the FDA's issuance of an EUA, should one become necessary in the event of an emergency. The FDA does not have review deadlines with respect to pre-EUA submissions and, therefore, the timing of any approval of a pre-EUA submission is uncertain.. The FDA may decide not to accept the data or may decide that our data are insufficient for pre-EUA. The FDA may require additional Chemistry, Manufacturing, and Controls (\"CMC\"), preclinical, clinical or other studies, refuse to approve our products, or place restrictions on our ability to commercialize those products. For example, in 2016, the FDA asked the Company to establish the comparability of an older formulation of entolimod that had been used for preclinical and clinical studies and a newer to-be-marked formulation. The FDA requested that we perform a side-by-side analytical comparability study and then an in vivo study in NHP to establish bio-comparability between the two entolimod drug formulations. The FDA indicated that further review of the pre-EUA dossier would not proceed until these bio-comparability data have been evaluated by the Agency. There can be no guarantee that we will reach a satisfactory agreement in a timely manner, or at all, or that the FDA will not request any additional information related to our preclinical, clinical or manufacturing programs. Additionally, an authorization of our pre-EUA submission will not guarantee, and may not accelerate, BLA approval of entolimod as a radiation countermeasure.. Further, even if our pre-EUA submission is authorized, there is no guarantee that such authorization will lead to procurement by the U.S. or other governments or any additional development funding as it is possible that the U.S. or other government may not be interested in our product or our proposed terms of sale for any number of reasons including, but not limited to, lack of available funding, potential lack of government co-sponsorship of our pre-EUA, perceptions about the safety and effectiveness of entolimod, the storage requirements for entolimod or one of our competitors receiving pre-EUA authorization for their product. If we are not successful in partnering entolimod or completing the development, licensure and commercialization of entolimod for its biodefense indication use, or if we are significantly delayed in doing so, our business may be materially harmed.. The MAA we made to the EMA in 2017 may not be successful and, even if approved, it may not result in any purchase by any governments in the E.U. for this product.. In 2017, we submitted a MAA to the EMA for use of entolimod as a medical radiation countermeasure in the European Union. The associated pediatric investigational plan passed its compliance check and our application was validated by the EMA. The MAA is now undergoing agency review and there can be no assurance that approval will be granted in a timely manner or at all. The EMA may decide not to accept the data. The EMA may require additional CMC, preclinical, clinical or other studies, refuse to approve our products, or place restrictions on our ability to commercialize those products. Further, even if our MAA is approved, there is no guarantee that such approval will lead to procurement by any governments in the E.U. or any additional development funding as it is possible that E.U. governments may not be interested in our product or our proposed terms of sale for any number of reasons including, but not limited to, lack of available funding, potential lack of government co-sponsorship of our MAA, perceptions about the safety and effectiveness of entolimod, the storage requirements for entolimod or one of our competitors also having its MAA approved for its product. If we are not successful in partnering entolimod or completing the development, licensure, and commercialization of entolimod for its biodefense indication use, or if we are significantly delayed in doing so, our business may be materially harmed.. Even if our drug candidates obtain regulatory approval, we will be subject to ongoing government regulation.. Even if our drug candidates obtain regulatory approval, our products will be subject to continuing regulation by international health authorities, including record-keeping requirements, submitting periodic reports, reporting of any adverse experiences with the product and complying with Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies and drug sampling and distribution requirements. In addition, updated safety and efficacy information must be maintained and provided to the authorities. We or our collaborative partners, if any, must comply with requirements concerning advertising and promotional labeling, including the prohibition against promoting non-approved or \"off-label\" indications or products. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in significant enforcement action by the international health authorities, including warning letters, orders to pull the promotional materials and substantial fines.. After the approval of a product, the discovery of problems with a product or its class, or the failure to comply with requirements may result in restrictions on a product, manufacturer or holder of an approved marketing application. These include withdrawal or recall of the product from the market or other voluntary or regulatory agency-initiated action that could delay or prevent further. 24. Table of Contents. marketing. Newly discovered or developed safety or effectiveness data, including from other products in a therapeutic class, may require changes to a product's approved labeling, including the addition of new warnings and contraindications. Also, the FDA and other international health authorities are likely to require post-market clinical testing of products approved under the Animal Rule or similar regulations at the time of a declared emergency and may require post-market clinical testing of other products. They may also require surveillance to monitor the product's safety or efficacy to evaluate long-term effects. It is also possible that rare but serious adverse events not seen in our drug candidates may be identified after marketing approval. This could result in withdrawal of our product from the market.. Compliance with post-marketing regulations may be time-consuming and costly and could delay or prevent us from generating revenue from the commercialization of our drug candidates.. If physicians and patients do not accept and use our drugs, we will not achieve sufficient product revenues and our business will suffer.. Even if we gain marketing approval of our drug candidates, government purchasers, physicians and/or patients may not accept and use them. Acceptance and use of these products may depend on a number of factors including:. • perceptions by members of the government healthcare community, including physicians, about the safety and effectiveness of our drugs;. • published studies demonstrating the safety and effectiveness of our drugs;. • adequate reimbursement for our products from payors; and. • effectiveness of marketing and distribution efforts by us and our licensees and distributors, if any.. The failure of our drugs, if approved for marketing, to gain acceptance in the market would harm our business and could require us to seek additional financing.. Risks Related to our Dependence on U.S. and Foreign Government Contracts and Grants. If we are unable to procure additional government funding, we may not be able to fund future R&D and implement technological improvements, which would materially harm our financial conditions and operating results.. In September 2015, we announced the grant of two awards from DoD, totaling approximately $15.8 million for advanced development of entolimod as a medical radiation countermeasure. In October 2016, we further announced that DoD modified the original statement of work for the JWMRP contract by eliminating certain tasks no longer deemed critical for the preparation of the BLA and established new tasks to address the formulation questions raised by the FDA during the review of the pre-EUA dossier such that the aggregate amount payable to CBLI was unaffected. In September 2017, the DoD further modified the contract by extending its term to 2019 on a no-cost basis. These awards will be earned as the contracted development work is performed over a three to five year period.  For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, we received 69.0%, and 35.4%  of our revenues from the U.S. government; and, 0.0%, and 46.9% of our revenues from the Russian government, respectively.. These revenues have funded some of our operating costs and expenses and the two above-referenced DoD awards are expected to similarly fund some of our operating costs and expenses in the future. However, we will continue to incur substantial additional costs to fund our operations for which we may apply for other sources of government funding. If we do submit proposals for new grants or contracts, the review of such proposals and ultimate funding of an award may take significant time. Contract and grant awards are subject to a significant amount of uncertainty, including, but not limited to, successful negotiation and availability of funds. In addition, in our experience, contracts from Russian government entities require matching funds and posting of performance guarantees. Therefore, we expect that our acceptance of new contracts or grants from Russian government entities will also be subject to our ability to provide matching funds and to post performance guarantees.. If we are unable to obtain sufficient grants and contracts on a timely basis or if our current grants or contracts are terminated, our ability to fund future operations would be diminished, which would negatively impact our ability to compete in our industry and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. Our future business may be harmed as a result of the foreign and U.S. government contracting process as it involves risks not present in the commercial marketplace.. We expect that a significant portion of the business that we will seek in the near future will be under government contracts or subcontracts, both U.S. and foreign, which may be awarded through competitive bidding. For example, as described above, we recently received funding from DoD to support further development of entolimod. Additionally, in Russia we may seek additional. 25. Table of Contents. funding from the Skolkovo Foundation or MPT. Competitive bidding for government contracts presents a number of risks that are not typically present in the commercial contracting process, which may include:. • the need to devote substantial time and attention of management and key employees to the preparation of bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us;. • the need to accurately estimate the resources and cost structure that will be required to perform any contract that we might be awarded;. • the risk that the government will issue a request for proposal to which we would not be eligible to respond;. • the risk that third parties may submit protests to our responses to requests for proposal that could result in delays or withdrawals of those requests for proposal;. • the expenses that we might incur and the delays that we might suffer if our competitors protest or challenge contract awards made to us pursuant to competitive bidding and the risk that any such protest or challenge could result in the resubmission of bids based on modified specifications, or in termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract; and. • the risk that review of our proposal or award of a contract or an option to an existing contract could be significantly delayed for reasons including, but not limited to, the need for us to resubmit our proposal or limitations on available funds due to government budget cuts.. The U.S. government may choose to award future contracts for the supply of medical radiation countermeasures to our competitors instead of to us. If we are unable to win particular contracts, or if the government chooses not to fully exercise all options under contracts awarded to us, we may not be able to operate in the market for products that are provided under those contracts for a number of years. If we are unable to consistently win new contract awards, or if we fail to anticipate all of the costs and resources that will be required to secure such contract awards, our growth strategy and our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected.. Additionally, government authorities have a high degree of discretion in Russia and have at times exercised their discretion selectively or arbitrarily, without hearing or prior notice, and sometimes in a manner that is perceived to be influenced, or may be influenced, by political or commercial considerations. The government also has the power, in certain circumstances, to interfere with the performance of, nullify or terminate contracts.. The market for U.S. and other government funding is highly competitive.. We periodically submit applications for funding of various research studies of our product candidates to the U.S. and other governments. There is no guarantee that any proposals that we plan to submit will be funded even if we receive positive reviews of such proposals as funding by the government is highly competitive and limited to the availability of funds. Failure to receive funding from U.S. and other government sources for the development of our product candidates could impair our ability to fund the development programs for our product candidates and thus could result in delays in development, or even stopping of development, of certain indications for our product candidates.. Notably, our biodefense product candidate, entolimod, faces significant competition for U.S. government funding for both development and procurement of medical countermeasures for biological, chemical and nuclear threats, diagnostic testing systems and other emergency preparedness countermeasures. In addition, we may not be able to compete effectively if entolimod does not satisfy procurement requirements of the U.S. government with respect to biodefense products. Our opportunities to succeed in the biodefense industry could be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize products that are safer, more effective, have fewer side effects, are more convenient or are less expensive than any products that we may develop.. U.S. government agencies have special contracting requirements, which create additional risks.. We have historically entered into contracts with various U.S. government agencies. Due to these contracts with government agencies, we are subject to various federal contract requirements. Future sales to U.S. government agencies will depend, in part, on our ability to meet these requirements, certain of which we may not be able to satisfy.. U.S. government contracts typically contain unfavorable termination provisions and are subject to audit by the government at its sole discretion even after the end of the period of performance under the contract, which subjects us to additional risks. These risks include the ability of the U.S. government to unilaterally:. 26. Table of Contents. • suspend or prevent us for a set period of time from receiving new contracts or extending existing contracts based on violations or suspected violations of laws or regulations;. • terminate our existing contracts;. • reduce the scope and value of our existing contracts;. • audit and object to our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs;. • control and potentially prohibit the export of our products; and. • change certain terms and conditions in our contracts.. Pursuant to our government contracts, we are generally permitted to retain title to any patentable invention or discovery made while performing the contract. However, the U.S. government is generally entitled to receive a non-exclusive, non-transferable, irrevocable, paid-up license to the subject inventions throughout the world. In addition, our government contracts generally provide that the U.S. government retains unlimited rights in the technical data produced under such government contract.. Our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the U.S. government.. As a U.S. government contractor, we may become subject to periodic audits and reviews by U.S. government agencies such as the Defense Contract Audit Agency (\"DCAA\"). These agencies review a contractor's performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. The DCAA also reviews the adequacy of, and a contractor's compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor's accounting, purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed and, such costs already reimbursed must be refunded.. Based on the results of these audits, the U.S. government may adjust our contract-related costs and fees, which have already been paid to us, including allocated indirect costs. In addition, if an audit or review uncovers any improper or illegal activity, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of our contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government. We could also suffer serious harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety were made against us. In addition, under U.S. government purchasing regulations, some of our costs, including most financing costs, amortization of intangible assets, portions of our R&D costs, and some marketing expenses, may not be reimbursable or allowed under our contracts. Further, as a U.S. government contractor, we may become subject to an increased risk of investigations, criminal prosecution, civil fraud, whistleblower lawsuits, and other legal actions and liabilities to which purely private sector companies are not.. Risks Relating to our Intellectual Property. We rely upon licensed patents to protect our technology. We may be unable to obtain or protect such intellectual property rights and we may be liable for infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others.. Our ability to compete effectively will depend on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies and the proprietary technology of others with which we have entered into licensing agreements. We have entered into five separate exclusive license agreements to license from third parties our product candidates that are not owned by us and some product candidates are covered by up to three separate license agreements. Pursuant to these license agreements we maintain patents and patent applications covering our product candidates. We do not know whether any of these patent applications that are still in the approval process will ultimately result in the issuance of a patent with respect to the technology owned by us or licensed to us. The patent position of pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, including ours, is generally uncertain and involves complex legal and factual considerations. The standards that the United States Patent and Trademark Office use to grant patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and can change. There is also no uniform, worldwide policy regarding the subject matter and scope of claims granted or allowable in pharmaceutical or biotechnology patents. Accordingly, we do not know the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights or the breadth of claims that will be allowed in any patents issued to us or to others.. Our technology may be found in the future to infringe upon the rights of others or be infringed upon by others. In such a case, others may assert infringement claims against us, and should we be found to infringe upon their patents, or otherwise impermissibly utilize their intellectual property, we might be forced to pay damages, potentially including treble damages, if we are found to have willfully infringed on such parties' patent rights. Furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief which could effectively block our ability to further develop, commercialize and sell products. In addition to any damages we might have to pay, we may be required to obtain licenses from the holders of this intellectual property, enter into royalty agreements, or redesign our products so as not to utilize this intellectual property, each of which may prove to be uneconomical or otherwise impossible. Conversely, we may not always be able to successfully pursue our claims against others. 27. Table of Contents. that infringe upon our technology and the technology exclusively licensed by us or developed with our collaborative partners. Thus, the proprietary nature of our technology or technology licensed by us may not provide adequate protection against competitors.. Moreover, the cost to us of any litigation or other proceeding relating to our patents and other intellectual property rights, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial and the litigation would divert our management's efforts and our resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could limit our ability to continue our operations.. If we fail to comply with our obligations under our license agreement with third parties, we could lose our ability to develop our product candidates.. The manufacture and sale of any products developed by us may involve the use of processes, products or information, the rights to certain of which are owned by others. Although we have obtained exclusive licenses for our product candidates from The Cleveland Clinic and RPCI with regard to the use of patent applications as described above and certain processes, products and information of others, these licenses could be terminated or expire during critical periods and we may not be able to obtain licenses for other rights that may be important to us, or, if obtained, such licenses may not be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. Furthermore, some of our product candidates require the use of technology licensed from multiple third parties, each of which is necessary for the development of such product candidates. If we are unable to maintain and/or obtain licenses, we may have to develop alternatives to avoid infringing upon the patents of others, potentially causing increased costs and delays in product development and introduction or precluding the development, manufacture, or sale of planned products. Additionally, the patents underlying any licenses may not be valid and enforceable. To the extent any products developed by us are based on licensed technology, royalty payments on the licenses will reduce our gross profit from such product sales and may render the sales of such products uneconomical.. Our current exclusive licenses impose various development, royalty, diligence, record keeping, insurance, solvency and other obligations on us. If we breach any of these obligations and do not cure such breaches within the relevant cure period, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license, which could result in us being unable to develop, manufacture and sell products that are covered by the licensed technology or enable a competitor to gain access to the licensed technology.. In addition, while we cannot currently determine the dollar amount of the royalty and other payments we will be required to make in the future under the license agreements, if any, the amounts may be significant. The dollar amount of our future payment obligations will depend on the technology and intellectual property we use in products that we successfully develop and commercialize, if any.. If we are not able to protect and control our unpatented trade secrets, know-how and other technology, we may suffer competitive harm.. We also rely on a combination of trade secrets, know-how, technology and nondisclosure and other contractual agreements and technical measures to protect our rights in the technology. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect and we rely on third parties to develop our products and thus must share trade secrets with them. We seek to protect our proprietary technology in part by entering into confidentiality agreements and, if applicable, material transfer agreements, collaborative research agreements, consulting agreements or other similar agreements with our collaborators, advisors, employees, and consultants prior to beginning research or disclosing proprietary information. These agreements will typically restrict the ability of our collaborators, advisors, employees, and consultants to publish data potentially relating to our trade secrets. Our academic collaborators typically have rights to publish data, provided that we are notified in advance and may delay publication for a specified time in order to secure our intellectual property rights arising from the collaboration. Despite our efforts to protect our trade secrets, our competitors may discover our trade secrets, either through breach of these agreements, independent development or publication of information including our trade secrets in cases where we do not have proprietary or otherwise protected rights at the time of publication. If any trade secret, know-how or other technology not protected by a patent or intellectual property right were disclosed to, or independently developed by, a competitor, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Risks Relating to our Industry and Other External Factors. The biopharmaceutical market in which we compete is highly competitive.. The biopharmaceutical industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological change. Our success will depend on our ability to develop and apply our technologies in the design and development of our product candidates and to establish and maintain a market for our product candidates. In addition, there are many companies, both public and private, including major pharmaceutical and chemical companies, specialized biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions engaged in developing. 28. Table of Contents. pharmaceutical and biotechnology products. Many of these companies have substantially greater financial, technical, research and development resources, and human resources than us. Competitors may develop products or other technologies that are more effective than those that are being developed by us or may obtain FDA or other governmental approvals for products more rapidly than us. If we commence commercial sales of products, we still must compete in the manufacturing and marketing of such products, areas in which we have no experience.. Our growth could be limited if we are unable to attract and retain key personnel and consultants.. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to identify, hire, integrate, retain, and motivate qualified executive officers and other key employees throughout all areas of our business.  We greatly depend on the efforts of our executive officers to manage our operations. In addition, we utilize highly skilled personnel in operating and supporting our business, as we have limited experience in filing and prosecuting regulatory applications to obtain marketing approval from the FDA or other regulatory authorities. The loss of services of one or more members of our management, key employees or consultants could have a negative impact on our business or our ability to expand our research, development and clinical programs. Furthermore, we may be unable to attract and retain additional qualified executive officers and key employees as needed in the future. We currently do not maintain directors and officers liability insurance, which may make it more difficult for us to retain and attract talented and skilled directors and officers to serve our Company.. Additionally, we depend on our scientific, manufacturing, regulatory clinical collaborators and advisors, all of whom have outside commitments that may limit their availability to us. Furthermore, to the extent that we are unable to engage certain collaborators or advisors for certain periods of time due to lack of relevant work or lack of available funds, there is a risk that such collaborators or advisors will not be available to provide services in the future at such time when there is available work and/or funds. In addition, we believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled scientific, managerial and marketing personnel, particularly as we expand our activities in clinical trials, the regulatory approval process, external partner solicitations and sales and manufacturing. We routinely enter into consulting agreements with our scientific, manufacturing, business development, regulatory, clinical collaborators, advisors, and opinion leaders in the ordinary course of our business. We also enter into contractual agreements with physicians and institutions who recruit patients into our clinical trials on our behalf in the ordinary course of our business. We face significant competition for this type of personnel and for employees from other companies, research and academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. We cannot predict our success in hiring or retaining the personnel we require for continued growth.. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we, our employees or our consultants have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers.. We engage as employees and consultants individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including at competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may become subject to claims that we or our employees have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and distract management.. We may incur substantial liabilities from any product liability and other claims if our insurance coverage for those claims is inadequate.. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our product candidates in human clinical trials and will face an even greater risk if the product candidates are sold commercially. An individual may bring a product liability claim against us if one of the product candidates causes, or merely appears to have caused, an injury. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against the product liability claim, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in:. • decreased demand for our product candidates;. • injury to our reputation;. • withdrawal of clinical trial participants;. • costs of related litigation;. • diversion of our management's time and attention;. • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants;. • loss of revenues;. 29. Table of Contents. • the inability to commercialize product candidates; and. • increased difficulty in raising required additional funds in the private and public capital markets.. We currently have product liability insurance and intend to expand such coverage from coverage for clinical trials to include the sale of commercial products if marketing approval is obtained for any of our product candidates. However, insurance coverage is increasingly expensive. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise.. From time to time, we may also become subject to litigation, such as stockholder derivative claims or securities fraud claims, which could involve our directors and officers as defendants. We currently do not have director and officer insurance to cover such risk exposure for our directors and officers. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws require us to indemnify our current and past directors and officers from reasonable expenses related to the defense of any action arising from their service to us to the fullest extent permitted by the Delaware General Corporation Law, including circumstances under which indemnification is otherwise discretionary. We would be obligated to cover all such expenses for all directors and officers, which may be substantial. Such expenditure could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation, financial condition and liquidity.. Our former laboratories used, and our subtenants use, certain chemical and biological agents and compounds that may be deemed hazardous and we are subject to various safety and environmental laws and regulations. Our compliance with these laws and regulations may result in significant costs, which could materially reduce our ability to become profitable.. Until late 2013, we operated laboratories that used hazardous materials, including chemicals and biological agents and compounds that could be dangerous to human health and safety or the environment and we currently sublease these laboratories for operation by other companies, which currently use hazardous materials. As appropriate, we stored these materials and wastes resulting from their use at our laboratory facility pending their ultimate use or disposal and we currently require that our laboratory sub-lessors do the same. We contracted with a third party to properly dispose of these materials and wastes and our laboratory sub-lessors now manage such contracts. We were and continue to be subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and wastes. We may incur significant costs if we unknowingly failed to comply with environmental laws and regulations.. We rely significantly on information technology and any failure, inadequacy, interruption or security lapse of that technology, including any cybersecurity incidents, could harm our ability to operate our business effectively.. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems and those of third parties with which we contract are vulnerable to damage from cyber-attacks, computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. System failures, accidents or security breaches could cause interruptions in our operations, and could result in a material disruption of our product development and clinical activities and business operations, in addition to possibly requiring substantial expenditures of resources to remedy. The loss of product development or clinical trial data could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. To the extent that any disruption or security breach were to result in a loss of, or damage to, our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur liability and our development programs and the development of our product candidates could be delayed.. Political or social factors may delay or impair our ability to market our products.. Entolimod is being developed to treat ARS, which is a disease that may be caused by terrorist acts. The political and social responses to terrorism have been highly charged and unpredictable. Political or social pressures may delay or cause resistance to bringing our products to market or limit pricing of our products, which would harm our business. Changes to favorable laws, such as the Project BioShield Act, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue and could require us to reduce the scope of or discontinue our operations.. We announced in September 2015 that we received two awards from the DoD for the further development of entolimod. We hope to receive additional funding in the future from U.S. or foreign government agencies for the development of entolimod and our products. Changes in government budgets and agendas, however, have previously resulted in termination of our contract negotiations and may, in the future, result in future funding being decreased and de-prioritized. In addition, government contracts contain provisions that permit cancellation in the event that funds are unavailable to the government agency. Furthermore, we cannot be certain of the timing of any future funding and substantial delays or cancellations of funding could result from protests or challenges from third parties. If the U.S. government fails to continue to adequately fund R&D programs, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenues to continue development of entolimod or continue our other operations. Similarly, if our pre-EUA. 30. Table of Contents. submission for entolimod is authorized by the FDA, but the U.S. government does not place sufficient orders for this product, our future business may be harmed.. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar foreign laws could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences.. We are required to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\"), which prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions. Furthermore, foreign jurisdictions in which we operate may have laws that are similar to the FCPA to which we are or may become subject. This may place us at a significant competitive disadvantage. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft, and other fraudulent practices may occur from time to time in the foreign markets where we conduct business. Although we inform our personnel that such practices are illegal, we can make no assurance that our employees or other agents will not engage in illegal conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The FCPA also obligates companies whose securities are listed in the U.S. to comply with certain accounting provisions requiring the Company to maintain books and records that accurately and fairly reflect all transactions of the corporation, including international subsidiaries and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls for international operations.. Compliance with the FCPA and similar foreign anti-bribery laws is expensive and difficult, particularly in countries in which corruption is a recognized problem. In addition, such anti-bribery laws present particular challenges in the biotech or pharmaceutical industry, because, in many countries, hospitals are operated by the government and doctors and other hospital employees may be considered foreign officials.. Risks Related to Conducting Business in Russia. Political, economic and governmental instability in Russia could materially adversely affect our operations and financial results.. BioLab 612 and Panacela Labs, LLC, which is the wholly-owned subsidiary of Panacela, conduct business, including clinical trials, in Russia through Russian legal entities.  Also, Rusnano is a Russian joint-stock company created as a private equity and venture capital vehicle by the government of Russia.  BioLab 612 owns the Russian intellectual property rights for entolimod's medical applications and CBLB612. Panacela Labs, LLC owns the worldwide rights to Mobilan. Rusnano has certain shareholder rights which could block our ability to execute strategic transactions such as an asset sale or licensing arrangement.  All clinical development activity conducted by these Russian entities was funded by grants from MPT.  As such, any political, economic, or governmental instability in Russia could impact future funding, if any, by MPT, our access to trial data and our access to intellectual property for out-licensing purposes.. In addition to geopolitical events, other factors, including the steady fall in oil prices, the global strengthening of the U.S. dollar and the Russian Central Bank's reduction of currency rate support, have negatively affected the value of the Russian ruble relative to the U.S. dollar. Fluctuations in the rates at which the U.S. dollar are exchanged into Russian rubles may result in both foreign currency transaction and translation losses. We are subject to exchange rate fluctuations if we or one of our subsidiaries exchanges one currency into another, in order to conduct cross-border operations, and as we translate ruble denominated assets and liabilities that fluctuate from period-to-period. The former results in a transaction gain/loss that is reflected in our operating results. The latter results in a translation gain/loss reflected in other comprehensive income/loss in equity. Additionally, translation of historical operating results at average exchange rates for respective periods of time will also generate foreign currency translation adjustments that are reflected in our operating results.  Presently, BioLab 612 and Panacela conduct most of their activities in Russia. As such we expect most of the foreign currency fluctuations to be related to accounting translations, versus transaction gains and losses.. Even before the current events mentioned above, and since the early 1990s, Russia has sought to transform from a one-party state with a centrally planned economy to a democracy with a market economy. As a result of the sweeping nature of various reforms and the failure of some of them, the political system of Russia remains vulnerable to popular dissatisfaction, including demands for autonomy from particular regional and ethnic groups. Current and future changes in the Russian government, major policy shifts or lack of consensus between various branches of the government and powerful economic groups could disrupt or reverse economic and regulatory reforms. Furthermore, the Russian economy is vulnerable to market downturns and economic slowdowns elsewhere in the world, and has experienced periods of considerable instability. Although the Russian economy showed positive trends until 2008, including annual increases in the gross domestic product, a relatively stable currency, strong domestic demand, rising real wages and a reduced rate of inflation, these trends were interrupted by the global financial crisis in late 2008, in which. 31. Table of Contents. Russia experienced adverse economic and financial effects including a substantial decrease in the growth rate of gross domestic product, depreciation of local currency and a decline in domestic and international demand for its products and services. Economic instability in Russia could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The current geopolitical instability arising from U.S relations with Russia, and related sanctions by the U.S. government against certain Russian companies and individuals, may have an adverse effect on us.. Political and economic relations between Russia and the U.S., two of the jurisdictions in which we operate, are complex. Recent situations involving Ukraine, Crimea, Iran, Syria, and alleged cyberespionage by the Russian government against the U.S. Democratic National Committee and in connection with the 2016 U.S. presidential election, along with the response of the governments of Russia, the U.S., member states of the E.U., the E.U. itself and other nations, have the potential to materially adversely affect our operations in Russia through a variety of situations. In particular, due to Russia's recent military intervention in Ukraine, the United States, Canada and the E.U. have imposed sanctions against Russian officials, certain Russian companies and individuals.  These sanctions were designed to affect various elements of Russia's economy, with a particular focus on defense companies, individuals identified by the U.S. Department of State as being in the \"inner circle\" of the current Russian president, banks and energy companies.  Russia has responded with certain countermeasures, including limiting the import of certain goods from the U.S. and other countries.. There can be no assurance that such sanctions will not be expanded more broadly to impact a greater variety of actors in the Russian economy.  If the U.S. government significantly broadens the scope of sanctions against Russia to impose further political and economic costs, and/or the Russian government responds with further countersanctions, the operation of our direct and indirect Russian subsidiaries, BioLab 612 and Panacela Labs, LLC, which perform clinical development work under grants received from the MPT and have development or other intellectual property rights to certain of our drug candidates, may be materially and adversely affected.  Furthermore, because our company is majority-owned by an investor with ties to Russia, and several Russian citizens and residents serve on our board of directors, our ability to secure and maintain contracts with the U.S. Department of Defense and other U.S. government agencies or departments, from which we received 69.0% and 35.4% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, may become more difficult, which could cause a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, results of operation, and financial condition.. Emerging markets, such as Russia, are subject to greater risks than more developed markets and financial turmoil in Russia could disrupt our business.. Investors in emerging markets, such as Russia, should be aware that these markets are subject to greater risks than more developed markets, including significant economic risks. For example, the Russian economy has periodically experienced high rates of inflation. According to The World Bank, the annual inflation rate in Russia, as measured by the consumer price index, was 15.5% in 2015, 7.1% in 2016 and 3.7% in 2017. Periods of higher inflation may slow economic growth. Inflation also is likely to increase some of our costs and expenses including the costs for our Russian subsidiaries to conduct business operations, including any outsourced product testing costs.. Prospective investors in our common stock should note that emerging markets are subject to rapid change and that the information set forth in our filings with the SEC about our operations in Russia may become outdated relatively quickly.. The legal system in Russia can create an uncertain environment for business activity, which could materially adversely affect our business and operations in Russia.. The legal framework in Russia is still under development and large portions of this framework have only recently become operational. The relatively recent enactment of many laws and the lack of consensus about the aims, scope, content, and pace of economic and political reforms have resulted in ambiguities, inconsistencies, and anomalies in the Russian legal system. The enforceability and underlying constitutionality of more recently enacted laws are in doubt, and many new laws remain untested.. As a result, its legal system can be characterized by: inconsistencies between and among laws and governmental, ministerial, and local regulations, orders, decisions, resolutions, and other acts; gaps in the regulatory structure resulting from the delay in adoption or absence of implementing regulations; selective enforcement of laws or regulations, sometimes in ways that have been perceived as being motivated by political or financial considerations; limited judicial and administrative guidance on interpreting legislation; relatively limited experience of judges and courts in interpreting recent commercial legislation; a perceived lack of judicial and prosecutorial independence from political, social and commercial forces; inadequate court system resources; a high degree of discretion on the part of the judiciary and governmental authorities; and underdeveloped bankruptcy procedures that are subject to abuse.. 32. Table of Contents. In addition, as is true of civil law systems generally, judicial precedents generally have no binding effect on subsequent decisions. Not all legislation and court decisions in Russia are readily available to the public or organized in a manner that facilitates understanding. Enforcement of court orders can in practice be very difficult. All of these factors make judicial decisions difficult to predict and effective redress uncertain. Additionally, court claims and governmental prosecutions may be used in furtherance of what some perceive to be political or commercial aims.. The untested nature of much of recent legislation in Russia and the rapid evolution of its legal system may result in ambiguities, inconsistencies, and anomalies in the application and interpretation of laws and regulations. Any of these factors may affect our ability to enforce our rights under our contracts or to defend ourselves against claims by others, or result in our being subject to unpredictable requirements. These uncertainties also extend to property rights and the expropriation or nationalization of any of our entities, their assets or portions thereof, potentially without adequate compensation, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Judgments rendered by a court in any jurisdiction outside Russia are likely to be recognized by courts in Russia only if: (i) an international treaty providing for the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil cases exists between Russia and the country where the judgment is rendered; and/or (ii) a federal law of Russia providing for the recognition and enforcement of foreign court judgments is adopted. No such federal law has been passed and no such treaty exists between the United States and Russia for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign courts' judgments. In the absence of an applicable treaty or convention providing for the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters between the United States and Russia, a judgment of a U.S. court may be recognized and enforced in Russia only on the grounds of reciprocity. In each case, reciprocity must be established and, in the absence of a developed court practice, it is difficult to predict whether a Russian court will be inclined to recognize and enforce a U.S. court judgment on the grounds of reciprocity in any particular instance.. Changes in the tax system in Russia or the arbitrary or unforeseen application of existing rules could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. There have been significant changes to the taxation system in Russia in recent years as the authorities have gradually replaced legislation regulating the application of major taxes such as corporate income tax, value added tax, corporate property tax, and other taxes with new legislation. Effective January 1, 2015, the Russian tax law was amended as part of the government's \"deoffshorization\" policy to, among other things, introduce a concept analogous to that of controlled foreign corporations found in other jurisdictions.. Tax authorities in Russia have also been aggressive in their interpretation of tax laws and their many ambiguities, as well as in their enforcement and collection activities. Technical violations of contradictory laws and regulations, many of which are relatively new and have not been subject to extensive application or interpretation, can lead to penalties. High-profile companies, particularly those operating in strategically sensitive sectors, can be perceived to be particularly vulnerable to aggressive application of unclear requirements. Many companies must negotiate their tax bills with tax inspectors who may demand higher taxes than applicable law appears to provide. BioLab 612 and Panacela Labs, LLC's tax liabilities may become greater than the estimated amount that they have expensed to date and paid or accrued on the balance sheets, particularly if the tax benefits currently received in Russia are changed or removed. Any additional tax liability, as well as any unforeseen changes in tax laws, could materially adversely affect our future results of operations, financial condition or cash flows in a particular period.. In 2006, the Supreme State Commercial (Arbitrazh) Court of Russia issued a ruling that introduced the concept of an \"unjustified tax benefit,\" which is a benefit that may be disallowed for tax purposes. Specific examples cited by the court include benefits obtained under transactions lacking a business purpose (i.e., when the only purpose of a deal or structure is to derive tax benefits). The tax authorities have actively sought to apply this concept when challenging tax positions taken by taxpayers. Although the intention of the ruling was to combat tax abuse, in practice there is no assurance that the tax authorities will not seek to apply this concept in a broader sense than may have been intended by the court. In addition, the tax authorities and the courts have indicated a willingness to interpret broadly the application of criminal responsibility for tax violations.. Russian transfer pricing laws allow the Russian tax authorities to make transfer pricing adjustments and impose additional tax liabilities with respect to \"controlled\" transactions (except for those conducted at state regulated prices and tariffs). The list of \"controlled\" transactions under the transfer pricing legislation includes transactions performed with related parties and certain types of cross-border transactions. Special transfer pricing rules apply to transactions with securities and derivatives only if they fall in the scope of \"controlled transactions\". The burden of proving market prices rests with the taxpayer.. 33. Table of Contents. The Russian Federation is actively involved in discussing measures against tax evasion by the use of low tax jurisdictions and aggressive tax planning structures. In this regard, the following rules and concepts in the Russian Tax Code may affect our business in Russia:. • Controlled Foreign Companies rules, pursuant to which undistributed profits of certain foreign organizations as well as foreign structures not being legal entities controlled by Russian tax residents should be subject to taxation in Russia;. • the concept of tax residency for legal entities whereby foreign legal entities would be deemed Russian tax residents if their place of management is located in Russia; and. • beneficial ownership concept which provides that treaty relief should be available to foreign legal entities which qualify for the beneficial owners of income.. Implementation of the aforementioned new rules and concepts and some other tax anti-avoidance initiatives may impose additional administrative burden on us. No assurance can be given as to the practical application of these new rules and concepts by the Russian tax authorities and, consequently, their potential impact including additional tax liability, if any on us.. Actions by the tax authorities in Russia may result in the sudden imposition of arbitrary or onerous taxes on our operations in Russia.. BioLab 612 and Panacela Labs, LLC's tax liabilities are subject to periodic tax inspections that may result in tax assessments, penalties and interest being claimed from such subsidiaries for prior tax periods. Generally, tax declarations of Russian subsidiaries remain open and subject to audit by tax and/or customs authorities for three calendar years immediately preceding the year in which the decision to conduct an audit is taken. However, the fact that a particular year has been reviewed by tax authorities does not preclude that year from further review or audit during the eligible three-year limitation period by a superior tax authority. Moreover, the Russian tax authorities are allowed to carry out repeat field tax audits in connection with the restructuring or liquidation of a taxpayer or if the taxpayer resubmits an adjusted tax return based on which the amount of tax is reduced. The limitation of the tax audit period corresponds to the statute of limitations on the commission of a tax offense, which is also limited to three years from the date on which a tax offense was committed or from the date following the end of the tax period during which the tax offense was committed depending on the nature of the tax offense. The Russian Tax Code provides for the extension of the three-year statute of limitations if the actions of the taxpayer created insurmountable obstacles for the tax audit.. As none of the relevant terms are defined, tax authorities may have broad discretion to argue that a taxpayer has \"obstructed\", \"hindered,\" or \"created insurmountable obstacles\" with respect to an inspection and may ultimately seek to review and possibly to apply penalties beyond the three-year term. Further, there is no guarantee that the tax authorities will not review compliance with applicable tax law beyond the three-year limitation period. Tax audits may result in additional costs if the relevant authorities conclude that the BioLab 612, Panacela Labs, LLC, or both did not satisfy their tax obligations in any given year. The outcome of these audits may result in significant fines, penalties and enforcement measures which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.. The tax system in Russia imposes additional burdens and costs on our operations there and complicate our tax planning and related business decisions. For example, the tax environment in Russia has historically been complicated by contradictions in Russian tax law and ambiguity in areas such as the deductibility of certain expenses. This uncertainty could result in a greater than expected tax burden and potentially exposes us to significant fines and penalties and enforcement measures, despite our best efforts at compliance. These factors raise the risk of a sudden imposition of arbitrary or onerous taxes on our operations in Russia. This could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Selective or arbitrary government action may have an adverse effect on our business.. Government authorities have a high degree of discretion in Russia and have at times exercised their discretion selectively or arbitrarily, without hearing or prior notice, and sometimes in a manner that is perceived to be influenced, or may be influenced, by political or commercial considerations. The government also has the power, in certain circumstances, to interfere with the performance of, nullify, or terminate contracts. Selective or arbitrary actions have included withdrawal of licenses, sudden and unexpected tax audits, criminal prosecutions and civil actions. Federal and local government entities have also used common defects in documentation as pretexts for court claims and other demands to invalidate and/or to void transactions, apparently for political purposes. We cannot assure you that regulators, judicial authorities or third parties will not challenge our compliance with applicable laws, decrees and regulations in Russia. Selective or arbitrary government action could have a material adverse effect on our business and on the value of our common stock.. 34. Table of Contents. Shareholder liability under Russian legislation could cause us to become liable for the obligations of our subsidiaries.. Under Russian law, we may become liable for the obligations of our Russian subsidiaries if it was determined that: (i) we had the ability to make, or exert influence on, decisions for such subsidiaries as a result of our equity interest, the terms of a binding contract with such Russian subsidiary or in any other way; and (ii) the relevant Russian subsidiary concluded the transaction giving rise to the obligations pursuant to the Company's instructions or consent. In addition, we may have secondary liability for the obligations of our Russian subsidiaries in a situation where the respective Russian subsidiary becomes insolvent or bankrupt and this was a result of, or was otherwise attributable to, actions of the Company. This type of liability could result in significant losses, and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial position.. Accordingly, in the Company's position as a parent Biolab 612 and Panacela, there is a risk that it could be held liable in certain limited circumstances for the debts of its effective subsidiaries. If this liability is significant, it could materially adversely affect our business and our results of operations.. Russia may depart from its international obligations in exceptional circumstances. In July 2015 the Constitutional Court of the Russian Federation issued a resolution which introduced a mechanism for Russian state bodies to avoid enforcement of decisions of the European Court of Human Rights (\"ECHR\") in cases where such enforcement would contradict the Constitution of the Russian Federation.. Namely, if a Russian court or other governmental body comes to a conclusion that a resolution of the ECHR, which is to be enforced by a Russian court / governmental body, is grounded on an interpretation of the European Convention on Human Rights which leads to contradiction with the Constitution of the Russian Federation - such court/body must apply to the Constitutional Court which will finally determine whether enforcement is permissible or not.. The resolution creates a risk for businesses and persons who might seek legal recourse from the ECHR after failing to receive remedy in all Russian instances, despite the fact that Russia signed and ratified the European Convention of Human Rights.. In addition, there is a risk that such interpretation could be extended to other obligations of Russia in the area of international law. Thus, we might face difficulties enforcing Russian awards obtained from other intergovernmental institutions or tribunals if Russian state authorities consider that award to be grounded on an interpretation of international treaties that is contrary to the norms of the Constitution of the Russian Federation.. Our Russian operating entities can be forced into liquidation on the basis of formal noncompliance with certain legal requirements.. BioLab 612 and Panacela Labs, LLC were organized under the laws of Russia. Certain provisions of Russian law may allow a court to order the liquidation of a locally organized legal entity on the basis of its formal noncompliance with certain requirements during formation, reorganization, or during its operations. Additionally, Russian corporate law allows the government to liquidate a company if its net assets fall below a certain threshold. Similarly, there have also been cases in Russia in which formal deficiencies in the establishment process of a legal entity or noncompliance with provisions of law have been used by courts as a basis for liquidation of a legal entity. Weaknesses in the legal systems of Russia create an uncertain legal environment, which makes the decisions of a court or a governmental authority difficult, if not impossible, to predict. If involuntary liquidation of either of the aforementioned entities were to occur, such liquidation could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Crime and corruption could disrupt our ability to conduct our business.. Political and economic changes in Russia in recent years have resulted in significant dislocations of authority. The local and international press has reported the existence of significant organized criminal activity, particularly in large metropolitan centers. In addition, the local and international press has reported high levels of corruption, including the bribing of officials for the purpose of initiating investigations by government agencies. Press reports have also described instances in which state officials have engaged in selective investigations and prosecutions to further the interests of the state and individual officials, as well as private businesses, including competitors and corporate raiders. Corruption in Russia is perceived to be pervasive and, in some cases,  worsening. The government in Russia has recently pursued a campaign against corruption. However, there is no assurance that such laws or other laws enacted elsewhere will be applied with any effectiveness by the local authorities and the continuing effects of corruption, money laundering and other criminal activity could have a negative effect on the Russian economy and could materially adversely affect our business in Russia.. 35. Table of Contents. Risks Relating to our Securities. Our principal stockholder has the ability to control our business, which may be disadvantageous to other stockholders.. As of the date of this filing, Mr. David Davidovich, a venture capital investor, beneficially owns or controls approximately 57.3% of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. As a result of his ability to control a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock, Mr. Davidovich has the ability to control all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors, amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions. Additionally, we granted Mr. Davidovich contractual rights to choose a majority of the directors nominated for election by our Board. Mr. Davidovich may have interests that are different from those of other stockholders and may vote in a way with which other stockholders disagree and that may be adverse to other stockholders' interests.  Moreover, this concentration of share ownership makes it impossible for other stockholders to replace directors and management without the consent of Mr. Davidovich. In addition, this significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the price at which prospective buyers are willing to pay for our common stock because investors may perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders and may have the effect of delaying, preventing, or deterring a change of control of the Company and could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their company stock as part of a sale of the Company. Additionally, our corporate structure, including the ownership of Mobilan in Panacela, may deter third parties from entering into collaboration and licensing arrangements with us.. We are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the NASDAQ rules and, as a result, qualify for and rely upon exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Accordingly, you will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such requirements.. Because Mr. Davidovich holds common stock that represents a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock, we may be considered a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the NASDAQ corporate governance standards. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group, or another company is a \"controlled company\" and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that:. • a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors;. • we have a nominating and corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors; and. • we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors.. We are currently utilizing these exemptions and therefore, we do not offer the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NASDAQ corporate governance requirements.. There is uncertainty regarding the application of the federal and state securities laws to our February 2015 offering of common stock and warrants, and there is a corresponding risk that we could be required to refund the purchase price of securities offered to purchasers who so elect.. We conducted an offering under a registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (\"SEC\") and a concurrent private placement intended to comply with the requirements of Section 4(a)(2) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Rule 506(b) promulgated thereunder. Shares of common stock and warrants were offered and sold in combination. The shares of common stock and Series B pre-funded warrants were intended to be offered and sold in a transaction registered under the Securities Act, while the other warrants and shares of common stock issuable thereunder were intended to be offered and sold in a private placement exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act.. While we are aware of other transactions using a concurrent public/private offering approach, the SEC has not addressed whether concurrent public and private offerings and sales to the same prospective investors would adversely impact the public offering or preclude the private offering from satisfying the requirements of Rule 506(b). If the securities offered in our concurrent private placement do not satisfy the conditions of Rule 506(b), the offering would be a violation of Section 5 of the Securities Act and each purchaser would have the right to rescind its purchase of the securities, meaning that we would be required to refund the purchase price of the securities to each purchaser electing rescission. If that were to occur, we would face severe financial demands and reputational harm that could adversely affect our business and operations. Additionally, if we did not in fact qualify for the exemptions upon which it has relied, we may become subject to significant fines and penalties imposed by SEC. It is also possible that additional remedies may be available to purchasers under applicable state law.. 36. Table of Contents. The price of our common stock has been and could remain volatile, which may in turn expose us to securities litigation.. The market price of our common stock has historically experienced and may continue to experience significant volatility. From January 1, 2016 through December 31, 2017, the market price of our common stock, which is listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, fluctuated from a high of $5.55 per share in the second quarter of 2017 to a low of $1.22 in the fourth quarter of 2016. The listing of our common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market does not assure that a meaningful, consistent, and liquid trading market will exist, and in recent years, the market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of many smaller companies like us. Our common stock is thus subject to this volatility in addition to volatility caused by the occurrence of industry and company specific events. Factors that could cause fluctuations include, but are not limited to, the following:. • our progress in developing and commercializing our products;. • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time;. • fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies;. • actual or anticipated changes in our earnings or fluctuations in our operating results or in the expectations of securities analysts;. • general economic conditions and trends;. • major catastrophic events;. •  sales of large blocks of our stock;. • departures of key personnel;. • changes in the regulatory status of our product candidates, including results of our preclinical studies and clinical trials;. • status of contract and funding negotiations relating to our product candidates;. • events affecting our collaborators;. • events affecting our competitors;. • announcements of new products or technologies, commercial relationships or other events by us or our competitors;. •  regulatory developments in the U.S. and other countries;. • failure of our common stock to be listed or quoted on the NASDAQ Capital Market, another national market system, or any national stock exchange;. • changes in accounting principles; and. • discussion of us or our stock price by the financial and scientific press and in online investor communities.. In addition, the stock market in general, and the stock price of companies listed on the NASDAQ, and biotechnology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance.. As a result of the volatility of our stock price, we could be subject to securities litigation, which could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and company resources from our business.. Issuance of additional equity may adversely affect the market price of our stock.. We are currently authorized to issue 25,000,000 shares of common stock and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock. As of this filing, 11,279,834 shares of our common stock were issued and outstanding, we had outstanding warrants to purchase 710,174 shares of our common stock at an average exercise price of $8.95 per share, and options to purchase 211,487 shares of our common stock at an average exercise price of $36.94 per share. To the extent we issue shares of common stock or our outstanding options and warrants are exercised, holders of our common stock will experience dilution.. In the event of any other future issuances of equity securities or securities convertible into or exchangeable for, common stock, holders of our common stock may experience dilution. Furthermore, certain of our outstanding warrants contain provisions that, in certain circumstances, could result in the number of shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of such securities to increase and/or the exercise price of such warrants to decrease.. 37. Table of Contents. Moreover, our board of directors is authorized to issue preferred stock without any action on the part of our stockholders. Our board of directors also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any such preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, conversion rights, dividend rights, preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends or if we liquidate, dissolve, or wind up our business and other terms. If we issue additional shares of preferred stock in the future that have preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could decrease. Additionally, the conversion of any preferred stock issued in the future into our common stock could result in significant dilution to the holders of our common stock.. The eventual public resale by certain of our significant stockholders could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock.. In July 2015, we issued an aggregate of 6,716,163 shares of our Company's common stock to Mr. Davidovich and Rusnano. The issuances of these shares were not registered under the Securities Act of 1933, and the shares are only able to be resold pursuant to a separate registration statement or an applicable exemption from registration (under both federal and state securities laws). Contractual restrictions prohibiting Mr. Davidovich from selling his shares have expired and pursuant to the terms of registration rights agreements entered into between the Company and each of Mr. Davidovich and Rusnano, we have filed a registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC to register the public offer and resale of the shares held by these stockholders.  The registration statement has been declared effective by the SEC and Mr. Davidovich and Rusnano are each able to freely sell some or all of their shares of our Company's common stock. If all or a substantial portion of these shares are resold into the public markets under such registration statement or otherwise, such transactions may cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock.. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future.. We do not intend to declare or pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We anticipate that we will retain all of our future earnings for use in the development of our business and for general corporate purposes. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investments.. We also consider from time to time various strategic alternatives that could involve issuances of additional shares of common stock or shares of preferred stock, including but not limited to acquisitions and business combinations.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or publish negative reports about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these reports and we currently do not have any industry analysts covering us. In the event we do regain analyst coverage, there can be no assurance that analysts will provide favorable coverage. Our stock price may be adversely impacted by our current lack of analyst coverage as we may have less visibility in the financial markets than other companies in our industry, which may cause declined trading volume and stock price."
