[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our common shares or other securities is subject to risk inherent to our business and our industry.  Described below are certain risks and uncertainties, the occurrences of which could have a material adverse effect on us.  Before making an investment decision, you should consider carefully all of the risks described below together with the other information included in this report.  The risks and uncertainties described below include known material risks that we face currently.  Although we have extensive risk management policies, practices and procedures aimed to mitigate these risks, uncertainties may nevertheless impair our business operation.  This report is qualified in its entirety by these factors.. Our ERM function provides a framework for management's consideration of risk when making strategic, financial, operational and/or project decisions.  The framework is based on ISO 31000, an internationally recognized risk management standard.  Management uses a consistent methodology to identify and assess risks, determine and implement risk mitigation actions, and monitor and communicate information about the Company's key risks.  Through these processes, we have identified six categories of risk that we are subject to:  (I) economic and market, (II) regulatory, (III) financial, (IV) operational, (V) development and sustainability and (VI) human capital.  The following risk factors are presented according to these key risk categories.. I. ECONOMIC AND MARKET RISKS. The volatility of commodity prices, namely iron ore and steel, affects our ability to generate revenue, maintain stable cash flow and fund our operations, including growth and expansion projects.. As a mining company, our profitability is dependent upon the price of the commodities that we sell to our customers and the price of the products our customers sell, namely iron ore and steel prices.  The price of iron ore has fluctuated significantly in the past and is affected by factors beyond our control, including: steel inventories; international demand for raw materials used in steel production; rates of global economic growth, especially construction and infrastructure activity that requires significant amounts of steel; changes in the levels of economic activity in the U.S., China, India, Europe and other industrialized or developing countries; uncertainties or weaknesses in global economic conditions such as the U.S. debt ceiling; changes in production capacity of other iron ore suppliers, especially as additional supply comes online or where there is a significant increase in imports of steel into the U.S. or Europe; changes in trade laws; weather-related disruptions or natural disasters that may impact the global supply of iron ore; and the proximity, capacity and cost of infrastructure and transportation.. Our earnings, therefore, may fluctuate with the prices of the commodities we sell.  To the extent that the prices of iron ore and steel, including the average hot-rolled coil steel price, significantly decline for an extended period of time, we may have to revise our operating plans, including curtailing production, reducing operating costs and capital expenditures and discontinuing certain exploration and development programs.  We also may have to take impairments on our long-lived assets and/or inventory.  Sustained lower prices also could cause us to further reduce existing reserves if certain reserves no longer can be economically mined or processed at prevailing prices.  We may be unable to decrease our costs in an amount sufficient to offset reductions in revenues and may incur losses.  These events could have a material adverse effect on us.. Uncertainty or weaknesses in global economic conditions, reduced economic growth in China and oversupply of iron ore and excess steel or imported products could affect adversely our business.. The world price of iron ore is influenced strongly by global economic conditions, including international demand and supply for iron ore products.  In particular, the current level of international demand for raw materials used in steel production is driven largely by industrial growth in China.  Uncertainties or weaknesses in global economic conditions, including the slowing economic growth rate in China, has resulted, and could in the future result, in decreased demand for our products and, together with oversupply of imported products, has and may continue to lead to decreased prices, resulting in lower revenue levels and decreasing margins, which have in the past and may in the future affect adversely our business and negatively impact our financial results.  We are not able to predict whether the global economic conditions will improve or worsen and the impact it may have on our operations and the industry in general going forward.. 17. Table of Contents. Capacity expansions and limited rationalization of supply capacity within the mining industry could lead to lower or more volatile global iron ore prices, impacting our profitability.. Global growth of iron ore demand, particularly from China, resulted in iron ore suppliers expanding their production capacity over the past few years.  The supply of iron ore increased due to these expansions.  The previous increases in our competitors' capacity along with actual reduced demand resulted in excess supply of iron ore continue to cause downward pressure on prices.  The limited rationalization of supply capacity has led to volatile pricing which can have an adverse impact on our sales, margins and profitability.  We do not have control over corporate strategies implemented by other iron ore producers that may result in volatility of global iron ore prices.. If steelmakers use methods other than blast furnace production to produce steel or use other inputs, or if their blast furnaces shut down or otherwise reduce production, the demand for our current iron ore products may decrease.. Demand for our iron ore products in North America is determined by the operating rates for the blast furnaces of steel companies.  However, not all finished steel is produced by blast furnaces; finished steel also may be produced by other methods that use scrap steel, pig iron, hot briquetted iron and direct reduced iron.  North American steel producers also can produce steel using imported iron ore, semi-finished steel products or other lighter-weight steel alternatives, which eliminates the need for domestic iron ore.  Future environmental restrictions on the use of blast furnaces in North America also may reduce our customers' use of their blast furnaces.  Maintenance of blast furnaces may require substantial capital expenditures and may cause prolonged outages, which may reduce demand for our pellets.  Our customers may choose not to maintain, or may not have the resources necessary to maintain, their blast furnaces.  If our customers use methods to produce steel that do not use iron ore pellets or if environmental or maintenance issues occur, demand for our current iron ore products will decrease, which would affect adversely our sales, margins, profitability and cash flows.. Due to economic conditions and volatility in commodity prices, or otherwise, our customers could approach us about modification of their supply agreements or fail to perform under such agreements, which could impact adversely our sales, margins, profitability and cash flows.. Although we have long-term contractual commitments for a majority of the sales in our U.S. Iron Ore business, uncertainty in global economic conditions may impact adversely the ability of our customers to meet their obligations.  As a result of such market volatility, our customers could approach us about modifying their supply agreements or fail to perform under such agreements.  Considering our limited base of current and potential customers, any modifications to our sales agreements or customers' failures to perform under such agreements could impact adversely our sales, margins, profitability and cash flows.  For example, of the potential customers in the North American integrated steel industry, one is in reorganization proceedings, and certain others have experienced financial difficulties.  A loss of sales to our existing customers could have a substantial negative impact on our sales, margins, profitability and cash flows.  Other potential actions by our customers could result in additional contractual disputes and could ultimately require arbitration or litigation, either of which could be time consuming and costly.  Any such disputes and/or failure to renew existing contracts on favorable terms could impact adversely our sales, margins, profitability and cash flows.. II. REGULATORY RISKS. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation, which imposes, and will continue to impose, potential significant costs and liabilities on us.  Future laws and regulations or the manner in which they are interpreted and enforced could increase these costs and liabilities or limit our ability to produce iron ore products.. New laws or regulations, or changes in existing laws or regulations, or the manner of their interpretation or enforcement, could increase our cost of doing business and restrict our ability to operate our business or execute our strategies. This includes, among other things, the possible taxation under U.S. law of certain income from foreign operations, compliance costs and enforcement under the Dodd-Frank Act, and costs associated with complying with the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Healthcare and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 and the regulations promulgated thereunder and any replacement or amendments thereof.  In addition, we are subject to various federal, provincial, state and local laws and regulations in each jurisdiction in which we have operations for human health and safety, air quality, water pollution, plant, wetlands, natural resources and wildlife protection, reclamation and restoration of mining properties, the discharge of materials into the environment, the effects that mining has on groundwater quality, conductivity and availability, and related matters. Numerous governmental permits and approvals are required for our operations.. We cannot be certain that we have been or will be at all times in complete compliance with such laws, regulations, permits and approvals.  If we violate or fail to comply with these laws, regulations, permits or approvals, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. Compliance with the complex and extensive laws and regulations to which. 18. Table of Contents. we are subject imposes substantial costs, which could increase over time because of increased regulatory oversight, adoption of increasingly stringent environmental standards, and increased demand for remediation services leading to shortages of equipment, supplies and labor, as well as other factors.. Specifically, there are several notable proposed or recently enacted rulemakings or activities to which we would be subject or that would further regulate and/or tax our customers, namely the North American integrated steel producer customers, that may also require us or our customers to reduce or otherwise change operations significantly or incur significant additional costs, depending on their ultimate outcome.  These emerging or recently enacted rules, regulations and policy guidance include, but are not limited to: trade regulations, such as possible changes to the North American Free Trade Agreement; numerous air regulations, such as climate change and greenhouse gas regulation, NAAQS including but not limited to those for NO2 and SO2, and Minnesota's Mercury Air Emissions Reporting and Reduction Rule; Mercury Total Maximum Daily Load requirements and Taconite Mercury Reduction Strategy; selenium discharge regulation; conductivity water quality standards for aquatic life; expansion of federal jurisdictional authority to regulate groundwater and various other water quality regulations.  Such new or more stringent legislation, regulations, interpretations or orders, when enacted and enforced, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or profitability.. Although the numerous regulations, operating permits and our management systems mitigate potential impacts to the environment, our operations inadvertently may impact the environment or cause exposure to hazardous substances, which could result in material liabilities to us.. Our operations currently use and have used in the past, hazardous materials, and, from time to time, we have generated solid and hazardous waste.  We have been, and may in the future be, subject to claims under federal, provincial, state and local laws and regulations for toxic torts, natural resource damages and other damages as well as for the investigation and clean-up of soil, surface water, sediments, groundwater and other natural resources and reclamation of properties.  Such claims for damages and reclamation may arise out of current or former conditions at sites that we own, lease or operate currently, as well as sites that we or our acquired companies have owned, leased or operated, and at contaminated sites that have been owned, leased or operated by our joint venture partners.  Our liability for these claims may be strict, and/or joint and several, such that we may be held responsible for more than our share of the contamination or other damages, or even for the entire share regardless of fault.  We are subject to a variety of potential liability exposures arising, or otherwise involved in investigation and remediation activities, at certain sites. In addition to sites currently owned, leased or operated, these include sites where we formerly conducted iron ore and/or coal mining or processing or other operations, inactive sites that we currently own, predecessor sites, acquired sites, leased land sites and third-party waste disposal sites.  We may be named as a responsible party at other sites in the future and we cannot be certain that the costs associated with these additional sites will not be material.. We also could be subject to litigation for alleged bodily injuries arising from claimed exposure to hazardous substances allegedly used, released, or disposed of by us.  In particular, we and certain of our subsidiaries were involved in various claims relating to the exposure of asbestos and silica to seamen who sailed until the mid-1980s on the Great Lakes vessels formerly owned and operated by certain of our subsidiaries.  While several hundred of these claims against us had been combined in a multidistrict litigation docket and have since been dismissed and/or settled for non-material amounts, there remains a possibility that similar types of claims could be filed in the future.. Environmental impacts as a result of our operations, including exposures to hazardous substances or wastes associated with our operations, could result in costs and liabilities that could materially and adversely affect our margins, cash flow or profitability.. We may be unable to obtain and/or renew permits necessary for our operations or be required to provide additional financial assurance, which could reduce our production, cash flows, profitability and available liquidity.  We also could face significant permit and approval requirements that could delay our commencement or continuation of new or existing production operations which, in turn, could affect materially our cash flows, profitability and available liquidity.. Prior to commencement of mining, we must submit to and obtain approval from the appropriate regulatory authority of plans showing where and how mining and reclamation operations are to occur.  These plans must include information such as the location of mining areas, stockpiles, surface waters, haul roads, tailings basins and drainage from mining operations.  All requirements imposed by any such authority may be costly and time-consuming and may delay commencement or continuation of exploration or production operations.. 19. Table of Contents. Mining companies must obtain numerous permits that impose strict conditions on various environmental and safety matters in connection with iron ore mining.  These include permits issued by various federal, state and local agencies and regulatory bodies.  The permitting rules are complex and may change over time, making our ability to comply with the applicable requirements more difficult or impractical and costly, possibly precluding the continuance of ongoing operations or the development of future mining operations.  Interpretations of rules may also change over time and may lead to requirements, such as additional financial assurance, making it more costly to comply.  The public, including special interest groups and individuals, have certain rights under various statutes to comment upon, submit objections to, and otherwise engage in the permitting process, including bringing citizens' lawsuits to challenge such permits or mining activities.  Accordingly, required permits may not be issued or renewed in a timely fashion (or at all), or permits issued or renewed may be conditioned in a manner that may restrict our ability to conduct our mining and production activities efficiently, including the requirement for additional financial assurances that we may not be able to provide on commercially reasonable terms or at all and which would further limit our borrowing base under our ABL Facility.  Such inefficiencies could reduce our production, cash flows, profitability and available liquidity.. III. FINANCIAL RISKS. A substantial majority of our sales are made under supply agreements with specified duration to a low number of customers that contain price-adjustment clauses that could affect adversely the stability and profitability of our operations.. A majority of our U.S. Iron Ore sales and our Asia Pacific Iron Ore sales are made under supply agreements with specified durations to a limited number of customers.  For the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 74% of our revenues from product sales and services was derived from the North American integrated steel industry and three customers together accounted for 88% of our U.S. Iron Ore product sales revenues (representing 70% of our consolidated revenues).  Our legacy agreements with ArcelorMittal USA expired at the end of December 2016 and January 2017.  The parties executed a long-term agreement, which became effective October 31, 2016 and expires at the end of December 2026.  Our average remaining duration of our U.S. Iron Ore contracts as of December 31, 2017 is approximately seven years.  Pricing under our contract with ArcelorMittal is adjusted by the price of hot-rolled coil steel in the U.S. domestic market, and iron ore and general inflation indices.  As a result of this and other pricing constructs contained in our customer contracts and those anticipated in future periods, our financial results have increased sensitivity to changes in iron ore and steel prices.  Our Asia Pacific Iron Ore annually-negotiated contracts are with steel companies primarily in China, Japan and South Korea.  In March 2017, we extended the majority of our supply agreements with steel producers in China for one year.  These contracts will expire in March 2018, and we will only renew contracts if it can be done in an economically viable manner.  Our supply agreement with our client in South Korea expired in December 2017. We renewed that agreement for 2018; however, it is at a lower committed quantity than our previous agreement.  Our supply agreements with our customers in Japan expire in March 2018.  These contracts could be renewed for an additional term.  Pricing for our Asia Pacific Iron Ore Chinese customers consists of shorter-term pricing mechanisms of various durations up to three months based on the average of daily spot prices that are generally associated with the time of unloading of each shipment.  Pricing with our Japanese and South Korean customers is generally similar to the inputs used with our Chinese customers, but the pricing inputs are fixed before shipment.. Our existing and future indebtedness may limit cash flow available to invest in the ongoing needs of our business, which could prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our senior notes and ABL Facility.. As of December 31, 2017, we had an aggregate principal amount of $2,439.4 million of long-term debt, $400.0 million of which was secured (excluding $46.5 million of outstanding letters of credit and $47.8 million of capital leases), and $1,007.7 million of cash on our balance sheet.  As of December 31, 2017, no loans were drawn under the ABL Facility and we had total availability of $273.2 million as a result of borrowing base limitations.  As of December 31, 2017, the principal amount of letters of credit obligations and other commitments totaled $46.5 million, thereby further reducing available borrowing capacity on our ABL Facility to $226.7 million.. Our substantial level of indebtedness requires us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of debt service, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions or strategic development initiatives, and other general corporate purposes.  Moreover, our level of indebtedness could have further consequences, including, increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions, limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to enable us to react to changes in our business, or placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to businesses in our industry that have less indebtedness.. Our substantial level of indebtedness could limit our ability to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms or at all for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or strategic development initiatives, and general corporate purposes.  Our liquidity needs could vary significantly and may be affected by general economic conditions, industry. 20. Table of Contents. trends, performance and many other factors not within our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of our existing debt.  Although we were successful in financing our HBI project, we may not be able to obtain any such new or additional debt on favorable terms or at all.. Any failure to comply with covenants in the instruments governing our debt could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, would have a material adverse effect on us.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our debt, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our debt, which may not be successful.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our ability to generate cash in the future and our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our debt.. We also have significant capital requirements, including interest payments to service our debt.  If we incur significant losses in future periods, we may be unable to continue as a going concern.  If we are unable to continue as a going concern, we may consider, among other options, restructuring our debt; however, there can be no assurance that these options will be undertaken and, if so undertaken, whether these efforts will succeed.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital, including additional secured or unsecured debt, or restructure or refinance our debt.  Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, making it more difficult to obtain surety bonds, letters of credit or other financing, particularly during periods in which credit markets are weak; causing a change in our credit ratings; limiting our ability to compete with companies that are not as leveraged and that may be better positioned to withstand economic downturns; and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industry in which we compete and general economic and market conditions. These measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations.. If our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations.  We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or recover the carrying value of these assets or obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them, and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due.  Further, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity, and we may not be able to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all.  Furthermore, additional or new financial assurances may be demanded by our vendors or regulatory agencies that we may not be able to provide on commercially reasonable terms or at all.. Any of these examples potentially could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, profitability, shareholders' equity and capital structure.  Also, if we are to sell a percentage of a business, there are inherent risks relating to joint venture relationships, as noted in the risk factor below.. We rely on our joint venture partners to meet their payment obligations and we are subject to risks involving the acts or omissions of our joint venture partners.. We co-own and manage one of our four operating U.S. Iron Ore mines with ArcelorMittal and U.S. Steel.  We rely on our joint venture partners to make their required capital contributions and to pay for their share of the iron ore produced.  One of our U.S. Iron Ore joint venture partners is also our customer.  If one or both of our joint venture partners fail to perform their obligations, the remaining joint venture partners, including ourselves, may be required to assume additional material obligations, including significant capital contribution, costs of environmental remediation, pension and postretirement health and life insurance benefit obligations.  For example, a premature closure of a mine due to the failure of a joint venture partner to perform its obligations could result in significant fixed mine-closure costs, including severance, employment legacy costs and other employment costs; reclamation and other environmental costs; and the costs of terminating long-term obligations, including energy and transportation contracts and equipment leases.. 21. Table of Contents. We cannot control the actions of our joint venture partners because we have a minority interest in such joint venture.  Further, in spite of performing customary due diligence prior to entering into a joint venture, we cannot guarantee full disclosure of prior acts or omissions of the sellers or those with whom we may in the future enter into joint ventures.  Such risks could have a material adverse effect on the business, results of operations or financial condition of our existing or future joint venture interests.. Our ability to collect payments from our customers depends on their creditworthiness.. Our ability to receive payment for products sold and delivered to our customers depends on the creditworthiness of our customers.  With respect to our Asia Pacific business unit, payment typically is received as the products are shipped and much of the product is secured by bank letters of credit.  By contrast, in our U.S. Iron Ore business unit, generally, we deliver iron ore products to our customers' facilities in advance of payment for those products.  Under this practice for our U.S. customers, title and risk of loss with respect to U.S. Iron Ore products does not pass to the customer until payment for the pellets is received; however, there is typically a period of time in which pellets, for which we have reserved title, are within our customers' control. Where we have identified credit risk with certain customers, we have put in place alternate payment terms from time to time.. Consolidation in some of the industries in which our customers operate have created larger customers.  These factors have caused some customers to be less profitable and increased our exposure to credit risk.  Customers in other countries may be subject to other pressures and uncertainties that may affect their ability to pay, including trade barriers, exchange controls, and local, economic and political conditions.  Downturns in the economy and disruptions in the global financial markets have affected the creditworthiness of our customers from time to time. Some of our customers are highly leveraged.  If economic conditions worsen or prolonged global, national or regional economic recession conditions return, it is likely to impact significantly the creditworthiness of our customers and could, in turn, increase the risk we bear on payment default for the credit we provide to our customers and could limit our ability to collect receivables.  Failure to receive payment from our customers for products that we have delivered could affect adversely our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. Our operating expenses could increase significantly if the price of electrical power, fuel or other energy sources increases.. Our mining operations require significant use of energy.  Energy expenses, which make up approximately 20% to 25% in the aggregate of our operating costs in our U.S. Iron Ore locations, are sensitive to changes in electricity prices and fuel prices, including diesel fuel and natural gas prices.  Prices for electricity, natural gas and fuel oils can fluctuate widely with availability and demand levels from other users.  During periods of peak usage, supplies of energy may be curtailed and we may not be able to purchase them at historical rates.  A disruption in the transmission of energy, inadequate energy transmission infrastructure, or the termination of any of our energy supply contracts could interrupt our energy supply and affect adversely our operations.  While we have some long-term contracts with electrical suppliers, we are exposed to fluctuations in energy costs that can affect our production costs.  As an example, our mines in Minnesota are subject to changes in Minnesota Power's rates, such as periodic rate changes that are reviewed and approved by the state public utilities commission in response to an application filed by Minnesota Power.  We also enter into market-based pricing supply contracts for natural gas and diesel fuel for use in our operations.  Those contracts expose us to price increases in energy costs, which could cause our profitability to decrease significantly.. In addition, U.S. public utilities are expected to pass through additional capital and operating cost increases to their customers related to new or pending U.S. environmental regulations that are expected to require significant capital investment and use of cleaner fuels in the future and which may impact U.S. coal-fired generation capacity.  Our mines in Michigan rely on electricity supplied from the Presque Isle Power Plant, which is coal-fired.  In 2016, we entered into a twenty-year power purchase agreement that contemplates the capital investment by the power company to construct two natural gas power plants in Michigan.  Should the power company fail to build the new power plants or experience significant construction delays, we may be subject to increased operational risk from continued reliance on the existing power plant or increased costs in pursuing alternatives, which could also decrease our profitability.. We are subject to a variety of financial market risks.. Financial market risks include those caused by changes in the value of investments, changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates.  We have established policies and procedures to manage such risks; however, certain risks are beyond our control and our efforts to mitigate such risks may not be effective.  These factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. 22. Table of Contents. We are subject to bankruptcy or insolvency risks relating to our former Canadian operations.. As previously disclosed, the Bloom Lake Group commenced restructuring proceedings under the CCAA in January 2015 to address the Bloom Lake Group's immediate liquidity issues and to preserve and protect its assets for the benefit of all stakeholders while restructuring and/or sale options were explored.  In May 2015, the Wabush Group also commenced restructuring proceedings under the CCAA.  It is possible that (a) as part of the CCAA process (i) claims may be asserted by or on behalf of the Bloom Lake Group or the Wabush Group or by their respective representatives against us and/or non-debtor affiliates of the Bloom Lake Group and the Wabush Group and/or (ii) our claims and non-debtor affiliate claims against the Bloom Lake Group or the Wabush Group may be challenged; and (b) creditors of the Bloom Lake Group, the Wabush Group or their respective representatives may assert claims which may impact adversely non-debtor affiliates of the Bloom Lake Group and the Wabush Group.  While we anticipate the proceeds of the sale of the Bloom Lake Group and the Wabush Group assets may mitigate these risks, to the extent that any such claims are successful, we could be held liable for certain claims or be limited in the amount of recovery on account of its claims against the Bloom Lake Group and the Wabush Group.. A court or regulatory body could find that we are responsible, in whole or in part, for liabilities we transferred to third party purchasers.. As part of our strategy to focus on our U.S. Iron Ore operations, we have sold or otherwise disposed of several non-core assets, such as our North American Coal assets.  Some of the transactions under which we sold or otherwise disposed of our non-core assets included provisions transferring certain liabilities to the purchasers or acquirers of those non-core assets.  While we believe that all such transfers were completed properly and are legally binding, if the purchaser fails to fulfill its obligations, we may be at risk that some court or regulatory body could disagree and determine that we remain responsible for liabilities we intended to and did transfer.. Changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations could adversely affect our cost of financing and the market price of our securities.. Credit rating agencies could downgrade our ratings either due to factors specific to our business, a prolonged cyclical downturn in the mining industry, or macroeconomic trends (such as global or regional recessions) and trends in credit and capital markets more generally.  Any decline in our credit ratings may result in an increase to our cost of future financing and limit our access to the capital markets, which would harm our financial condition and results of operations, hinder our ability to refinance existing indebtedness on acceptable terms, have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities and may affect adversely the terms under which we purchase goods and services.. Our actual operating results may differ significantly from our guidance.. From time to time, we release guidance, including that set forth under \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Outlook\" in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K and our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, regarding our future performance. This guidance, which consists of forward-looking statements, is prepared by our management and is qualified by, and subject to, the assumptions and the other information included in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K and our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Our guidance is not prepared with a view toward compliance with published guidelines of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and neither our independent registered public accounting firm nor any other independent or outside party compiles or examines the guidance and, accordingly, no such person expresses any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect thereto.. Guidance is based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control and are based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change. The principal reason that we release such data is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any such persons.. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions of the guidance furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, our guidance is only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results will vary from the guidance. Investors should also recognize that the reliability of any forecasted financial data diminishes the farther in the future that the data are forecast. In light of the foregoing, investors are urged to put the guidance in context and not to place undue reliance on it.. 23. Table of Contents. Any failure to successfully implement our operating strategy or the occurrence of any of the events or circumstances set forth in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K or our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q could result in actual operating results being different than the guidance, and such differences may be adverse and material.. IV. OPERATIONAL RISKS. We incur certain costs when production capacity is idled, including increased costs to resume production at idled facilities and costs to idle facilities.. Our decisions concerning which mines to operate and at what capacity levels are made based upon our customers' orders for products, the quality of and cost to mine and process the remaining ore body, as well as the capabilities and cost performance of our mines.  During depressed market conditions, we may concentrate production at certain mines and not operate others in response to customer demand and as a result we will incur idle facility costs.  In 2016, two of our Minnesota mines were temporarily idled for a portion of the year, and we indefinitely idled the Empire mine in Michigan in August 2016.. When we restart idled facilities, we incur certain costs to replenish inventories, prepare the previously idled facilities for operation, perform the required repair and maintenance activities and prepare employees to return to work safely and to resume production responsibilities.  The amount of any such costs can be material, depending on a variety of factors, such as the period of idle time, necessary repairs and available employees, and is difficult to project.. Faced with overcapacity in the iron ore market, we may seek to rationalize assets through asset sales, temporary shutdowns, indefinite idles or closures of facilities.. Mine closures entail substantial costs.  If we prematurely close one or more of our mines, our results of operations and financial condition would likely be affected adversely.. If we prematurely close any of our mines, our revenues would be reduced unless we were able to increase production at our other mines, which may not be possible.  The closure of a mining operation involves significant fixed closure costs, including accelerated employment legacy costs, severance-related obligations, reclamation and other environmental costs, and the costs of terminating long-term obligations, including customer, energy and transportation contracts and equipment leases.  A review of these types of potential costs is currently underway with respect to our Asia Pacific Iron Ore operations.  We base our assumptions regarding the life of our mines on detailed studies we perform from time to time, but those studies and assumptions are subject to uncertainties and estimates that may not be accurate.  We recognize the costs of reclaiming open pits, stockpiles, tailings ponds, roads and other mining support areas based on the estimated mining life of our property.  If we were to significantly reduce the estimated life of any of our mines, the mine-closure costs would be applied to a shorter period of production, which would increase costs per ton produced and could significantly and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. A U.S. mine permanent closure could accelerate and significantly increase employment legacy costs, including our expense and funding costs for pension and other postretirement benefit obligations.  A number of employees would be eligible for immediate retirement under special eligibility rules that apply upon a mine closure.  All employees eligible for immediate retirement under the pension plans at the time of the permanent mine closure also could be eligible for postretirement health and life insurance benefits, thereby accelerating our obligation to provide these benefits.  Certain mine closures would precipitate a pension closure liability significantly greater than an ongoing operation liability.  Finally, a permanent mine closure could trigger severance-related obligations, which can equal up to sixteen weeks of pay per employee in some jurisdictions, depending on length of service.  As a result, the closure of one or more of our mines could affect adversely our financial condition and results of operations.. Our sales and competitive position depend on the ability to transport our products to our customers at competitive rates and in a timely manner.. In our U.S. Iron Ore operations, disruption of the lake and rail transportation services because of weather-related problems, including ice and winter weather conditions on the Great Lakes or St. Lawrence Seaway, climate change, strikes, lock-outs, or other events and lack of alternative transportation options, could impair our ability to supply iron ore to our customers at competitive rates or in a timely manner and, thus, could adversely affect our sales, margins and profitability.  Further, reduced dredging and environmental changes, particularly at Great Lakes ports, could impact negatively our ability to move our iron ore products because lower water levels restrict the tonnage that vessels can haul, resulting in higher freight rates.. 24. Table of Contents. Our Asia Pacific Iron Ore operations also are dependent upon rail and port capacity. Disruptions in rail service or availability of dock capacity could similarly impair our ability to supply iron ore to our customers, thereby adversely affecting our sales and profitability. In addition, our Asia Pacific Iron Ore operations are also in direct competition with the major world seaborne exporters of iron ore and our customers face higher transportation costs than the customers of most other Australian producers to ship our products to the Asian markets because of the location of our major shipping port on the southwest coast of Australia.  Further, increases in transportation costs, including volatile fuel rates, decreased availability of ocean vessels or changes in such costs relative to transportation costs incurred by our competitors could make our products less competitive, restrict our access to certain markets and have an adverse effect on our sales, margins and profitability.. Natural disasters, weather conditions, disruption of energy, unanticipated geological conditions, equipment failures, and other unexpected events may lead our customers, our suppliers or our facilities to curtail production or shut down operations.. Operating levels within the mining industry are subject to unexpected conditions and events that are beyond the industry's control.  Those events could cause industry members or their suppliers to curtail production or shut down a portion or all of their operations, which could reduce the demand for our iron ore products, and could affect adversely our sales, margins and profitability.. Interruptions in production capabilities inevitably will increase our production costs and reduce our profitability.  We do not have meaningful excess capacity for current production needs, and we are not able to quickly increase production or re-start production at one mine to offset an interruption in production at another mine.  Additionally, re-start production costs can be even higher if required to be taken during extremely cold weather conditions.. A portion of our production costs are fixed regardless of current operating levels.  As noted, our operating levels are subject to conditions beyond our control that can delay deliveries or increase the cost of mining at particular mines for varying lengths of time.  These include weather conditions (for example, extreme winter weather, tornadoes, floods, and the lack of availability of process water due to drought) and natural and man-made disasters, tailings dam failures, pit wall failures, unanticipated geological conditions, including variations in the amount of rock and soil overlying the deposits of iron ore, variations in rock and other natural materials and variations in geologic conditions and ore processing changes.. The manufacturing processes that take place in our mining operations, as well as in our processing facilities, depend on critical pieces of equipment.  This equipment may, on occasion, be out of service because of unanticipated failures.  In addition, all of our mines and processing facilities have been in operation for several decades, and the equipment is aged. In the future, we may experience additional material plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production because of equipment failures.  Further, remediation of any interruption in production capability may require us to make large capital expenditures that could have a negative effect on our profitability and cash flows.  Our business interruption insurance would not cover all of the lost revenues associated with equipment failures.  Longer-term business disruptions could result in a loss of customers, which adversely could affect our future sales levels and, therefore, our profitability.. Regarding the impact of unexpected events happening to our suppliers, many of our mines are dependent on one source for electric power and for natural gas.  A significant interruption in service from our energy suppliers due to terrorism or sabotage, weather conditions, natural disasters, or any other cause can result in substantial losses that may not be fully recoverable, either from our business interruption insurance or responsible third parties.. We may not have adequate insurance coverage for some business risks.. As noted above, our operations are generally subject to a number of hazards and risks, which could result in damage to, or destruction of, equipment, properties or facilities.  The insurance that we maintain to address risks that are typical in our business may not provide adequate coverage.  Insurance against some risks, such as liabilities for environmental pollution, tailings basin breaches, or certain hazards or interruption of certain business activities, may not be available at an economically reasonable cost, or at all.  Even if available, we may self-insure where we determine it is most cost-effective to do so.  As a result, accidents or other negative developments involving our mining, production or transportation activities could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. 25. Table of Contents. A disruption in, or failure of our information technology systems, including those related to cybersecurity, could adversely affect our business operations and financial performance.. We rely on the accuracy, capacity and security of our information technology (\"IT\") systems for the operations of many of our business processes and to comply with regulatory, legal, and tax requirements. While we maintain some of our critical information technology systems, we are also dependent on third parties to provide important IT services relating to, among other things, human resources, electronic communications and certain finance functions. Despite the security measures that we have implemented, including those related to cybersecurity, our systems could be breached or damaged by computer viruses, natural or man-made incidents or disasters or unauthorized physical or electronic access. Though we have controls in place, we cannot provide assurance that a cyber-attack will not occur.  Furthermore, we may have little or no oversight with respect to security measures employed by third-party service providers, which may ultimately prove to be ineffective at countering threats.  Failures of our IT systems, whether caused maliciously or inadvertently, may result in the disruption of our business processes, or in the unauthorized release of sensitive, confidential or otherwise protected information or result in the corruption of data, which could adversely affect our business operations and financial performance. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against and, if required, remediate the damage caused by such disruptions or system failures in the future.. We are subject to risks involving operations and sales in multiple countries.. We supply raw materials to the global integrated steel industry with substantial assets located outside of the U.S.  We conduct operations in the U.S. and Australia.  As such, we are subject to additional risks beyond those relating to our U.S. operations, such as fluctuations in currency exchange rates; potentially adverse tax consequences due to overlapping or differing tax structures; burdens to comply with multiple and potentially conflicting foreign laws and regulations, including export requirements, tariffs, economic sanctions and other barriers, environmental health and safety requirements, and unexpected changes in any of these laws and regulations; the imposition of duties, tariffs, import and export controls and other trade barriers impacting the seaborne iron ore markets; difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations; political and economic instability and disruptions, including terrorist attacks; disadvantages of competing against companies from countries that are not subject to U.S. laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; and uncertainties in the enforcement of legal rights and remedies in multiple jurisdictions.. With the finalization of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development's (\"OECD\"), Base Erosion and Profit Shifting study, referred to as the Actions, many OECD countries have acknowledged their intent to implement the Actions and update their local tax regulations.  The extent (if any) to which countries in which we operate adopt and implement the Actions could affect our effective tax rate and our future results from non-U.S. operations.. Compliance with the laws and regulations described above or with other applicable foreign, federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations currently in effect or that may be adopted in the future could expose us to additional risks.  If we are unable to manage successfully the risks associated with operating our global business, these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Our profitability could be affected adversely by the failure of outside contractors and/or suppliers to perform.. Asia Pacific Iron Ore uses contractors to handle many of the operational phases of its mining and processing operations and, therefore, we are subject to the performance of outside companies on key production areas.  We use contractors to help complete certain capital projects, such as upgrades to our existing U.S. Iron Ore facilities, and a contractor's or supplier's failure to perform could affect adversely our production, sales, and our ability to fulfill customer requirements.  Such failure to perform in a significant way would result in additional costs for us, which also could affect adversely our production rates, sales and results of operations.. V. DEVELOPMENT AND SUSTAINABILITY RISKS. The cost and time to implement a strategic capital project may prove to be greater than originally anticipated.. We undertake strategic capital projects, such as the HBI project, in order to enhance, expand or upgrade our mines, production capabilities and diversify our customer base.  Our ability to achieve the anticipated volumes of production, revenues or otherwise realize acceptable returns on strategic capital projects that we may undertake is subject to a number of risks, many of which are beyond our control, including a variety of market (such as a volatile pricing environment for iron ore), operational, permitting and labor-related factors.  Further, the cost to implement any given strategic capital project ultimately may prove to be greater and may take more time than originally anticipated.  Inability to achieve the anticipated results from the implementation of our strategic capital projects, or the incurring of. 26. Table of Contents. unanticipated implementation costs, penalties or inability to meet contractual obligations could affect adversely our results of operations and future earnings and cash flow generation.. We continually must replace reserves depleted by production.  Exploration activities may not result in additional discoveries.. Our ability to replenish our ore reserves is important to our long-term viability.  Depleted ore reserves must be replaced by further delineation of existing ore bodies or by locating new deposits in order to maintain production levels over the long term.  For example, in 2017 we made investments in our Tilden and Empire mines and in land in Minnesota to provide future potential ore reserves.  Resource exploration and development are highly speculative in nature.  Exploration projects involve many risks, require substantial expenditures and may not result in the discovery of sufficient additional mineral deposits that can be mined profitably.  Once a site with mineralization is discovered, it may take several years from the initial phases of drilling until production is possible, during which time the economic feasibility of production may change.  Substantial expenditures are required to establish recoverable proven and probable reserves and to construct mining and processing facilities.  As a result, there is no assurance that current or future exploration programs will be successful and there is a risk that depletion of reserves will not be offset by discoveries or acquisitions.. We rely on estimates of our recoverable reserves, which is complex due to geological characteristics of the properties and the number of assumptions made.. We regularly evaluate our U.S. Iron Ore reserves based on revenues and costs and update them as required in accordance with SEC Industry Guide 7.  Our Asia Pacific Iron Ore business segment has published reserves that follow the Joint Ore Reserve Code in Australia, with certain changes to our Western Australian reserve values to make them comply with SEC requirements.  There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of reserves of our mines, including many factors beyond our control.. Estimates of reserves and future net cash flows necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, such as production capacity, effects of regulations by governmental agencies, future prices for iron ore, future industry conditions and operating costs, severance and excise taxes, development costs and costs of extraction and reclamation, all of which may vary considerably from actual results.  Estimating the quantity and grade of reserves requires us to determine the size, shape and depth of our mineral bodies by analyzing geological data, such as samplings of drill holes.  In addition to the geology assumptions of our mines, assumptions are also required to determine the economic feasibility of mining these reserves, including estimates of future commodity prices and demand, the mining methods we use, and the related costs incurred to develop and mine our reserves.  For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of mineralized deposits attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of such reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of future net cash flows prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times may vary substantially as the criteria change.  Estimated ore reserves could be affected by future industry conditions, future changes in the SEC's mining property disclosure requirements, geological conditions and ongoing mine planning.  Actual volume and grade of reserves recovered, production rates, revenues and expenditures with respect to our reserves will likely vary from estimates, and if such variances are material, our sales and profitability could be affected adversely.. Defects in title or loss of any leasehold interests in our properties could limit our ability to mine these properties or result in significant unanticipated costs.. A portion of our mining operations are conducted on properties we lease, license or as to which we have easements or other possessory interests, which we refer to as \"leased properties.\"  Consistent with industry practice, title to most of these leased properties and mineral rights are not usually verified until we make a commitment to develop a property, which may not occur until after we have obtained necessary permits and completed exploration of the leased property.  In some cases, title with respect to leased properties is not verified at all because we instead rely on title information or representations and warranties provided by lessors or grantors. We do not maintain title insurance on our owned or leased mining properties.  A title defect or the loss of any lease, license or easement for any leased mining property could affect adversely our ability to mine any associated reserves.  In addition, from time to time the rights of third parties for competing uses of adjacent, overlying, or underlying lands such as for roads, easements and public facilities may affect our ability to operate as planned if our title is not superior or arrangements cannot be negotiated.. Any challenge to our title could delay the exploration and development of some reserves, deposits or surface rights, cause us to incur unanticipated costs and could ultimately result in the loss of some or all of our interest in those reserves or surface rights.  In the event we lose reserves, deposits or surface rights, we may have to shut down or significantly alter the sequence of our mining operations, which may affect adversely our future production, revenues and cash flows.  Additionally, if we lose any leasehold interests relating to any of our pellet plants or loadout facilities, we may need to find an alternative location to process our iron ore and load it for delivery to customers, which could. 27. Table of Contents. result in significant unanticipated costs.  Finally, we could incur significant liability if we inadvertently mine on property we do not own or lease.. In order to continue to foster growth in our business and maintain stability of our earnings, we must maintain our social license to operate with our stakeholders.. As a mining company, maintaining a strong reputation and consistent operational and safety history is vital in order to continue to foster growth and maintain stability in our earnings.  As sustainability expectations increase and regulatory requirements continue to evolve, maintaining our social license to operate becomes increasingly important.  We incorporate social license expectations in our ERM program.  Our ability to maintain our reputation and strong operating history could be threatened, including by circumstances outside of our control, such as disasters caused or suffered by other mining companies.  If we are not able to respond effectively to these and other challenges to our social license to operate, our reputation could be damaged significantly.  Damage to our reputation could affect adversely our operations and ability to foster growth in our company.. Estimates and timelines relating to new development projects are uncertain and we may incur higher costs and lower economic returns than estimated.. Mining industry development projects typically require a number of years and significant expenditures before production is possible.  Such projects could experience unexpected problems and delays during development, construction and start-up.. Our decision to develop a project typically is based on the results of feasibility studies, which estimate the anticipated economic returns of a project.  The actual project profitability or economic feasibility may differ from such estimates as a result of any of the following factors, among others: changes in tonnage, grades and metallurgical characteristics of ore or other raw materials to be mined and processed; estimated future prices of the relevant product; changes in customer demand; higher construction and infrastructure costs; the quality of the data on which engineering assumptions were made; higher production costs; adverse geotechnical conditions; availability of adequate labor force; availability and cost of water and energy; availability and cost of transportation; fluctuations in inflation and currency exchange rates; availability and terms of financing; delays in obtaining environmental or other government permits or changes in laws and regulations including environmental laws and regulations; weather or severe climate impacts; and potential delays relating to social and community issues.. The production of hot briquetted iron is a capital-intensive business and our ongoing efforts with respect to our HBI project will require the commitment of substantial resources.  Any unanticipated costs or delays associated with our HBI project could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. Our ongoing efforts with respect to our HBI project require the commitment of substantial resources for operating expenses and capital expenditures. We currently expect to incur total capital expenditures through 2020 on the HBI project of approximately $700 million on the development of the HBI production plant in Toledo, Ohio and $80 million for upgrades at the Northshore plant to enable it to produce significantly increased levels of DR-grade pellets that could be used as feedstock for the HBI production plant and/or sold commercially. Each of these estimates are exclusive of construction-related contingencies and capitalized interest. Our estimated expenses may increase as personnel and equipment associated with advancing development and commercial production are added. The progress of our HBI project and the amounts and timing of expenditures will depend in part on the following:. receiving and maintaining required federal, state and local permits;.  completing infrastructure and construction work and the completion of commissioning and integration of all of the systems comprising our HBI production plant;. negotiating sales contracts for our planned production;. the execution of any joint venture agreements or similar arrangements with strategic partners; and. other factors, many of which are beyond our control.. Most of these activities require significant lead times and must be advanced concurrently.. Any unanticipated costs or other delays associated with our HBI project could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations and could require us to seek additional capital, which may not be available on commercially acceptable terms or at all.. 28. Table of Contents. Our ability to realize the benefits of any potential acquisitions is uncertain.. Should we determine to pursue any acquisitions, the success of the same is subject to risks and uncertainties, including our ability to realize operating efficiencies expected from an acquisition; the size or quality of the mineral potential; delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition; difficulties in retaining key employees, customers or suppliers of the acquired business; the risks associated with the assumption of contingent or undisclosed liabilities of acquisition targets; the impact of changes to our allocation of purchase price; and the ability to generate future cash flows or the availability of financing.. Moreover, any acquisition opportunities we pursue could affect materially our liquidity and capital resources and may require us to incur indebtedness, seek equity capital or both.  Future acquisitions could also result in us assuming more long-term liabilities relative to the value of the acquired assets than we may have assumed in previous acquisitions.. VI. HUMAN CAPITAL RISKS. Our profitability could be affected adversely if we fail to maintain satisfactory labor relations.. Production in our mines is dependent upon the efforts of our employees.  We are party to labor agreements with various labor unions that represent employees at our operations.  Such labor agreements are negotiated periodically, and, therefore, we are subject to the risk that these agreements may not be able to be renewed on reasonably satisfactory terms.  It is difficult to predict what issues may arise as part of the collective bargaining process, and whether negotiations concerning these issues will be successful.  Due to union activities or other employee actions, we could experience labor disputes, work stoppages, or other disruptions in our production of iron ore that could affect us adversely.  The USW represents all labor employees at our U.S. Iron Ore operations owned and/or managed by Cliffs or its subsidiary companies except for Northshore.  Our labor agreements with the USW at four of our U.S. Iron Ore operations were ratified in September 2016 and extend for a three-year term, effective as of October 1, 2015.. If we enter into a new labor agreement with any union that significantly increases our labor costs relative to our competitors or fail to come to an agreement upon expiry, our ability to compete may be materially and adversely affected.. We may encounter labor shortages for critical operational positions, which could affect adversely our ability to produce our products.. We are predicting a long-term shortage of skilled workers for the mining industry and competition for the available workers limits our ability to attract and retain employees.  Additionally, at our U.S. mining locations, many of our mining operational employees are approaching retirement age.  As these experienced employees retire, we may have difficulty replacing them at competitive wages.. Our expenditures for post-retirement benefit and pension obligations could be materially higher than we have predicted if our underlying assumptions differ from actual outcomes, there are mine closures, or our joint venture partners fail to perform their obligations that relate to employee pension plans.. We provide defined benefit pension plans and OPEB to certain eligible union and non-union employees in the U.S., including our share of expense and funding obligations with respect to our unconsolidated joint venture.  Our pension and OPEB expenses and our required contributions to our pension and OPEB plans are affected directly by the value of plan assets, the projected and actual rate of return on plan assets, and the actuarial assumptions we use to measure our defined benefit pension plan obligations, including the rate at which future obligations are discounted.. We cannot predict whether changing market or economic conditions, regulatory changes or other factors will increase our pension and OPEB expenses or our funding obligations, diverting funds we would otherwise apply to other uses.. We have calculated our unfunded pension and OPEB obligations based on a number of assumptions, including our joint venture partners satisfying their funding obligations.  If our assumptions do not materialize as expected, cash expenditures and costs that we incur could be materially higher.  Moreover, we cannot be certain that regulatory changes will not increase our obligations to provide these or additional benefits.  These obligations also may increase substantially in the event of adverse medical cost trends or unexpected rates of early retirement, particularly for bargaining unit retirees.. 29. Table of Contents. We depend on our senior management team and other key employees, and the loss of these employees could adversely affect our business.. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract and motivate our senior management and key employees.  Achieving this objective may be difficult due to a variety of factors, including fluctuations in the global economic and industry conditions, competitors' hiring practices, cost reduction activities, and the effectiveness of our compensation programs.  Competition for qualified personnel can be intense.  We must continue to recruit, retain, and motivate our senior management and key personnel in order to maintain our business and support our projects.  A loss of senior management and key personnel could prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities, and our operating results could be adversely affected."
