[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. In addition to other information in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company's business. The Company's business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks.. The inability of the Company to successfully integrate the operations and employees acquired in the System Transformation into existing operations could adversely affect the Company's business, culture or results of operations.. During the fourth quarter of 2017, the Company completed its System Transformation transactions, through which it acquired additional distribution territories and manufacturing facilities from CCR and United. Through these acquisitions and the additional resources needed to support the Company's growth, the Company has grown from 6,700 employees serving 20.6 million customers in fiscal 2013 to 16,500 employees serving 65 million customers in 2017.. Although the System Transformation acquisitions are now complete, the Company continues to face risk in its ability to continue to integrate the Company's culture, information technology systems, production, distribution, sales and administrative support activities, internal controls over financial reporting, environmental compliance and health and safety compliance, procedures and policies across all its territories.. The completed System Transformation acquisitions involve certain other financial and business risks. The Company may not realize a satisfactory return, including economic benefit and productivity levels, on the Company's investments. In addition, the Company's assumptions for potential growth, synergies or cost savings at the time of the distribution territory and manufacturing facilities acquisitions may prove to be incorrect. The occurrence of these events could adversely affect the Company's financial condition or results of operations.. Changes in public and consumer perception and preferences or government regulations related to nonalcoholic beverages, including concerns or regulations related to obesity, public health, artificial ingredients and product safety, could reduce demand for the Company's products and reduce profitability.. The Company's business depends substantially on consumer tastes and preferences that change in often unpredictable ways. As the Company distributes, markets and manufactures beverage brands owned by others, the success of the Company's business depends in large measure on working with the Beverage Companies. The Company is reliant upon the ability of The Coca - Cola Company and other Beverage Companies to develop and introduce product innovations to meet the changing preferences of the broad consumer market, and failure to satisfy these consumer preferences could adversely affect the profitability of the Company's business.. Health and wellness trends over the past several years have resulted in a shift in consumer preferences from sugar sweetened sparkling beverages to diet sparkling beverages, tea, sports drinks, enhanced water and bottled water. Consumers, public health officials, public health advocates and government officials are becoming increasingly concerned about the public health consequences associated with obesity, particularly among young people. The production and marketing of beverages are subject to the rules and regulations of the FDA and other federal, state and local health agencies, and extensive changes in these rules and regulations could increase the Company's costs or adversely impact its sales. The Company cannot predict whether any such rules or regulations will be enacted or, if enacted, the impact that such rules or regulations could have on its business.. In addition, regulatory actions, activities by nongovernmental organizations and public debate and concerns about perceived negative safety and quality consequences of certain ingredients in the Company's products, such as non-nutritive sweeteners, may erode consumers' confidence in the safety and quality of the Company's products, whether or not justified. These actions could result in additional governmental regulations concerning the production, marketing, labeling or availability of the Company's products or the ingredients in such products, possible new taxes or negative publicity resulting from actual or threatened legal actions against the Company or other companies in the same industry, any of which could damage the reputation of the Company or reduce demand for the Company's products, which could adversely affect the Company's profitability.. The Company's success also depends on its ability to maintain consumer confidence in the safety and quality of all its products. The Company has rigorous product safety and quality standards. However, if beverage products taken to market are or become contaminated or adulterated, the Company may be required to conduct costly product recalls and may become subject to product liability claims and negative publicity, which could cause its business and reputation to suffer.. 15. The Company's business and results of operations may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials, fuel and other supplies.. Raw material costs, including the costs for plastic bottles, aluminum cans, resin and high fructose corn syrup, have historically been subject to significant price volatility and may continue to be in the future. International or domestic geopolitical or other events, including the imposition of any tariffs and/or quotas by the U.S. government on any of these raw materials, could adversely impact the supply and cost of these raw materials to us. In addition, there is no limit on the prices The Coca - Cola Company and other Beverage Companies can charge for concentrate. If the Company cannot offset higher raw material costs with higher selling prices, effective commodity price hedging, increased sales volume or reductions in other costs, the Company's profitability could be adversely affected.. In recent years, there has been consolidation among suppliers of certain of the Company's raw materials, which could have an adverse effect on the Company's ability to negotiate the lowest costs and, in light of the Company's relatively low in-plant raw material inventory levels, has the potential for causing interruptions in the Company's supply of raw materials and in its manufacture of finished goods.. The Company purchases all of its plastic bottles from Southeastern Container and Western Container, two manufacturing cooperatives the Company co-owns with several other Coca - Cola bottlers, and all of its aluminum cans from two domestic suppliers. The inability of these plastic bottle or aluminum can suppliers to meet the Company's requirements for containers could result in the Company not being able to fulfill customer orders and production demand until alternative sources of supply are located. The Company attempts to mitigate these risks by working closely with key suppliers and by purchasing business interruption insurance where appropriate. Failure of the aluminum can or plastic bottle suppliers to meet the Company's purchase requirements could negatively impact inventory levels, customer confidence and results of operations, including sales levels and profitability.. The Company uses a combination of internal and external freight shipping and transportation services to transport and deliver products.  The Company's freight cost and the timely delivery of our products may be adversely impacted by a number of factors which could reduce the profitability of the Company's operations, including driver shortages, reduced availability of independent contractor drivers, higher fuel costs, weather conditions, traffic congestion, increased government regulation and other matters.. In addition, the Company uses significant amounts of fuel for its delivery fleet and other vehicles used in the distribution of its products. International or domestic geopolitical or other events could impact the supply and cost of fuel and could impact the timely delivery of the Company's products to its customers. Although the Company strives to reduce fuel consumption and uses commodity hedges to manage the Company's fuel costs, there can be no assurance the Company will succeed in limiting the impact of fuel price volatility on the Company's business or future cost increases, which could reduce the profitability of the Company's operations.. Technology failures or cyberattacks on the Company's technology systems could disrupt the Company's operations and negatively impact the Company's reputation, business or results of operations.. The Company depends heavily upon the efficient operation of technological resources and a failure in these technology systems or controls could negatively impact the Company's operations, business or results of operations. In addition, the Company continuously upgrades and updates current technology or installs new technology. The inability to implement upgrades, updates or installations in a timely manner, to train employees effectively in the use of new or updated technology, or to obtain the anticipated benefits of the Company's technology could adversely impact results of operations or profitability.. The Company increasingly relies on information technology systems to process, transmit and store electronic information. For example, the Company's production and distribution facilities, inventory management and driver handheld devices all utilize information technology to maximize efficiencies and minimize costs. Furthermore, a significant portion of the communication between personnel, customers and suppliers depends on information technology.. Like most companies, the Company's information technology systems may be vulnerable to interruption due to a variety of events beyond the Company's control, including, but not limited to, power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, other malicious computer programs and cyberattacks, denial-of-service attacks, security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes, earthquakes and hurricanes, usage errors by employees and other security issues.. The Company has technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans in place to mitigate its risk to these vulnerabilities, however these measures may not be adequate or implemented properly to ensure that the Company's operations are not disrupted. If the Company's technology systems are damaged, breached, or cease to function properly, it may incur significant costs to repair or replace them, and the Company may suffer interruptions in operations, resulting in lost revenues, and delays in reporting its financial results.. 16. Further, misuse, leakage or falsification of the Company's information could result in violations of data privacy laws and regulations and damage the reputation and credibility of the Company. The Company may suffer financial and reputational damage because of lost or misappropriated confidential information belonging to the Company, current or former employees, bottling partners, other customers, suppliers or consumers, and may become subject to legal action and increased regulatory oversight. The Company could also be required to spend significant financial and other resources to remedy the damage caused by a security breach or to repair or replace networks and information technology systems, including liability for stolen information, increased cybersecurity protection costs, litigation expense and increased insurance premiums.. Any failure or delay of the Company to transition to, and receive anticipated benefits from, the CONA System or the decisions made by the CONA Board could negatively impact the Company's results of operations.. The Company is a member of CONA and party to the CONA MSA, pursuant to which the Company is an authorized user of the CONA System, a uniform information technology system developed to promote operational efficiency and uniformity among all North American Coca - Cola bottlers. The Company is continuing the process of transitioning its legacy technology system platform to the CONA System for its manufacturing facilities, distribution facilities and corporate headquarters. The Company anticipates completing the transition of all locations to the CONA System by the end of fiscal 2018.. Although the Company believes it has taken the necessary steps to mitigate risk associated with a phased cut-over to the CONA System, including a comprehensive review of internal controls, extensive employee training, and additional verifications and testing to ensure data integrity, any service interruptions or delays in the Company's transition to the CONA System could result in increased costs or adversely impact the Company's results of operations. In addition, because other Coca - Cola bottlers are also transitioning to the CONA System and would likely experience similar service interruptions or delays, the Company may not be able to have another bottler process orders on its behalf during any such event.. The Company currently has the right to designate one of the members of the CONA Board and has a percentage interest in CONA of approximately 20% but cannot unilaterally control the actions of CONA or the CONA Board. The Company faces the risk that a software solution beneficial to the Company is not approved by the CONA Board, requiring the Company to invest additional time and financial resources in developing a solution outside the CONA System to meet its requirements, or that the CONA Board makes decisions regarding CONA or the CONA System which may be different than decisions the Company would have made on its own behalf. Further, the Company remains obligated to pay service fees under the CONA MSA even if it is not using the CONA System for all or any portion of its distribution and manufacturing operations.. There is additional risk involved with the CONA System as the Company relies on CONA to make necessary upgrades and resolve ongoing or disaster-related technology issues with the CONA System and is limited in its authority and ability to timely resolve errors or make changes to the CONA software.. Miscalculation of the Company's need for infrastructure investment could impact the Company's financial results.. Significant changes from the Company's expected returns on cold drink equipment, fleet, technology and supply chain infrastructure investments could adversely affect the Company's consolidated financial results. Projected requirements for infrastructure investments may differ from actual levels if the Company does not achieve the sales volume growth it anticipates. The Company's infrastructure investments are generally long-term in nature; therefore, it is possible the investments made today may not generate the returns expected by the Company as a result of future changes in the marketplace. In addition, the Company faces risk in determining the level of infrastructure investment needed in territories and facilities recently acquired in the System Transformation. Any failure of the Company to adequately forecast these infrastructure investment requirements could reduce the profitability of the Company's operations.. Significant additional labeling or warning requirements may increase costs and inhibit sales of affected products.. The FDA occasionally proposes major changes to the nutrition labels required on all packaged foods and beverages, including those for most of the Company's products. Any pervasive nutrition label changes could increase the Company's costs and could inhibit sales of one or more of the Company's major products.. Certain nutrition label changes announced by the FDA in 2016, which were originally to become effective in July 2018, have been delayed until 2020 or later. These proposed changes will require the Company and its competitors to revise nutrition labels to include updated serving sizes, information about total calories in a beverage product container and information about any added sugars or nutrients.. 17. The Company's financial condition can be impacted by the stability of the general economy.. Unfavorable changes in general economic conditions in the geographic markets in which the Company does business may have the temporary effect of reducing the demand for certain of the Company's products. For example, economic forces may cause consumers to shift away from purchasing higher-margin products and packages sold through immediate consumption and other highly profitable channels. Adverse economic conditions could also increase the likelihood of customer delinquencies and bankruptcies, which would increase the risk of uncollectibility of certain accounts. Each of these factors could adversely affect the Company's overall financial condition and operating results.. The Company's capital structure, including its cash positions and debt borrowing capacity with banks or other financial institutions, exposes it to the risk of default by or failure of counterparty financial institutions. The risk of counterparty default or failure may be heightened during economic downturns and periods of uncertainty in the financial markets. If one of the Company's counterparties were to become insolvent or file for bankruptcy, the Company's ability to recover losses incurred as a result of default or to retrieve assets that are deposited or held in accounts with such counterparty may be limited by the counterparty's liquidity or the applicable laws governing the insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings and the Company's access to capital may be diminished. Any such event of default or failure could negatively impact the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. Changes in the Company's top customer relationships and marketing strategies could impact sales volume and revenues.. The Company faces concentration risks related to a few customers comprising a large portion of the Company's annual sales volume and net revenue. The Company's results of operations could be adversely affected if revenue from one or more of these significant customers is materially reduced or if the cost of complying with the customers' demands is significant. Additionally, if receivables from one or more of these significant customers become uncollectible, the Company's results of operations may be adversely impacted.. The Company's largest customers, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., The Kroger Company and Food Lion, LLC, accounted for approximately 35% of the Company's 2017 bottle/can sales volume to retail customers and approximately 24% of the Company's 2017 total net sales. These customers typically make purchase decisions based on a combination of price, product quality, consumer demand and customer service performance and generally do not enter into long-term contracts. The Company faces risks related to maintaining the volume demanded on a short-term basis from these customers, which can also divert resources away from other customers. The loss of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., The Kroger Company or Food Lion, LLC as a customer could have a material adverse effect on the operating and financial results of the Company.. Further, the Company's revenue is affected by promotion of the Company's products by significant customers, such as in-store displays created by customers or the promotion of the Company's products in customers' periodic advertising. If the Company's significant customers change the manner in which they market or promote the Company's products, or if the marketing efforts by significant customers become ineffective, the Company's sales volume and revenue could be adversely impacted.. The Company may not be able to respond successfully to changes in the marketplace.. The Company operates in the highly competitive nonalcoholic beverage industry and faces strong competition from other general and specialty beverage companies. The Company's response to continued and increased customer and competitor consolidations and marketplace competition may result in lower than expected net pricing of the Company's products. The Company's ability to gain or maintain the Company's share of sales or gross margins may be limited by the actions of the Company's competitors, which may have advantages in setting prices due to lower raw material costs.. Competitive pressures in the markets in which the Company operates may cause channel and product mix to shift away from more profitable channels and packages. If the Company is unable to maintain or increase volume in higher-margin products and in packages sold through higher-margin channels such as immediate consumption, pricing and gross margins could be adversely affected. Any related efforts by the Company to improve pricing may result in lower than expected sales volume.. In addition, the Company's sales of finished goods to CCNA and other U.S. Coca - Cola bottlers are governed by the RMA, pursuant to which the prices, or certain elements of the formulas used to determine the prices, for such finished goods are unilaterally established by CCNA from time to time, which could have an adverse impact on the Company's profitability.. The reliance on purchased finished goods from external sources could have an adverse impact on the Company's profitability.. The Company does not, and does not plan to, manufacture all products it distributes and, therefore, remains reliant on purchased finished goods from external sources to meet customer demand. As a result, the Company is subject to incremental risk including, but. 18. not limited to, product quality and availability, price variability and production capacity shortfalls for externally purchased finished goods, which could have an impact on the Company's profitability and customer relationships. In most instances, the Company's ability to negotiate the prices at which it purchases finished goods from other U.S. Coca - Cola bottlers is limited pursuant to CCNA's right to unilaterally establish the prices, or certain elements of the formulas used to determine the prices, for such finished goods under the RMA, which could have an adverse impact on the Company's profitability.. The decisions made by the NPSG regarding product sourcing, product and packaging infrastructure and strategic investment and divestment may be different than decisions that would have been made by the Company individually. Any failure of the NPSG to function efficiently could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. The Company is a member of the NPSG, which consists of The Coca - Cola Company, the Company and other RPBs in The Coca - Cola Company's national product supply system, each of which has a representative on the NPSG Board. Pursuant to the NPSG Governance Agreement, the Company has agreed to abide by decisions made by the NPSG Board, which include decisions regarding strategic investment and divestment, optimal national product supply sourcing and new product or packaging infrastructure planning. Although the Company has a representative on the NPSG Board, the Company cannot exercise sole decision-making authority relating to the decisions of the NPSG Board, and the interests of other members of the NPSG Board may diverge from those of the Company. For example, the NPSG Board may require the Company to make investments in its manufacturing assets, subject to certain limitations and consistent with the NPSG Governance Agreement, which the Company would not have chosen to make on its own.. Decreases from historic levels of marketing funding provided to the Company from The Coca - Cola Company and other Beverage Companies could reduce the Company's profitability.. The Coca - Cola Company and other Beverage Companies have historically provided financial support to the Company through marketing funding. In 2017, the Company received $120.1 million in marketing funding. While the Company does not believe there will be significant changes to the amount of marketing funding support by the Beverage Companies, there can be no assurance the historic levels will continue. Decreases in the level of marketing funding provided, material changes in the marketing funding programs' performance requirements or the Company's inability to meet the performance requirements for marketing funding could adversely affect the Company's profitability.. Changes in The Coca - Cola Company's and other Beverage Companies' levels of external advertising, marketing spending and product innovation could reduce the Company's sales volume.. The Coca - Cola Company and other Beverage Companies have their own external advertising campaigns, marketing spending and product innovation programs, which directly impact the Company's operations. Decreases in marketing, advertising and product innovation spending by the Beverage Companies, or advertising campaigns that are negatively perceived by the public, could adversely impact the sales volume growth and profitability of the Company. While the Company does not believe there will be significant changes in the level of external advertising and marketing spending by the Beverage Companies, there can be no assurance historic levels will continue in the future. The Company's volume growth is also dependent on product innovation by the Beverage Companies, especially The Coca - Cola Company, and their ability to develop and introduce products that meet consumer preferences.. The Company's inability to meet requirements under its beverage agreements could result in the loss of distribution and manufacture rights.. Approximately 93% of the Company's bottle/can sales volume to retail customers in 2017 consisted of products of The Coca - Cola Company, which is the sole supplier of these products or the concentrates and syrups required to manufacture these products. Under the CBA and the RMA, which authorize the Company to distribute and/or manufacture products of The Coca - Cola Company, and pursuant to the Company's distribution agreements with other Beverage Companies, the Company must satisfy various requirements, such as making minimum capital expenditures or maintaining certain performance rates. Failure to satisfy these requirements could result in the loss of distribution and manufacture rights for the respective products under one or more of these beverage agreements. The occurrence of other events defined in these agreements could also result in the termination of one or more beverage agreements.. The RMA also requires the Company to provide and sell covered beverages to other U.S. Coca - Cola bottlers at prices established pursuant to the RMA. As the timing and quantity of such requests by other U.S. Coca - Cola bottlers can be unpredictable, any failure by the Company to adequately plan for such demand could also constrain the Company's supply chain network.. 19. Changes in the Company's level of debt, borrowing costs and credit ratings could impact access to capital and credit markets, restrict the Company's operating flexibility and limit the Company's ability to obtain additional financing to fund future needs.. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had $1.13 billion of debt and capital lease obligations. The Company's level of debt requires a substantial portion of future cash flows from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest, which reduces funds available for other purposes. The Company's debt level can negatively impact its operations by:. •  limiting the Company's ability to, and/or increasing its cost to, access credit markets for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;. •  increasing the Company's vulnerability to economic downturns and adverse industry conditions by limiting the Company's ability to react to changing economic and business conditions; and. •  exposing the Company to increased risk that a significant decrease in cash flows from operations could make it difficult for the Company to meet its debt service requirements and to comply with financial covenants in its debt agreements.. The Company's revolving credit facility, term loan facility and pension and postretirement medical benefits are subject to changes in interest rates. If interest rates increase in the future, the Company's borrowing costs could increase, which could result in a reduction of the Company's overall profitability and limit the Company's ability to spend in other areas. Further, a decline in the interest rates used to discount the Company's pension and postretirement medical liabilities could increase the cost of these benefits and increase the total liabilities.. The Company's credit ratings could be significantly impacted by the Company's operating performance, changes in the methodologies used by rating agencies to assess the Company's credit ratings and by changes in The Coca - Cola Company's credit ratings. Lower credit ratings could significantly increase the Company's interest costs or adversely affect the Company's ability to obtain additional financing at acceptable interest rates or refinance existing debt.. Failure to attract, train and retain qualified employees while controlling labor costs, as well as other labor issues, including a failure to renegotiate collective bargaining agreements, could have an adverse effect on the Company's profitability.. The Company's future growth and performance depends on its ability to attract, hire, train, develop, motivate and retain a highly skilled, diverse and properly credentialed workforce. The Company's ability to meet its labor needs while controlling labor costs is subject to many external factors, including competition for and availability of qualified personnel in a given market, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage laws, health and other insurance costs and changes in employment and labor laws or other workplace regulations. Any unplanned turnover or unsuccessful implementation of the Company's succession plans could deplete the Company's institutional knowledge base and erode its competitive advantage or result in increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect the Company's reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations.. The Company uses various insurance structures to manage costs related to workers' compensation, auto liability, medical and other insurable risks. These structures consist of retentions, deductibles, limits and a diverse group of insurers that serve to strategically transfer and mitigate the financial impact of losses. The Company uses commercial insurance as a risk reduction strategy to minimize catastrophic losses from claims. Losses are accrued using assumptions and procedures followed in the insurance industry, then adjusted for company-specific history and expectations. Although the Company has actively sought to control increases in these costs, there can be no assurance the Company will succeed in limiting future cost increases, which could reduce the profitability of the Company's operations.. In addition, the Company's profitability is substantially affected by the cost of pension retirement benefits, postretirement medical benefits and current employees' medical benefits. Macro-economic factors beyond the Company's control, including increases in health care costs, declines in investment returns on pension assets and changes in discount rates used to calculate pension and related liabilities could result in significant increases in these costs for the Company. Although the Company has actively sought to control increases in these costs, there can be no assurance the Company will succeed in limiting future cost increases, which could reduce the profitability of the Company's operations.. Approximately 14% of the Company's employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Any inability by the Company to renegotiate subsequent agreements with labor unions on satisfactory terms and conditions could result in work interruptions or stoppages, which could have a material impact on the Company's profitability. In addition, the terms and conditions of existing or renegotiated agreements could increase costs or otherwise affect the Company's ability to fully implement operational changes to improve overall efficiency.. 20. Changes in the inputs used to calculate the Company's acquisition related contingent consideration liability could have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial results.. The Company's acquisition related contingent consideration liability, which was $381.3 million as of December 31, 2017, consists of the estimated amounts due to The Coca - Cola Company under the CBA over the remaining useful life of the related distribution rights. Changes in business conditions or other events could materially change both the projection of future cash flows and the discount rate used in the calculation of the fair value of contingent consideration under the CBA. These changes could materially impact the fair value of the related contingent consideration and could materially impact the amount of noncash expense (or income) recorded each reporting period.. Changes in tax laws, disagreements with tax authorities or additional tax liabilities could have a material impact on the Company's financial results.. The Company is subject to income taxes within the United States. The Company's annual income tax rate is based upon the Company's income, federal tax laws and various state and local tax laws within the jurisdictions in which the Company operates. Changes in federal, state or local income tax rates and changes in federal, state or local tax laws could have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial results.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"Tax Act\") was signed into law and significantly reformed the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Shortly after the Tax Act was enacted, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued guidance under Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, Income Tax Accounting Implications of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"SAB 118\") to address the application of GAAP and direct taxpayers to consider the impact of the Act as \"provisional\" when a registrant does not have the necessary information available, prepared or analyzed (including computations) in reasonable detail to complete the accounting for the change in tax law. In accordance with SAB 118, the Company has recognized the provisional tax impacts, outlined above, related to the re-measurement of its net deferred tax liability. The ultimate impact may differ from the provisional amounts, possibly materially, due to, among other things, the significant complexity of the Tax Act, anticipated additional regulatory guidance or related interpretations that may be issued by the Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\"), changes in accounting standards, legislative actions, future actions by states within the U.S. and changes in estimate, analysis, interpretations and assumptions the Company has made.. Excise or other taxes imposed on the sale of certain of the Company's products by the federal government and certain state and local governments, particularly if the taxes were incorporated into shelf prices and passed along to consumers, could cause consumers to shift away from purchasing products of the Company, which could materially affect the Company's business and financial results.. In addition, an assessment of additional taxes resulting from audits of the Company's tax filings could have an adverse impact on the Company's profitability, cash flows and financial condition.. Litigation or legal proceedings could expose the Company to significant liabilities and damage the Company's reputation.. The Company is from time to time a party to various lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business, including, but not limited to, litigation claims and legal proceedings arising out of its advertising and marketing practices, product claims and labels, intellectual property and commercial disputes, and environmental and employment matters. With respect to all such lawsuits, claims and proceedings, the Company records reserves when it is probable a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Although the Company does not believe a material amount of loss in excess of recorded amounts is reasonably possible as a result of these claims, the Company faces risk of an adverse effect on its results of operations, financial position or cash flows, depending on the outcome of the legal proceedings.. Natural disasters, changing weather patterns and unfavorable weather could negatively impact the Company's future profitability.. Natural disasters or unfavorable weather conditions in the geographic regions in which the Company or its suppliers operate could have an adverse impact on the Company's revenue and profitability. For instance, unusually cold or rainy weather during the summer months may have a temporary effect on the demand for the Company's products and contribute to lower sales, which could adversely affect the Company's profitability for such periods. Prolonged drought conditions could lead to restrictions on water use, which could adversely affect the Company's cost and ability to manufacture and distribute products. Hurricanes or similar storms may have a negative sourcing impact or cause shifts in product mix to lower-margin products and packages.. Changing weather patterns, along with the increased frequency or duration of extreme weather and climate events, could impact some of the Company's facilities or the availability and cost of key raw materials used by the Company in production. In addition, legislative and regulatory initiatives proposed by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency could directly or indirectly affect the. 21. Company's production, distribution and packaging, and the cost of raw materials, fuel, ingredients and water, which could adversely impact the Company's profitability.. Provisions in the CBA and the RMA with The Coca - Cola Company could delay or prevent a change in control of the Company and a sale of the Company's Coca - Cola distribution or manufacturing businesses.. Provisions in the CBA and the RMA require the Company to obtain The Coca - Cola Company's prior approval of a potential buyer of the Company's Coca - Cola distribution or manufacturing businesses, which could delay or prevent a change in control of the Company or the Company's ability to sell such businesses. The Company can obtain a list of approved third-party buyers from The Coca - Cola Company annually. In addition, the Company can seek buyer-specific approval from The Coca - Cola Company upon receipt of a third party offer to purchase the Company or its Coca - Cola related businesses.. The concentration of the Company's capital stock ownership with the Harrison family limits other stockholders' ability to influence corporate matters.. Members of the Harrison family, including the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, J. Frank Harrison, III, beneficially own shares of Common Stock and Class B Common Stock representing approximately 86% of the total voting power of the Company's outstanding capital stock. In addition, three members of the Harrison family, including Mr. Harrison, serve on the Company's Board of Directors.. As a result, members of the Harrison family have the ability to exert substantial influence or actual control over the Company's management and affairs and over substantially all matters requiring action by the Company's stockholders. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control otherwise favored by the Company's other stockholders and could depress the stock price or limit other stockholders' ability to influence corporate matters, which could result in the Company making decisions that stockholders outside the Harrison family may not view as beneficial."
