[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. The Company's results of operations, cash flows and operating costs are highly dependent upon the market prices of silver and gold, and, following the Silvertip acquisition, other commodities including zinc and lead, which are volatile and beyond the Company's control.. Silver, gold, zinc and lead are actively traded commodities, and their prices are volatile. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2017, the price of silver ranged from a low of  $15.22 per ounce to a high of $18.56 per ounce, the price of gold ranged from a low of $1,151 per ounce to a high of $1,346 per ounce, the price of zinc ranged from a low of $1.10 per pound to a high of $1.53 per pound, and the price of lead ranged from a low of $0.91 per pound to a high of $1.17 per pound. The closing market prices of silver, gold, zinc and lead on February 5, 2018 were $16.88 per ounce, $1,334 per ounce, $1.63 per pound, and $1.21 per pound, respectively.. Silver, gold, zinc and lead prices are affected by many factors beyond the Company's control, including U.S. dollar strength or weakness, speculation, global currency values, the price of products that incorporate silver, gold, zinc or lead, global and regional demand and production, political and economic conditions and other factors. In addition, Exchange Traded Funds (\"ETFs\"), which have substantially facilitated the ability of large and small investors to buy and sell precious metals and base metals, have become significant holders of gold, silver, zinc and lead. Silver and gold prices are also affected by prevailing interest rates and returns on other asset classes, expectations regarding inflation and governmental decisions regarding precious metals stockpiles.. Because the Company derives a significant portion of its revenues from sales of silver and gold and, to a lesser extent, zinc and lead as a result of the Silvertip acquisition during the fourth quarter of 2017, its results of operations and cash flows will fluctuate as the prices of these metals change. A period of significant and sustained lower gold and silver prices and, to a lesser extent, zinc and lead prices, would materially and adversely affect the Company's results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, if market prices for silver, gold, zinc and lead decline and remain at lower levels for a sustained period of time, the Company may have to revise its operating plans, including reducing operating costs and capital expenditures, terminating or suspending mining operations at one or more of its properties and discontinuing certain exploration and development plans. The Company may be unable to decrease its costs in an amount sufficient to offset reductions in revenues, and may continue to incur losses.. Operating costs at the Company's mines are also affected by the price of input commodities, such as fuel, electricity, labor, chemical reagents, explosives, steel and concrete. Prices for these input commodities are volatile and can fluctuate due to conditions that are difficult to predict, including global competition for resources, currency fluctuations, consumer or industrial demand and other factors. Continued volatility in the prices of commodities and other supplies the Company purchases could lead to higher costs, which would adversely affect results of operations and cash flows.. The Company's future growth will depend upon its ability to develop new mines, either through exploration at existing properties or by acquisition of other mining companies.. Because mines have limited lives based on proven and probable ore reserves, the Company's ability to achieve significant additional growth in revenues and cash flows will depend upon success in further developing existing properties and the opportunistic acquisition or development of new mining properties, such as the Company's recent Silvertip acquisition.. While initial development of the Palmarejo, Rochester, and Kensington mines has been substantially completed, development work continues to expand these mines while leveraging existing infrastructure.  In addition, the Company has acquired several mining properties in recent years, namely, the Silvertip silver-zinc-lead mine, the Wharf gold mine and the properties held by Paramount Gold & Silver Corp. which are now part of the Palmarejo complex, and has significantly expanded its near-mine exploration program. The Company cannot assure that it will be able to successfully expand and develop existing or new mining properties or acquire additional mining properties on favorable economic terms or at all.. The Company regularly evaluates and engages in discussions or negotiations regarding acquisition opportunities. Any transactions that the Company contemplates or pursues would involve risks and uncertainties.  There can be no assurance with respect to the timing, likelihood or business effect of any possible transaction.. 13. The Company may be unable to successfully integrate the recently acquired Silvertip mine or other acquisitions.. There can be no assurance that the anticipated benefits of the recently completed acquisition of the Silvertip mine in British Columbia, Canada, or any future acquisition, will be realized. The success of this and any other acquisition will depend upon the Company's ability to effectively manage the integration and operations of entities or properties it acquires and to realize other anticipated benefits. The process of managing acquired businesses may involve unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of management resources, which may divert management's focus and resources from other strategic opportunities and from operational matters during this process.. In addition to the above, any acquisition would be accompanied by risks, including:. • a significant change in commodity or stock prices after the Company has committed to complete the transaction and established the purchase price or exchange ratio;. • a material ore body may prove to be below expectations;. • difficulties integrating and assimilating the operations and personnel of any acquired companies, realizing anticipated synergies and maximizing the financial and strategic position of the combined enterprise, and maintaining uniform standards, policies and controls across the organization; and. • the acquired business or assets may have unknown liabilities which may be significant.. In addition, the Silvertip acquisition was funded, in part, with funds drawn under the Company's revolving credit facility, resulting in increased interest expense. In connection with any future acquisition, the Company may incur indebtedness or issue equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, resulting in increased interest expense, or dilution of the percentage ownership of existing stockholders. The Company cannot predict the impact of future acquisitions on the price of its common stock, or assure that it would be able to obtain any necessary financing on acceptable terms. Unprofitable acquisitions, or additional indebtedness or issuances of securities in connection with such acquisitions or any mine development, may negatively affect results of operations.. Finally, the Company's systems, procedures and controls may be inadequate to support the expansion of our operations resulting from an acquisition or development of a new mine. The Company's future operating results could be affected by the ability of its officers and key employees to manage the changing business conditions and to integrate an acquired business or new operation into Coeur. There may also be liabilities, such as environmental liabilities, or significant capital expenditures that the Company failed to discover or have underestimated in connection with any acquisition or development. Any such liabilities or capital expenditure requirements could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition or future prospects.. The Company is an international company and is exposed to political and social risks associated with its foreign operations.. A significant portion of the Company's revenues are generated by operations outside the United States. Exploration, development, production and closure activities in many countries are potentially subject to heightened political and social risks that are beyond the Company's control and could result in increased costs, capacity constraints and potential disruptions to the Company's business. These risks include the possible unilateral cancellation or forced renegotiation of contracts in which the Company, directly or indirectly, may have an interest, unfavorable changes in foreign laws and regulations, royalty and tax increases (including taxes associated with the import or export of goods), risks associated with the value-added tax (\"VAT\") and income tax refund recovery and collection process, claims by governmental entities or indigenous communities, expropriation or nationalization of property and other risks arising out of foreign sovereignty over areas in which our operations are conducted. The right to import and export silver and gold may depend on obtaining certain licenses and quotas, which could be delayed or denied at the discretion of the relevant regulatory authorities, or could become subject to new taxes or duties imposed by U.S. or foreign jurisdictions, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, or future prospects. In addition, the Company's rights under local law may be less secure in countries where judicial systems are susceptible to manipulation and intimidation by government agencies, non-governmental organizations or civic groups.. Any of these developments could require the Company to curtail or terminate operations at its mines, incur significant costs to renegotiate contracts, meet newly-imposed environmental or other standards, pay greater royalties or higher prices for labor or services and recognize higher taxes, or experience significant delays or obstacles in the recovery of VAT or income tax refunds owed, which could materially and adversely affect financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. These risks may be higher in developing countries in which the Company may expand its exploration for and development of mineral deposits. Potential operations in these areas increase the Company's exposure to risks of war, local economic conditions, political disruption, civil disturbance and governmental policies that may disrupt its operations.. 14. The Company's ongoing and future success depends on developing and maintaining productive relationships with the communities, including indigenous peoples who may have rights or may assert rights to certain of the Company's properties, and other stakeholders in its operating locations. The Company believes its operations can provide valuable benefits to surrounding communities, in terms of direct employment, training and skills development and other benefits associated with ongoing payment of taxes. In addition, the Company seeks to maintain its partnerships and relationships with local communities, including indigenous peoples, and stakeholders in a variety of ways, including in-kind contributions, volunteer time, sponsorships and donations. Notwithstanding the Company's ongoing efforts, local communities and stakeholders can become dissatisfied with its activities or the level of benefits provided, which may result in legal or administrative proceedings, civil unrest, protests, direct action or campaigns against it. Any such occurrences could materially and adversely affect the Company's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The Company's operations outside the United States also expose it to economic and operational risks.. The Company's operations outside the United States also expose it to economic and operational risks. Local economic conditions can cause shortages of skilled workers and supplies, increase costs and adversely affect the security of operations. In addition, higher incidences of criminal activity and violence in the area of some of the Company's foreign operations, including drug-cartel related violence in Mexico, could adversely affect the Company's ability to operate in an optimal fashion and may impose greater risks of theft and greater risks as to personnel and property security.  These conditions could lead to lower productivity and higher costs, which would adversely affect results of operations and cash flows.. In addition, acts of civil disobedience are common in certain of the countries where the Company's operations are located. In recent years, many mining companies have been the targets of actions to restrict their legally-entitled access to mining concessions or property. Such acts of civil disobedience often occur with no warning and can result in significant direct and indirect costs. The Company cannot provide assurance that there will be no disruptions to site access in the future, which could adversely affect the Company's business.. The Company sells silver and gold doré, gold concentrate, and expects to sell its silver, zinc and lead concentrates in U.S. dollars, but it conducts operations outside the United States in local currency. Currency exchange movements could also adversely affect the Company's results of operations.. The estimation of ore reserves is imprecise and depends upon subjective factors. Estimated ore reserves may not be realized in actual production. The Company's results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected by inaccurate estimates.. The ore reserve figures presented in the Company's public filings are estimates made by the Company's technical personnel and independent mining consultants with whom the Company contracts. Reserve estimates are a function of geological and engineering analyses that require the Company to make assumptions about production costs, recoveries and silver, gold, zinc and lead market prices. Reserve estimation is an imprecise and subjective process. The accuracy of such estimates is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation, judgment and experience. Assumptions about silver, gold, zinc and lead market prices are subject to great uncertainty as those prices fluctuate widely and have fallen significantly at times over the past several years. Declines in the market prices of silver, gold, zinc or lead may render reserves containing relatively lower grades of ore uneconomic to exploit, and the Company may be required to reduce reserve estimates, discontinue development or mining at one or more of its properties or write down assets as impaired. Should the Company encounter mineralization or geologic formations at any of its mines or projects different from those predicted, it may adjust its reserve estimates and alter its mining plans. Either of these alternatives may adversely affect actual production and financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The Company's estimates of future production, costs, and financial results are imprecise, depend upon subjective factors, may not be realized in actual production and such estimates speak only as of their respective dates.. The Company has in the past, and may in the future, provide estimates and projections of its future production, costs and financial results. Any such information is forward-looking. Neither the Company's independent registered public accounting firm nor any other independent expert or outside party compiles or examines these forward-looking statements and, accordingly, no such person expresses any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect thereto. Such estimates are made by the Company's management and technical personnel and are qualified by, and subject to the assumptions, contained or referred in the filing, release or presentation in which they are made, including assumptions about the availability, accessibility, sufficiency and quality of mineralized material, the Company's costs of production, the market prices of silver, gold, zinc and lead, the Company's ability to sustain and increase production levels, the sufficiency of its infrastructure, the performance of its personnel and equipment, its ability to maintain and obtain mining interests and permits, the state of government and community relations, and its compliance with existing and future laws and regulations. The Company sometimes states possible outcomes as high and low ranges which. 15. are intended to provide a sensitivity analysis as variables are changed but are not intended to represent that actual results could not fall outside of the suggested ranges. Actual results and experience may differ materially from these assumptions. Any such production, cost, or financial results estimates speak only as of the date on which they are made, and the Company disclaims any intent or obligation to update such estimates, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Accordingly, these forward-looking statements should be considered in the context in which they are made and undue reliance should not be placed on them.. The Company's future operating performance may not generate cash flows sufficient to meet debt payment obligations.. As of February 5, 2018, the Company had approximately $411.3 million of outstanding indebtedness. The Company's ability to make scheduled debt payments on outstanding indebtedness will depend on future results of operations and cash flows. The Company's results of operations and cash flows, in part, are subject to economic factors beyond its control, including the market prices of silver, gold, zinc and lead. The Company may not be able to generate enough cash flow to meet obligations and commitments under outstanding debt instruments. If the Company cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service debt, it may need to further refinance debt, dispose of assets or issue equity to obtain the necessary funds.. If the Company's cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund its debt service obligations, the Company could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance its indebtedness. The Company cannot predict whether it would be able to refinance debt, issue equity or dispose of assets to raise funds on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms. In a rising interest rate environment, the costs of borrowing additional funds or refinancing outstanding indebtedness would also be expected to increase. The agreements governing the Company's outstanding indebtedness restrict the Company's ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from those dispositions and may also restrict its ability to raise debt or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due. The Company may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations then due. If the Company raises additional funds by issuing equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, holders of its common stock could experience significant dilution of their ownership interest, and these securities could have rights senior to those of the holders of common stock.. The terms of the Company's debt impose restrictions on its operations.. The agreements governing the Company's outstanding indebtedness include a number of significant negative covenants. These covenants, among other things:. • limit the Company's ability to obtain additional financing, repurchase outstanding equity or issue debt securities;. • require the Company to meet certain financial covenants consisting of a consolidated net leverage ratio and a consolidated interest coverage ratio;. • require a portion of the Company's cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;. • limit the Company's ability to sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of assets, enter into transactions with and invest capital in affiliates, enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends, consolidate, amalgamate, merge or sell all or substantially all of the Company's assets;. • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • limit the Company's flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the industry in which we compete; and. • place the Company at a disadvantage compared to other, less leveraged competitors.. A breach of any of these covenants could result in an event of default under the applicable agreement governing the Company's outstanding indebtedness that, if not cured or waived, could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to the debt to be due and payable immediately. Acceleration of any debt could result in cross-defaults under the Company's other debt instruments. The Company's assets and cash flow may be insufficient to repay borrowings fully under all of its outstanding debt instruments if any of its debt instruments are accelerated upon an event of default, which could force the Company into bankruptcy or liquidation.. 16. Any downgrade in the credit ratings assigned to the Company or its debt securities could increase future borrowing costs, adversely affect the availability of new financing and may result in increased collateral requirements under the Company's existing surety bond portfolio.. There can be no assurance that any rating currently assigned by Standard & Poor's Rating Services or Moody's Investors Service to the Company or its debt securities will remain unchanged for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered if, in that rating agency's judgment, future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating so warrant. If the Company is unable to maintain its outstanding debt and financial ratios at levels acceptable to the credit rating agencies, or should the Company's business prospects or financial results deteriorate, including as a result of declines in silver and gold prices or other factors beyond our control, our ratings could be downgraded by the rating agencies. A downgrade by the rating agencies could adversely affect the value of the Company's outstanding debt securities, its existing debt, and its ability to obtain new financing on favorable terms, if at all, increase borrowing costs, and may result in increased collateral requirements under the Company's existing surety bond portfolio, which in turn may adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial position.. The Company's business is subject to U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws, a breach or violation of which could lead to civil and criminal fines and penalties, loss of licenses or permits and reputational harm.. The Company operates in certain jurisdictions that have experienced governmental and private sector corruption to some degree. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or other commercial advantage. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could lead to civil and criminal fines and penalties, litigation, and loss of operating licenses or permits, and may damage the Company's reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial position and results of operations. The Company's Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and other corporate policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws; however, there can be no assurance that the Company's internal control policies and procedures always will protect it from recklessness, fraudulent behavior, dishonesty or other inappropriate acts committed by the Company's affiliates, employees or agents. As such, the Company's corporate policies and processes may not prevent all potential breaches of law or other governance practices.. A significant delay or disruption in sales of concentrates as a result of the unexpected discontinuation of purchases by smelters could have a material adverse effect on results of operations.. The Company currently sells its gold concentrates from the Kensington mine to one third-party smelter in China. The loss of this smelter could have a material adverse effect on the Company if alternative smelters are unavailable. The Company cannot ensure that alternative smelters would be available or offer comparable terms if the need for them were to arise or that it would not experience delays or disruptions in sales that would materially and adversely affect results of operations.. There are significant hazards associated with mining activities, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance.. The mining business is subject to risks and hazards, including environmental hazards, industrial accidents, the encountering of unusual or unexpected geological formations, cave-ins, flooding, earthquakes and periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions. These occurrences could result in damage to, or destruction of, mineral properties or production facilities, personal injury or death, environmental damage, reduced production and delays in mining, asset write-downs, monetary losses and possible legal liability.. Insurance fully covering many environmental risks, including potential liability for pollution or other hazards as a result of disposal of waste products occurring from exploration and production, is not generally available. Any liabilities that the Company incurs for these risks and hazards could be significant and could adversely affect results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. The Company is subject to significant governmental regulations, including the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act, and related costs and delays may negatively affect its business.. Mining activities are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing environmental protection, natural resources, prospecting, development, production, post-closure reclamation, taxes, labor standards and occupational health and safety laws and regulations, including mine safety, toxic substances and other matters. The costs associated with compliance with such laws and regulations are substantial. Changes in existing laws (including recent changes to U.S. tax laws), possible future laws and regulations, or more restrictive interpretations of current laws and regulations by governmental authorities, could cause additional expense, capital expenditures, restrictions on or suspensions of operations and delays in the development of new properties.. 17. U.S. surface and underground mines like the Kensington, Rochester and Wharf mines are continuously inspected by the U.S. Mine Safety and Health Administration (\"MSHA\"), which inspections often lead to notices of violation. Recently, MSHA has been conducting more frequent and more comprehensive inspections of mining operations in general.. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permitting requirements may result in enforcement actions, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities causing operations to cease or be curtailed, which may require corrective measures including capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment or remedial actions. In addition, any of the Company's U.S. mines could be subject to a temporary or extended shutdown as a result of a violation alleged by MSHA. Parties engaged in mining operations or in the exploration or development of mineral properties may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of the mining activities and may be subject to civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed for violations of applicable laws or regulations. Any such penalties, fines, sanctions or shutdowns could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations.. Compliance with environmental regulations and litigation based on environmental regulations could require significant expenditures.. Environmental regulations mandate, among other things, the maintenance of air and water quality standards, land development and land reclamation, and set forth limitations on the generation, transportation, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous waste. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner that may require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects, and a heightened degree of responsibility for mining companies and their officers, directors and employees. The Company may incur environmental costs that could have a material adverse effect on financial condition and results of operations. Any failure to remedy an environmental problem could require it to suspend operations or enter into interim compliance measures pending completion of the required remedy. The environmental standards that ultimately may be imposed at a mine site affect the cost of remediation and could exceed the financial accruals that the Company has made for such remediation. The potential exposure may be significant and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. Moreover, governmental authorities and private parties may bring lawsuits based upon damage to property and injury to persons resulting from the environmental, health and safety impacts of prior and current operations, including operations conducted by other mining companies many years ago at sites located on properties that the Company currently or formerly owned. These lawsuits could lead to the imposition of substantial fines, remediation costs, penalties and other civil and criminal sanctions. Substantial costs and liabilities, including for restoring the environment after the closure of mines, are inherent in the Company's operations. The Company cannot assure that any such law, regulation, enforcement or private claim would not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Some of the mining wastes from the Company's U.S. mines currently are exempt to a limited extent from the extensive set of EPA regulations governing hazardous waste under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (\"RCRA\"). If the EPA were to repeal this exemption, and designate these mining wastes as hazardous under RCRA, the Company would be required to expend additional amounts on the handling of such wastes and to make significant expenditures to construct hazardous waste storage or disposal facilities. In addition, if any of these wastes causes contamination in or damage to the environment at a U.S. mining facility, that facility could be designated as a \"Superfund\" site under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (\"CERCLA\"). Under CERCLA, any present owner or operator of a Superfund site or the owner or operator at the time of contamination may be held jointly and severally liable regardless of fault, and may be forced to undertake extensive remedial cleanup action or to pay for the cleanup efforts. The owner or operator also may be liable to federal, state and tribal governmental entities for the cost of damages to natural resources, which could be substantial. Additional regulations or requirements also are imposed on the Company's tailings and waste disposal areas in Alaska under the federal Clean Water Act (\"CWA\"), in Nevada under the Nevada Water Pollution Control Law which implements the CWA, and in South Dakota under the South Dakota Water Pollution Control Act and the Administrative Rules of the State of South Dakota. In addition, proposed CERCLA regulations requiring mining companies to obtain supplemental financial assurance could, if adopted, have a material adverse effect on results of operations and cash flows.. Airborne emissions are subject to controls under air pollution statutes implementing the Clean Air Act in Nevada, Alaska and South Dakota. In addition, there are numerous legislative and regulatory initiatives related to climate change, reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, or energy policy and adoption of these initiatives through legislative actions or administrative policy could have a material adverse effect on results of operations and cash flows.. 18. In addition, U.S. environmental conservation efforts could result in the withdrawal of certain federal lands from mineral entry under the Mining Law, which could have the effect of restricting the Company's current or future planned activities involving its unpatented mining claims on the affected public lands.. The Company is required to obtain and renew governmental permits in order to conduct operations, a process which is often costly and time-consuming. The Company's ability to obtain necessary government permits to expand operations or begin new operations can be materially affected by third party activists.. In the normal course of its business, the Company is required to obtain and renew governmental permits for exploration, operations and expansion of existing operations and for the development of new projects. Obtaining and renewing governmental permits is a complex and time-consuming process. The timeliness and success of permitting efforts are contingent upon many variables not within the Company's control, including the interpretation of permit approval requirements administered by the applicable permitting authority. The Company may not be able to obtain or renew permits that are necessary to its operations or the cost and time required to obtain or renew permits may exceed the Company's expectations. Any unexpected delays or costs associated with the permitting process could delay the development or impede the operation of a mine, which in turn could materially adversely affect the Company's revenues and future growth. In addition, key permits and approvals may be revoked or suspended or may be changed in a manner that adversely affects the Company's operations.. Private parties such as environmental activists frequently attempt to intervene in the permitting process and to persuade regulators to deny necessary permits or seek to overturn permits that have been issued. Obtaining the necessary governmental permits is a complex and time-consuming process involving numerous jurisdictions and often involving public hearings and costly undertakings. These third party actions can materially increase the costs and cause delays in the permitting process and could cause the Company to not proceed with the development or expansion of a mine. In addition, the Company's ability to successfully obtain key permits and approvals to explore for, develop, operate and expand mines and to conduct its operations will likely depend on the Company's ability to develop, operate, expand and close mines in a manner that is consistent with the creation of social and economic benefits in the surrounding communities, which may or may not be required by law. The Company's ability to obtain permits and approvals and to successfully operate in particular communities may be adversely impacted by real or perceived detrimental events associated with its activities or those of other mining companies affecting the environment, human health and safety of communities in which it operates.. If future permitting applications or amendments are not approved on a timely basis or at all, or if the permitting process is delayed for any reason, including to address public comments, the Company's plans for continued operations and future growth could be materially adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. Significant investment risks and operational costs are associated with exploration and development activities. These risks and costs may result in lower economic returns and may adversely affect the Company's business.. The Company's ability to sustain or increase its present production levels depends in part on successful exploration and development of new ore bodies and expansion of existing mining operations. Substantial expenditures are required to establish ore reserves, to extract metals from ores and, in the case of new properties, to construct mining and processing facilities.. Mineral exploration, particularly for silver and gold, involves many risks and is frequently unproductive. Even if mineral deposits are found, those deposits may be insufficient in quantity and quality to return a profit from production, or it may take a number of years until production is possible, during which time the economic viability of the project may change. Few properties that are explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. The commercial viability of a mineral deposit, once developed, depends on a number of factors, including: the particular attributes of the deposit, such as size, grade and proximity to infrastructure; government regulations including taxes, royalties and land tenure; land use; importing and exporting of minerals; environmental protection; mineral prices; and issuance and maintenance of necessary permits.  Factors that affect adequacy of infrastructure include: reliability of roads, bridges, power sources and water supply; unusual or infrequent weather phenomena; sabotage; and government or other interference in the maintenance or provision of such infrastructure. All of these factors are highly cyclical. The exact effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted, but the combination may result in not receiving an adequate return on invested capital.. In addition, exploration projects, such as the Company's La Preciosa project, may have no operating history upon which to base estimates of future operating costs and capital requirements. Exploration project items such as estimates of reserves, metal recoveries and cash operating costs are to a large extent based upon the interpretation of geologic data, obtained from a limited number of drill holes and other sampling techniques, and feasibility studies. Estimates of cash operating costs are then derived based upon anticipated tonnage and grades of ore to be mined and processed, the configuration of the ore body, expected recovery. 19. rates of metals from the ore, comparable facility and equipment costs, anticipated climate conditions and other factors. As a result, actual operating costs and economic returns of any and all exploration projects may materially differ from the costs and returns estimated, and accordingly, the Company's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be negatively affected.. The significant and sustained decline in gold and silver prices in recent years caused the Company to write down certain of its long-lived assets and, in the future, declines in relevant metal prices could cause one or more of the Company's mining properties to become less profitable, which could require the Company to record additional write-downs of long-lived assets. Such write-downs may adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. The Company reviews its long-lived assets for recoverability pursuant to the Financial Accounting Standard Board's Accounting Standards Codification Section 360. Under that standard, the Company reviews the recoverability of its long-lived assets, such as its mining properties, upon a triggering event. Such review involves the Company estimating the future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. Impairment, measured by comparing an asset's carrying value to its fair value, must be recognized when the carrying value of the asset exceeds these cash flows. The Company conducts a review of the financial performance of its mines in connection with the preparation of its financial statements for each reported period and determines whether any triggering events are indicated.. In prior years, the Company's assessment of the recoverability of its long-lived assets resulted in write-downs in the Company's Statement of Comprehensive Income (Loss) and reduced the carrying value of Mining properties and Property, plant, and equipment on the Company's balance sheet. See Note 4 -- Write-Downs in the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail.. If there are further significant and sustained declines in relevant metal prices, or if the Company fails to control production and operating costs or realize the mineable ore reserves at its mining properties, the Company may terminate or suspend mining operations at one or more of its properties. These events could require a further write-down of the carrying value of the Company's assets. Any such actions would adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. The Company may record other types of charges in the future if it sells a property for a price less than its carrying value or has to increase reclamation liabilities in connection with the closure and reclamation of a property. Any additional write-downs of mining properties could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. The Company's use of derivative contracts to protect against market price volatility exposes it to risk of opportunity loss, mark-to-market fair value adjustments and exposure to counterparty credit risk.. From time to time, the Company may enter into price risk management contracts to protect against fluctuations in the price of silver, gold, zinc and lead, foreign currency rates and changes in the prices of fuel and other input costs. These contracts could include forward sales or purchase contracts, futures contracts, purchased or sold put and call options and other derivative instruments.. The use of derivative instruments can expose the Company to risk of an opportunity loss and may also result in significant mark-to-market fair value adjustments, which may have a material adverse impact on reported financial results. The Company is exposed to credit risk with contract counterparties, including, but not limited to, sales contracts and derivative contracts. In the event of nonperformance in connection with a contract, the Company could be exposed to a loss of value for that contract.. Forward sales, royalty arrangements, and certain derivative instruments can result in limiting the Company's ability to take advantage of increased metal prices while increasing its exposure to lower metal prices.. The Company has in the past entered into, and may in the future enter into, arrangements under which it (or a mine acquired by the Company) has agreed to make royalty or similar payments to lenders or other third parties in amounts that are based on expected production and price levels for silver or gold. The Company enters into such arrangements when it concludes that they provide it with necessary capital to develop a specific mining property or to achieve other business objectives. Royalty or similar payment obligations, however, can limit the Company's ability to realize the full effects of rising gold or silver prices and may require the Company to make potentially significant cash payments if the mine fails to achieve specified minimum production levels.. 20. The Company is dependent upon information technology systems, which are subject to disruption, damage, failure and risks associated with implementation and integration.. The Company's information technology systems used in its operations are subject to disruption, damage or failure from a variety of sources, including, without limitation, computer viruses, security breaches, cyber-attacks, natural disasters and defects in design.  Cybersecurity incidents, in particular, are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and the corruption of data.  Various measures have been implemented to manage the Company's risks related to information technology systems and network disruptions. However, given the unpredictability of the timing, nature and scope of information technology disruptions, the Company could potentially be subject to production downtimes, operational delays, the compromising of confidential or otherwise protected information, destruction or corruption of data, security breaches, other manipulation or improper use of our systems and networks or financial losses from remedial actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on cash flows, financial condition or results of operations.. The Company could also be adversely affected by system or network disruptions if new or upgraded information technology systems are defective, not installed properly or not properly integrated into operations.  Various measures have been implemented to manage the risks related to the system implementation and modification, but system modification failures could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial position and results of operations.. The Company's business depends on good relations with, and the retention and hiring of, employees.. The Company may experience labor disputes, work stoppages or other disruptions in production that could adversely affect its business and results of operations. Labor disruptions may be used to advocate labor, political or social goals, particularly at non-U.S. mines. For example, labor disruptions may occur in sympathy with strikes or labor unrest in other sectors of local economies. During the past several years, two of the Company's mines have experienced work stoppages, each of which was resolved within a short period of time and had no material effect on results of operations or financial condition. The Company cannot assure that work stoppages or other disruptions will not occur in the future. Any such work stoppage or disruption could expose the Company to significant costs and have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations or financial condition.. At December 31, 2017, unions represented approximately 7% of the Company's global workforce, all of which were comprised of workers at the San Bartolomé mine in Bolivia. Manquiri has a labor agreement at the San Bartolomé mine which is in effect for 2018. The Company cannot predict whether this agreement will be renewed on similar terms or at all, whether future labor disruptions will occur or, if disruptions do occur, how long they will last.. We compete with other mining companies to attract and retain key executives, skilled labor, contractors and other employees. We may be unable to continue to attract and retain skilled and experienced employees, which could have an adverse effect on our competitive position or adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition.. Disputes regarding the Company's mining claims, concessions or surface rights to land in the vicinity of the Company's mining projects could adversely impact operations.. The validity of mining or exploration claims, concessions or rights, which constitute most of the Company's property holdings, is often uncertain and may be contested. The Company has used commercially reasonable efforts, in accordance with industry standard, to investigate its title or claims to its various properties, however, no assurance can be given that applicable governments will not revoke or significantly alter the conditions of the applicable exploration and mining claims, concessions or rights or that such exploration and mining claims, concessions or rights will not be challenged by third parties. Although the Company has attempted to acquire satisfactory title to undeveloped properties, in accordance with mining industry practice it does not generally obtain title opinions until a decision is made to develop a property. As a result, some titles, particularly titles to undeveloped properties may be defective. Defective title to any of the Company's exploration and mining claims, concessions or rights could result in litigation, insurance claims and potential losses affecting its business as a whole. There may be challenges to the title of any of the claims comprising the Company's projects that, if successful, could impair development and operations. A defect could result in the Company losing all or a portion of its right, title, estate and interest in and to the properties to which the title defect relates.. In Mexico, while mineral rights are administered by the federal government through federally issued mining concessions, federally recognized agrarian communities called ejidos control surface or surface access rights to the land. An ejido may sell or lease lands directly to a private entity. While the Company has agreements or is in the process of negotiating agreements with the ejidos that impact all of its projects in Mexico, some of these agreements may be subject to renegotiation.. 21. Continuation of the Company's mining operations is dependent on the availability of sufficient and affordable water supplies.. The Company's mining operations require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. In particular, the Company's properties in Mexico are in areas where water is scarce and competition among users for continuing access to water is significant. Continuous production and mine development is dependent on the Company's ability to acquire and maintain water rights and claims and to defeat claims adverse to current water uses in legal proceedings. Although each of the Company's operating mines currently has sufficient water rights and claims to cover its operational demands, the Company cannot predict the potential outcome of pending or future legal proceedings relating to water rights, claims and uses. Water shortages may also result from weather or environmental and climate impacts out of the Company's control, such as the drought conditions in Bolivia that have significantly negatively impacted 2017 operations at the San Bartolomé mine. Shortages in water supply could result in production and processing interruptions. In addition, the scarcity of water in certain regions could result in increased costs to obtain sufficient quantities of water to conduct the Company's operations. The loss of some or all water rights, in whole or in part, or ongoing shortages of water to which we have rights or significantly higher costs to obtain sufficient quantities of water (or the failure to procure sufficient quantities of water) could result in the Company's inability to maintain production at current or expected levels, require the Company to curtail or shut down mining production and could prevent the Company from pursuing expansion or development opportunities, which could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition. Laws and regulations may be introduced in some jurisdictions in which the Company operates which could also limit access to sufficient water resources, thus adversely affecting the Company's operations.. The Company is subject to litigation and may be subject to additional litigation in the future.. The Company is currently, and may in the future become, subject to other litigation, arbitration or proceedings with other parties. If decided adversely to the Company, these legal proceedings, or others that could be brought against the Company in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or prospects. For a more detailed discussion of pending litigation, see Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In the event of a dispute arising at the Company's foreign operations, the Company may be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of foreign courts or arbitral panels, or may not be successful in subjecting foreign persons to the jurisdiction of courts or arbitral panels in the United States. The Company's inability to enforce its rights and the enforcement of rights on a prejudicial basis by foreign courts or arbitral panels could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial position.. The Company has the ability to issue additional equity securities, including in connection with an acquisition of other companies, which would lead to dilution of its issued and outstanding common stock and may materially and adversely affect the price of its common stock.. The issuance of additional equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, whether to acquire new companies or businesses or for other strategic benefits, would result in dilution of the Company's existing stockholders' equity ownership. The Company is authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, 10.0 million shares of preferred stock in one or more series, to establish the number of shares to be included in each series and to fix the designation, powers, preferences and relative participating, optional, conversion and other special rights of the shares of each series as well as the qualification, limitations or restrictions on each series. Any series of preferred stock could contain dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption, redemption prices, liquidation preferences or other rights superior to the rights of holders of its common stock. If the Company issues additional equity securities, the price of its common stock may be materially and adversely affected.. Holders of our common stock may not receive dividends.. We have not historically declared cash dividends on our common stock. Holders of our common stock are entitled to receive only such dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. We are incorporated in Delaware and governed by the Delaware General Corporation Law. Delaware law allows a corporation to pay dividends only out of surplus, as determined under Delaware law or, if there is no surplus, out of net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend was declared and for the preceding fiscal year. Under Delaware law, however, we cannot pay dividends out of net profits if, after we pay the dividend, our capital would be less than the capital represented by the outstanding stock of all classes having a preference upon the distribution of assets. Our ability to pay dividends will be subject to our future earnings, capital requirements and financial condition, as well as our compliance with covenants related to existing or future indebtedness and would only be declared in the discretion of our Board of Directors.. The Company's operations in Bolivia are subject to political risks.. Until the Manquiri Divestiture closes, the Company remains subject to political risks associated with operating in Bolivia. In response to conflicts between local mining cooperatives and the Bolivian government, on September 1, 2016, the Bolivian. 22. government issued Supreme Decree No. 2891, and on October 24, 2016, Law 845, which impose tighter restrictions on mining cooperatives, including reversion of mining areas leased to the mining cooperatives by COMIBOL that are subject to joint venture agreements, leases or subleases with third parties to the Bolivian state. The Company's wholly-owned subsidiary, Manquiri is currently party to various JV Agreements with local cooperatives and has also entered in to mining contracts directly with COMIBOL (which are not impacted by the decree). Although Bolivian government officials have made public statements that the decree will not impact Manquiri's ability to continue operations in the areas subject to the JV Agreements and the JV Agreements continue to be formally in existence, any cancellation of leases between COMIBOL and the applicable mining cooperatives and/or the JV Agreements will require negotiation of and entry into contracts directly with COMIBOL to continue mining operations at the affected areas, which could have an adverse impact on financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In January 2017, an interim permit was granted to Manquiri allowing for continuation of mining operations in the areas subject to the JV Agreements pending negotiation of contracts directly with COMIBOL.. In addition, the potential effects of the Bolivian mining law enacted in 2014 remain uncertain until the regulations implementing the law are accompanied by a new contractual structure. The law regulates royalties and provides for mining contracts with the government rather than concession holding. The regulations promulgated under the new mining law may mandate a renegotiation of the terms of Manquiri's existing contracts with COMIBOL, this could materially adversely affect the profitability and cash flow of Manquiri's operations in Bolivia.. In addition, companies in Bolivia are also operating under Law No. 403 of September 18, 2013, and its regulatory Supreme Decree, which provides for the reversion of mining rights if the Ministry of Mines verifies that a person with mining rights has not initiated mining activities or developed the mining rights. The contracts with COMIBOL and the cooperatives are excluded from the application of Law No. 403. In April 2014, Manquiri was served by the Bolivian government with a reversion decision affecting nine mining rights wholly-owned by Manquiri. The affected area is not in an area of active mining by Manquiri and the Manquiri's San Bartolomé operations were not targeted as an area of interest in the decision since all of our past and current mining activity is performed through our contracts with COMIBOL and the mining cooperatives.. It is also uncertain if any new mining or investment policies or shifts in political attitude may affect mining in Bolivia."
