[1] "ITEM 1A:  RISK FACTORS. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face.  Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect our company in the future.  If any of these risks were to occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.  This section includes or refers to certain forward-looking statements.  We refer you to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on such forward-looking statements, appearing under the heading \"Forward-Looking Statements\" in Part II - Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. The loss of a large customer could have an adverse effect on our business.. Revenue from a single customer accounted for 21%, 19%, and 18% of total revenue in 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively.  Large customers may divert management's attention from other operational matters and pull resources from other areas of the business, resulting in potential loss of revenue from other customers.  In addition, large customers may receive preferred pricing and a higher level of post-sale support, which may lower our gross margin percentage.  Furthermore, we typically extend credit terms to large customers, resulting in large accounts receivable balances, and in certain instances due to long supplier lead times, we may purchase inventory in advance of receipt of a customer purchase order, which exposes us to an increased risk of excess or obsolete inventory and resulting charges.. In some cases, end customers of our resellers may be large consumers of our products.  Furthermore, there may be industry leaders that are able to exert purchasing power over their vendors' supply chains, particularly in the automotive and consumer electronics industries.  The loss of, or significant curtailment of purchases by, any one or more of our larger customers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. Global economic conditions may negatively impact our operating results.. Our revenue levels are impacted by global economic conditions, as we have a significant business presence in many countries throughout the world.  If global economic conditions were to deteriorate, our revenue and our ability to generate operating profits could be materially adversely affected.. As a result of global economic conditions, our business is subject to the following risks, among others:. • our customers may not have sufficient cash flow or access to financing to purchase our products,. • our customers may not pay us within agreed upon terms or may default on their payments altogether,. • our vendors may be unable to fulfill their delivery obligations to us in a timely manner,. • lower demand for our products may result in charges for excess and obsolete inventory if we are unable to sell inventory that is either already on hand or committed to purchase,. • lower cash flows may result in impairment charges for acquired intangible assets or goodwill,. • a decline in our stock price may make stock options a less attractive form of compensation and a less effective form of retention for our employees, and. • the trading price of our common stock may be volatile.. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had $828 million in cash and investments.  In addition, Cognex has no long-term debt and we do not anticipate needing debt financing in the near future.  We believe that our strong cash position. 6. Table of Contents. puts us in a relatively good position to weather economic downturns.  Nevertheless, our operating results have been materially adversely affected in the past, and could be materially adversely affected in the future, as a result of unfavorable economic conditions and reduced capital spending by manufacturers worldwide.. A downturn in the consumer electronics or automotive industries may adversely affect our business.. In 2017, the largest industries that we served in the factory automation market were the consumer electronics and automotive industries.  Our business is impacted by the level of capital spending in these industries, as well as the product design cycles of our major customers in these industries.  The market leaders in these industries are able to exert purchasing power over their vendors' supply chains, and our large customers in these industries may decide to purchase fewer products from Cognex or stop purchasing from Cognex altogether.  As a result, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected by declining sales in these industries.. Our inability to penetrate new markets may impede our revenue growth.. We are pursuing applications in the automatic identification market outside of the manufacturing sector, such as using ID products in logistics automation for package sorting and distribution.  As shipping volumes grow, more distribution centers are choosing to upgrade their traditional laser-based scanners to image-based barcode readers, which may cost-effectively increase package sorter efficiency and throughput by improving read rates.  Cognex has introduced image-based barcode readers in order to penetrate the ID logistics market and grow our ID Products business beyond the traditional manufacturing sector that we currently serve.  Our growth plan is dependent upon successfully penetrating the ID logistics market and we are making significant investments in this area.  Therefore, our failure to generate revenue in this new market in the amounts or within the time periods anticipated may have a material adverse impact on our revenue growth and operating results.. Economic, political, and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our business and operating results.. In 2017, approximately 76% of our revenue was derived from customers located outside of the United States.  We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue.  In addition, certain of our products are assembled by third-party contract manufacturers, primarily located in Indonesia.  We intend to continue to expand our sales and operations outside of the United States and expand our presence in international emerging markets.  As a result, our business is subject to the risks inherent in international sales and operations, including, among other things:. • various regulatory and statutory requirements,. • difficulties in injecting and repatriating cash,. • export and import restrictions,. • transportation delays,. • employment regulations and local labor conditions,. • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign sales operations,. • instability in economic or political conditions,. • difficulties protecting intellectual property,. • business systems connectivity issues, and. • potentially adverse tax consequences.. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and the use of derivative instruments to hedge these exposures could adversely affect our reported results, liquidity, and competitive position.. We face exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, as a significant portion of our revenues, expenses, assets, and liabilities are denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of our subsidiaries or the reporting currency of our company, which is the U.S. Dollar.  In certain instances, we utilize forward contracts to hedge against foreign currency fluctuations.  These contracts are used to minimize foreign currency gains or losses, as the gains or losses on the derivative are intended to offset the losses or gains on the underlying exposure. We do not engage in foreign currency speculation.  If the counterparty to any of our hedging arrangements experiences financial difficulties, or is otherwise unable to honor the terms of the contract, we may experience material losses.. Our foreign currency hedging program includes foreign currency cash flow hedges that protect our budgeted revenues and expenses against foreign currency exchange rate changes compared to our budgeted rates.  These derivatives. 7. Table of Contents. are designated for hedge accounting, and therefore, the effective portion of the forward contract's gain or loss is reported in shareholders' equity as other comprehensive income (loss) and is reclassified into current operations as the hedged transaction impacts current operations.  Should these hedges fail to qualify for hedge accounting or be ineffective, the gain or loss on the forward contract would be reported in current operations immediately as opposed to when the hedged transaction impacts current operations, which may result in material foreign currency gains or losses.. The success of our foreign currency risk management program depends upon forecasts of transaction activity denominated in various currencies.  To the extent that these forecasts are overstated or understated during periods of currency volatility, we could experience unanticipated foreign currency gains or losses that could have a material impact on our results of operations.  Furthermore, our failure to identify new exposures and hedge them in an effective manner may result in material foreign currency gains or losses.. A significant portion of our revenues and expenses are denominated in the Euro, the Japanese Yen, and the Chinese Yuan, also known as Renminbi.  Our predominant currency of sale is the U.S. Dollar in the Americas, the Euro and U.S. Dollar in Europe, the Yuan in Mainland China, the Yen in Japan, and the U.S. Dollar in other regions.  We estimate that approximately 39% of our sales in 2017 were invoiced in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, and we expect sales denominated in foreign currencies to continue to represent a significant portion of our total revenue.  While we also have expenses denominated in these same foreign currencies, the impact on revenues has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, greater than the offsetting impact on expenses.  Therefore, in times when the U.S. Dollar strengthens in relation to these foreign currencies, we would expect to report a net decrease in operating income.  Conversely, in times when the U.S. Dollar weakens in relation to these foreign currencies, we would expect to report a net increase in operating income.  Thus, changes in the relative strength of the U.S. Dollar may have a material impact on our operating results.. Information security breaches or business system disruptions may adversely affect our business.. We rely on our information technology infrastructure and management information systems to effectively run our business.  We may be subject to information security breaches caused by hacking, malicious software, or acts of vandalism or terrorism.  Our security measures or those of our third-party service providers may not detect or prevent such breaches.  Any such compromise to our information security could result in theft of our intellectual property, a misappropriation of our cash or other assets, an interruption in our operations, the unauthorized publication of our confidential business or proprietary information, the unauthorized release of customer, vendor, or employee data, the violation of privacy or other laws, and the exposure to litigation, any of which could harm our business and operating results.. Disruptions with our management information systems may cause significant business disruption.  In 2017, we began work to replace our Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system, which is the management information system that integrates our manufacturing, order fulfillment, and financial activities.  We expect the new system to be placed into service in the second quarter of 2018.  Replacing an ERP system is a significant investment in terms of both time and money, and may divert management's attention from other operational matters.  The conversion from the old system to the new system may result in significant business disruption, including our ability to process orders, ship products, invoice customers, process payments, and otherwise run our business.  Any disruption occurring with our ERP system, or any of our other management information systems, may have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. Our business could suffer if we lose the services of, or fail to attract, key personnel.. We are highly dependent upon the management and leadership of Robert J. Shillman, our Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Culture Officer, and Robert J. Willett, our President and Chief Executive Officer, as well as other members of our senior management team.  Although we have many experienced and qualified senior managers, the loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our company.. We have historically used stock options as a key component of our employee compensation program in order to align employee interests with the interests of our shareholders, provide competitive compensation and benefits packages, and encourage employee retention.  We are limited as to the number of options that we may grant under our stock option plans.  Accordingly, we may find it difficult to attract, retain, and motivate employees, and any such difficulties could materially adversely affect our business.  Furthermore, we expect our stock-based compensation expense to increase in future years due to a higher valuation of our stock options resulting primarily from the significant increase in our stock price in 2017, which is used as an input to this valuation.. 8. Table of Contents. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business and operating results could suffer.. In 2017, the Company's revenue grew by 44% over the prior year.  To help support this growth, our headcount increased from 1,421 employees as of December 31, 2016 to 1,771 employees as of December 31, 2017.  Although this represents a net headcount increase of 350 persons, the number of new employees that we hired and trained was higher due to workforce attrition.  In addition, we currently utilize a large number of third-party contractors to provide on-site technical support and installation services.. To support our growth and execute on our operating plans and strategic initiatives, we must effectively attract, train, develop, motivate, and retain skilled employees, while maintaining our unique corporate culture.  We believe our strong corporate culture is critical to our ability to collaborate, innovate, execute, and adapt in a high-growth, fast-changing business environment.  We may not be able to hire and train new employees and contractors quickly enough to meet our business needs.  If we fail to quickly adapt our hiring and training plans to our business levels or effectively execute on our hiring plans, our efficiency and ability to meet our operating goals could suffer.  Furthermore, employee productivity, morale, and retention could suffer, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results.. Additionally, the growth and expansion of our business and product offerings place significant demand on our employees and, in particular, our management team.  The growth of our business may require significant additional resources to meet these daily requirements, which may not scale in a cost-effective manner or may negatively impact our customers' experience.  Effective management information systems, including our new Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system to be implemented in 2018, and strong internal controls are also necessary to support our growth.  If we are unable to manage the growth of our organization and business effectively, our operating results may be materially and adversely affected.. The failure of a key supplier to deliver quality product in a timely manner or our inability to obtain components for our products could adversely affect our operating results.. A significant portion of our product is manufactured by a third-party contractor located in Indonesia.  This contractor has agreed to provide Cognex with termination notification periods and last-time-buy rights, if and when that may be applicable.  We rely upon this contractor to provide quality product and meet delivery schedules.  We engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively monitoring the performance of our third-party manufacturers; however, we may not detect all product quality issues through these programs and processes.. Certain components are presently sourced from a single vendor that is selected based on price and performance considerations.  In the event of a supply disruption from a single-source vendor, these components may be purchased from alternative vendors, which may result in manufacturing delays based on the lead time of the new vendor.  Certain key electronic and mechanical components that are purchased from strategic suppliers, such as processors or imagers, are fundamental to the design of Cognex products.  A disruption in the supply of these key components, such as a last-time-buy announcement, natural disaster, financial bankruptcy, or other event, may require us to purchase a significant amount of inventory at unfavorable prices resulting in lower gross margins and higher risk of carrying excess inventory.. We are subject to the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act that obligates companies to inquire into the origin of conflict minerals in their supply chains.  We are working with our supply chain partners to take reasonable steps to assure conflict minerals are not sourced by Cognex or our supply chain partners. These steps may include purchasing supply from alternative vendors. If we are unable to secure adequate supply from alternative vendors, we may have to redesign our products, which may lead to a delay in manufacturing and a possible loss of sales.  Although we are taking certain actions to mitigate supply risk, an interruption in, termination of, or material change in the purchase terms of any key components could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. Our failure to effectively manage product transitions or accurately forecast customer demand could result in excess or obsolete inventory and resulting charges.. Because the market for our products is characterized by rapid technological advances, we frequently introduce new products with improved ease-of-use, improved hardware performance, additional software features and functionality, or lower cost that may replace existing products.  Among the risks associated with the introduction of new products are difficulty predicting customer demand and effectively managing inventory levels to ensure adequate supply of the new product and avoid excess supply of the legacy product.. 9. Table of Contents. We may strategically enter into non-cancelable commitments with vendors to purchase materials for our products in advance of demand to take advantage of favorable pricing, address concerns about the availability of future supplies, or build safety stock to help ensure customer shipments are not delayed should we experience higher than anticipated demand for materials with long lead times.  In 2017, inventories increased significantly from $26,984,000 as of December 31, 2016 to $67,923,000 as of December 31, 2017.  While a portion of this increase was to support  the higher business level, we also made strategic purchases to build safety stock in advance of the Company's Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system implementation planned for 2018 and to mitigate our exposure to significant increases in demand similar to what we experienced in 2017.  These measures to purchase inventory may expose us to an increased risk of excess or obsolete inventory and resulting charges if actual demand is lower than anticipated.  Our failure to effectively manage product transitions or accurately forecast customer demand, in terms of both volume and configuration, has led to, and may again in the future lead to, an increased risk of excess or obsolete inventory and resulting charges.. Our products may contain design or manufacturing defects, which could result in reduced demand, significant delays, or substantial costs.. If flaws in either the design or manufacture of our products were to occur, we could experience a rate of failure in our products that could result in significant delays in shipment and material repair or replacement costs.  Our release-to-market process may not be robust enough to detect significant design flaws or software bugs.  While we engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively monitoring and evaluating the quality of our component suppliers and contract manufacturers, these actions may not be sufficient to avoid a product failure rate that results in:. • substantial delays in shipment,. • significant repair or replacement costs,. • product liability claims or lawsuits, or. • potential damage to our reputation.. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. Our failure to introduce new products in a successful and timely manner could result in the loss of our market share and a decrease in our revenues and profits.. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology.  Accordingly, we believe that our future success will depend upon our ability to accelerate time-to-market for new products with improved functionality, ease-of-use, performance, or price.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to introduce new products in accordance with scheduled release dates or that new products will achieve market acceptance.  Our ability to keep pace with the rapid rate of technological change in the high-technology marketplace could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. Product development is often a complex, time-consuming, and costly process involving significant investment in research and development with no assurance of return on investment.  Our strong balance sheet allows us to continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing for new products and technologies.  Research is by its nature speculative and the ultimate commercial success of a product depends upon various factors, many of which are not under our control.  We may not achieve significant revenue from new product investments for a number of years, if at all.  Moreover, new products may not generate the gross margins that we have experienced historically.. Our failure to properly manage the distribution of our products and services could result in the loss of revenues and profits.. We utilize a direct sales force, as well as a network of integration and distribution partners, to sell our products and services.  Successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect sales channels to reach various potential customers for our products and services is a complex process.  In addition, our reliance upon indirect selling methods may reduce visibility to demand and pricing issues.  Each sales channel has distinct risks and costs, and therefore, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the sales model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue and profitability.. 10. Table of Contents. If we fail to successfully protect our intellectual property, our competitive position and operating results could suffer.. We rely on our proprietary software technology and hardware designs, as well as the technical expertise, creativity, and knowledge of our personnel to maintain our position as a leading provider of machine vision products.  Software piracy and reverse engineering, specifically from companies in Russia and Asia, may result in counterfeit products that are misrepresented in the market as Cognex products.  Although we use a variety of methods to protect our intellectual property, we rely most heavily on patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret protection, as well as non-disclosure agreements with customers, suppliers, employees, and consultants.  We also attempt to protect our intellectual property by restricting access to our proprietary information by a combination of technical and internal security measures.  These measures, however, may not be adequate to:. • protect our proprietary technology,. • protect our patents from challenge, invalidation, or circumvention, or. • ensure that our intellectual property will provide us with competitive advantages.. Our pending and future patent applications may not issue as patents or, if issued, may not issue in a form that will provide us with any meaningful protection or any competitive advantage.  Even if issued, existing or future patents may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated, or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from developing and marketing similar products or limit the length of terms of patent protection we may have for our products.  Furthermore, other companies may design around technologies we have patented, licensed, or developed.  Moreover, changes in patent laws or their interpretation in the United States and other countries could also diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection.  In addition, the legal systems of certain countries do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patents, and the laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States.  As a result, our patent portfolio may not provide us with sufficient rights to exclude others from commercializing products similar to ours.. Any of these adverse circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. Our Company may be subject to time-consuming and costly litigation.. From time to time, we may be subject to various claims and lawsuits by competitors, customers, or other parties arising in the ordinary course of business, including lawsuits charging patent infringement, or claims and lawsuits instituted by us to protect our intellectual property or for other reasons.  We may be a party to actions that are described in the section captioned \"Legal Proceedings,\" appearing in Part I - Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  These matters can be time-consuming, divert management's attention and resources, and cause us to incur significant expenses. Furthermore, the results of any of these actions may have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. Increased competition may result in decreased demand or prices for our products and services.. The machine vision market is highly fragmented and competitive.  Our competitors include other vendors of machine vision systems, controllers, and components; manufacturers of image processing systems, sensors, and components; and system integrators.  Any of these competitors may have greater financial and other resources than we do.  We may not be able to compete successfully in the future and our investments in research and development, sales and marketing, and support activities may be insufficient to enable us to maintain our competitive advantage.  In addition, competitive pressures could lead to price erosion that could have a material adverse effect on our gross margins and operating results.  We refer you to the section captioned \"Competition,\" appearing in Part I - Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding the competition that we face.. Implementation of our acquisition strategy may not be successful, which could affect our ability to increase our revenue or profitability and result in the impairment of acquired intangible assets.. We have in the past acquired, and will in the future consider the acquisition of, businesses and technologies in the machine vision industry. Our business may be negatively impacted by risks related to those acquisitions.  These risks include, among others:. • the inability to find or close attractive acquisition opportunities,. • the diversion of management's attention from other operational matters,. • the inability to realize expected synergies resulting from the acquisition,. • difficulties or delays in integrating the personnel, operations, technologies, products and systems of acquired businesses,. 11. Table of Contents. • the failure to retain key customers or employees, and. • the impairment of acquired intangible assets resulting from lower-than-expected cash flows from the acquired assets.. Acquisitions are inherently risky and the inability to effectively manage these risks could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. We are at risk for impairment charges with respect to our investments or for acquired intangible assets or goodwill, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, our investment portfolio of debt securities totaled $721 million.  These debt securities are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, recorded in shareholders' equity as other comprehensive income (loss) since these securities are designated as available-for-sale securities.  As of December 31, 2017, our portfolio of debt securities had a net unrealized loss of $58,000.  Included in this net loss, were gross unrealized losses totaling $1,164,000, of which $837,000 were in a loss position for less than twelve months and $327,000 were in a loss position for greater than twelve months.  As of December 31, 2017, these unrealized losses were determined to be temporary.  However, if conditions change and future unrealized losses were determined to be other-than-temporary, we would be required to record an impairment charge.. Management monitors the carrying value of its debt securities compared to their fair value to determine whether an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred.  In considering whether a decline in fair value is other-than-temporary, we consider many factors, both qualitative and quantitative.  Management considers the type of security, the credit rating of the security, the length of time the security has been in a loss position, the size of the loss position, our ability and intent to hold the security to expected recovery of value, and other meaningful information.  If a decline in fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge would be recorded in current operations to reduce the carrying value of the investment to its fair value.  Should the fair value of investments decline in future periods below their carrying value, management will need to determine whether this decline is other-than-temporary and future impairment charges may be required.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $113 million in acquired goodwill.  The fair value of goodwill is susceptible to changes in the fair value of the reporting segment in which the goodwill resides, and therefore, a decline in our market capitalization or cash flows relative to our net book value may result in future impairment charges.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $13 million in acquired intangible assets, consisting primarily of acquired completed technologies and customer relationships.  These assets are susceptible to changes in fair value due to a decrease in the historical or projected cash flows from the use of the asset, which may be negatively impacted by economic trends. A decline in the cash flows generated by these assets may result in future impairment charges.. If we determine that any of these investments, goodwill, or intangible assets is impaired, we would be required to take a related charge to earnings that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We may have additional tax liabilities, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. We are subject to income taxes in the United States, as well as numerous foreign jurisdictions.  Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes.  In the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.  We are regularly under audit by tax authorities.  Although we believe our tax positions are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in our financial statements and could have a material adverse effect on our income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period in which the determination is made.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") was signed into law and, as a result, the U.S. federal statutory corporate tax rate was lowered from 35% to 21%.  The Company has remeasured its deferred tax positions as of December 31, 2017 at the new enacted tax rate, and accordingly, has recognized tax expense of $12,523,000 from the write-down of deferred tax assets in 2017.  The Tax Act also subjects unrepatriated foreign earnings to a one-time transition tax, for which the Company has recorded estimated tax expense of $101,379,000 in 2017.  The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) released Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 118 to provide guidance to companies on how to implement the accounting and disclosure changes required as a result of the Tax Act.  The SEC staff guidance has recognized that, due to the complexity of the Tax Act, the accounting for this change in the law may be incomplete for income tax effects of the Tax Act upon issuance of a company's financial statements for the reporting period in which the Tax Act was enacted.  SAB No. 118 states that if a company can determine a reasonable estimate for the effects of the Tax Act then this estimate can be included in the financial statements.  The Company has made what it considers to be a reasonable estimate of the impact of the new taxes relating to foreign earnings and the write-down. 12. Table of Contents. of its deferred tax assets in its financial statements.  This significant estimate is highly judgmental and changes to this estimate could result in material charges or credits in future reporting periods.  U.S. Treasury regulations and administrative guidance have not been finalized as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  The issuance of final regulations may require the Company to revise its estimates of earnings and profits as well as certain deferred taxes as required.. The Company will continue to gather and analyze information on historical unrepatriated foreign earnings and to monitor state laws relating to this income to finalize both the federal and state tax impact.  The Tax Act limits certain deductions and these limitations may impact the value of existing deferred tax assets.  The Company will continue to review the impact of these limitations as regulatory guidance is issued."
