[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS.. <U+FEFF>. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected. The risks and uncertainties described below constitute all of the material risks of the Company of which we are currently aware; however, the risks and uncertainties described below may not be the only risks the Company will face. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are presently unaware, or that we do not currently deem to be material, may become important factors that affect us and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and the trading price of our securities. Investing in the Company's securities involves risk and the following risk factors, together with the other information contained in this report and the other reports and documents filed by us with the SEC, should be considered carefully.. <U+FEFF>. Risks Related to Our Business. <U+FEFF>. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our business in many ways and may continue to adversely affect our business in a manner which could materially reduce our revenues.. <U+FEFF>. Our business has been and may continue to be materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions. The financial markets continue to be volatile and continue to present many challenges such as the level and volatility of interest rates, investor sentiment, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage and real estate markets, consumer confidence, unemployment and geopolitical issues.. <U+FEFF>. A prolonged economic slowdown, volatility in the markets, a recession, and increasing interest rates could impair our investments and harm our operating results.. <U+FEFF>. Our investments are, and will continue to be, susceptible to economic slowdowns, recessions and rising interest rates, which may lead to financial losses in our investments and a decrease in revenues, net income and asset values. These events may reduce the value of our investments, reduce the number of attractive investment opportunities available to us and harm our operating results, which, in turn, may adversely affect our cash flow from operations.. <U+FEFF>. Our ability to raise capital in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or the equity markets, or to access secured lending markets, has been and could continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the U.S. and international markets and the economy. Global market and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile. In particular, the cost and availability of funding have been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. As a result of concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. Continued turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economy may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain counterparties to do business with us.. <U+FEFF>. We may experience write downs of financial instruments and other losses related to the volatile and illiquid market conditions.. <U+FEFF>. The credit markets in the U.S. experienced significant disruption and volatility from mid-2007 through early 2009, and challenging conditions have continued since that time. Although financial markets have become more stable and have generally improved since 2009, there remains a certain degree of uncertainty about a global economic recovery. Available liquidity also declined precipitously during the credit crisis and remains significantly depressed. The disruption in these markets generally, and in the U.S. and European markets in particular, impacted and may continue to impact our business. Furthermore, the asset management revenues we derive from CDOs are based on the outstanding performing principal balance of those investments. Therefore, as adverse market conditions result in defaults within these CDOs, our management fees have declined and may continue to decline. We have exposure to these markets and products, and if market conditions continue to worsen, the fair value of our investments and our management fees could further deteriorate. In addition, market volatility, illiquid market conditions and disruptions in the global credit markets have made it extremely difficult to value certain of our securities. Subsequent valuations, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the values of these securities, and when such securities are sold, it may be at a price materially lower than the current fair value. Any of these factors could require us to take further write downs in the fair value of our investment portfolio or cause our management fees to decline, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods.. <U+FEFF>. We have incurred losses for certain periods covered by this report and in the recent past, and may incur losses in the future.. <U+FEFF>. The Company recorded a net loss of $5.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. We may incur additional losses in future periods. If we are unable to finance future losses, those losses may have a significant effect on our liquidity as well as our ability to operate our business.. <U+FEFF>. 17. Table Of Contents. In addition, the Company has incurred and may continue to incur significant expenses in connection with initiating new business activities or in connection with any expansion or reorganization of our businesses. We may also engage in strategic acquisitions and investments for which we may incur significant expenses. Accordingly, we may need to increase our revenue at a rate greater than our expenses in order to achieve and maintain our profitability. If our revenue does not increase sufficiently, or even if our revenue does increase but we are unable to manage our expenses, we will not achieve and maintain profitability in future periods.. <U+FEFF>. We have experienced difficulties in our Capital Markets segment over the past several years due to intense competition in our industry, which has resulted in significant strain on our administrative, operational and financial resources. These difficulties may continue in the future.. <U+FEFF>. The financial services industry and all of our businesses are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. We compete with commercial banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds and other companies offering financial services in the United States, globally, and through the internet. We compete on the basis of several factors, including transaction execution, capital or access to capital, products and services, innovation, reputation, risk appetite and price. Over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired by or merged into other firms or have declared bankruptcy. These developments could result in our competitors gaining greater capital and other resources such as a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity. We have experienced and may continue to experience pricing pressures in our Capital Markets segment as a result of these factors and as some of our competitors may seek to increase market share by reducing prices.. <U+FEFF>. Both margins and volumes in certain products and markets within the fixed income brokerage business have decreased materially as competition has increased and general market activity has declined. Further, we expect that competition will increase over time, resulting in continued margin pressure. These challenges have materially adversely affected our Capital Markets segment's results of operations and may continue to do so.. <U+FEFF>. We intend to focus on improving the performance of our Capital Markets segment, which could place additional demands on our resources and increase our expenses. Improving the performance of our Capital Markets segment will depend on, among other things, our ability to successfully identify groups and individuals to join our firm and our ability to successfully grow our existing business lines and platforms and opportunistically expand into other complementary business areas. It may take more than a year for us to determine whether we have successfully integrated new individuals, lines of business and capabilities into our operations. During that time, we may incur significant expenses and expend significant time and resources toward training, integration and business development. If we are unable to hire and retain senior management or other qualified personnel, such as sales people and traders, we will not be able to grow our business and our financial results may be materially and adversely affected.. <U+FEFF>. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully improve the operations of our Capital Markets segment, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue and control expenses.. <U+FEFF>. The incurrence of additional debt to finance our matched book repo business could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation.. <U+FEFF>. On October 18, 2017, the Company was notified that it had been approved as a full netting member of the FICC's Government Securities Division.  As a member of the FICC, the Company has access to the FICC's GCF repo service that provides netting and settlement services for repurchase transactions where the underlying security is general collateral (primarily U.S. Treasuries and U.S. Agency securities).  The Company began entering into matched book GCF repo transactions in November 2017.  The borrowers (the reverse repurchase agreement counterparties) are a diverse group of financial institutions including hedge funds, registered investment funds, REITs, and other similar counterparties.  The lender (the repurchase agreement counterparty) is primarily the FICC itself.  As a result of our new matched book repo business, we have incurred additional debt  and expect to incur additional debt in the future.  Our level of debt and the limitations imposed upon us by our debt agreements could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Our matched book repo financing is facilitated through JVB, which is subject to various broker-dealer regulations. JVB's failure to comply with these regulations, facilitate attractive matched book repo financing and its ability to conduct business with third parties could adversely affect our funding costs, \"haircuts\" and/or counterparty exposure.. <U+FEFF>. We have grown our matched book repo business under which JVB enters into repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements.  JVB's ability to access repo funding and to raise funds through the GCF repo service offered by the FICC, requires that it continuously meet the regulatory and membership requirements of FINRA and the FICC, which may change over time. If JVB fails to meet these requirements and is unable to access such funding, we would be required to find alternative funding, which we may be unable to do, and our funding costs, \"haircuts\" and/or counterparty exposure could increase.  This could make our matched book repo business uneconomical and/or could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. 18. Table Of Contents. Our matched book repo business is a new business strategy for us, which will require significant resources and management attention, and we may not be successful in achieving our strategic goals.. <U+FEFF>. There is no assurance that we will be able to operate our new matched book repo business effectively or profitably over the long term, or that our matched book repo business will result in improved operating results. Furthermore, the matched book repo industry is intensely competitive and we compete with existing players in this sector, many of whom are established and have significant resources and existing customer relationships. Moreover, we may not be able to consistently ascertain and allocate the appropriate financial and human resources necessary to grow this business area. We may invest considerable capital in developing our matched book repo business, but fail to achieve satisfactory financial return. In light of these risks and uncertainties, there can be no assurance that we will realize a profit from this new business line or that diverting our management's attention to this new business line will not have a negative impact on our existing businesses, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. U.S. Housing Market. <U+FEFF>. In recent years, our mortgage group has become an increasingly important component of our Capital Markets segment and the Company overall.  The mortgage group primarily earns revenue by providing hedging execution, securities financing, and trade execution services to mortgage originators and other investors in mortgage backed securities.  Therefore, this group's revenue is highly dependent on the volume of mortgage originations in the United States. Origination activity is highly sensitive to interest rates, the U.S. job market, housing starts, sale activity of existing housing stock, as well as the general health of the U.S. economy.  In addition, any new regulation that impacts U.S. government agency mortgage backed security issuance activity, residential mortgage underwriting standards, or otherwise impacts mortgage originators will impact our business.  We have no control over these external factors and there is no effective way for us to hedge against these risks.  Our mortgage group's volumes and profitability will be highly impacted by these external factors.. <U+FEFF>. If we fail to implement our cost management initiatives effectively, our business could be disrupted and our financial results could be adversely affected.. <U+FEFF>. The Company continues to look for ways to reduce infrastructure costs and reposition itself in the financial services industry. Beginning in 2010 and continuing to the present, the Company executed initiatives that created efficiencies within its business and decreased operating expenses through the realignment of operating facilities, a merger of its two registered U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries, and a restructuring of operating systems and systems support.. <U+FEFF>. Our cost management initiatives have included reducing our workforce, which has burdened on our management, systems and resources, and generally increased our dependence on key persons and reduced functional back-ups. As a result, our ability to respond to unexpected challenges may be impaired, and we may be unable to take advantage of new opportunities. In addition, if these and initiatives do not have the desired effects or result in the projected increased efficiencies, the Company may incur additional or unexpected expenses, reputational damage, or loss of customers which would adversely affect the Company's operations and revenues.. <U+FEFF>. In response to changes in industry and market conditions, the Company may be required to further strategically realign its resources and consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting businesses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to:. <U+FEFF>.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tExpand our capabilities or systems effectively;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tSuccessfully develop new products or services;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tAllocate our human resources optimally;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tIdentify, hire or retain qualified employees or vendors;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tIncorporate effectively the components of any business that we may acquire in our effort to achieve growth;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tSell businesses or assets at their fair market value; or.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tEffectively manage the costs associated with exiting a business.. <U+FEFF>. Our Capital Markets segment depends significantly on a limited group of customers.. <U+FEFF>. From time to time, based on market conditions, a small number of our customers may account for a significant portion of our revenues earned in our Capital Markets segment. None of our customers is obligated contractually to use our services. Accordingly, these customers may direct their activities to other firms at any time. The loss of or a significant reduction in demand for our services from any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. <U+FEFF>. 19. Table Of Contents. If we do not retain our senior management and continue to attract and retain qualified personnel, we may not be able to execute our business strategy.. <U+FEFF>. The members of our senior management team have extensive experience in the financial services industry. Their reputations and relationships with investors, financing sources and members of the business community in our industry, among others, are critical elements in operating and expanding our business. As a result, the loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team could impair our ability to execute our business strategies, which could hinder our ability to achieve and sustain profitability.  The Company has various employment arrangements with the members of its senior management team, but there can be no assurance that the terms of these employment arrangements will provide sufficient incentives for each of the members of the senior management team to continue employment with us.. <U+FEFF>. We depend on the diligence, experience, skill and network of business contacts of our senior management team and our employees in connection with (1) our Capital Markets segment, (2) our asset management operations, (3) our investment activities, and (4) the evaluation, negotiation, structuring and management of new business opportunities. Our business depends on the expertise of our personnel and their ability to work together as an effective team and our success depends substantially on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Competition for employees with the necessary qualifications is intense, and we may not be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. The inability to retain and recruit qualified personnel could affect our ability to provide an acceptable level of service to our clients and funds, attract new clients, and develop new lines of business, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. <U+FEFF>. Payment of severance could strain our cash flow.. <U+FEFF>. Certain members of our senior management team have agreements that provide for substantial severance payments. Should several of these senior managers leave our employ under circumstances entitling them to severance, or become disabled or die, the need to pay these severance benefits could put a strain on our cash flow.. <U+FEFF>. Our business will require a significant amount of cash, and if it is not available, our business and financial performance will be significantly harmed.. <U+FEFF>. We require a substantial amount of cash to fund our investments, pay our expenses and hold our assets. More specifically, we require cash to:. <U+FEFF>.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmeet our working capital requirements and debt service obligations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake incremental investments in our Capital Markets segment;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\thire new employees; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmeet other needs.. <U+FEFF>. Our primary sources of working capital and cash are expected to consist of:. <U+FEFF>.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trevenue from operations, including net trading revenue, asset management revenue, new issue and advisory revenue, interest income and dividends from our investment portfolio and potential monetization of principal investments;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinterest income from temporary investments and cash equivalents;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsales of assets; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tproceeds from future borrowings or any offerings of our equity or debt securities.. <U+FEFF>. We may not be able to generate a sufficient amount of cash from operations and investing and financing activities in order to successfully execute our business strategy.. <U+FEFF>. Failure to obtain or maintain adequate capital and funding would adversely affect the growth and results of our operations and may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our Common Stock.. <U+FEFF>. Liquidity is essential to our businesses. We depend upon the availability of adequate funding and capital for our operations. In particular, we may need to raise additional capital in order to significantly grow our business. Our liquidity could be substantially adversely affected by our inability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or the equity capital markets or our inability to access the secured lending markets. Factors that we cannot control, such as continued or additional disruption of the financial markets, or negative views about the financial services industry generally, have limited and may continue to limit our ability to raise capital. In addition, our ability to raise capital could be impaired if lenders develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects. Such negative perceptions could be developed if we incur large trading losses, we suffer a decline in the level of our business activity, we suffer material litigation losses, regulatory authorities take significant action against us, or we discover significant employee misconduct or illegal activity, among other reasons. Sufficient funding or capital may not be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable, or at all. If we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we. 20. Table Of Contents. would likely need to finance or liquidate unencumbered assets, such as our investment and trading portfolios, in order to meet our maturing liabilities. We may be unable to sell some of our assets, or we may have to sell assets at a discount from market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.  If we are unable to meet our funding needs on a timely basis, our business would be adversely affected and there may be a negative impact on the market price of our Common Stock.. <U+FEFF>. The lack of liquidity in certain investments may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. We hold investments in securities of private companies, investment funds, CDOs and CLOs. A portion of these securities may be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or may otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises.. <U+FEFF>. Uncertainty regarding Brexit and the outcome of future arrangements between the European Union and the United Kingdom may adversely affect our business.. We have a presence in certain European Union countries, including the U.K. On June 23, 2016, the U.K. voted in favor of a referendum to leave the European Union, commonly referred to as \"Brexit.\" By invoking Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty, the U.K. is currently set to leave the E.U. in March 2019. In its negotiations with the E.U., the U.K. is not seeking to maintain continued access to the E.U. single market following Brexit, which will lead to the loss of the \"passporting\" rights for regulated financial services firms to automatically operate throughout the E.U. This future loss of the existing passport right to the E.U. will affect us as it means we will no longer be able to conduct business in the E.U. through our U.K. subsidiary following Brexit.. Current discussions between the U.K. and the E.U. regarding a transitional period following March 2019 envisage a temporary continuation of the existing passporting rights during such period. However, we are not able to predict with any certainty whether the U.K. and the E.U. will be able to agree to a transitional period, which laws and policies will apply during any such transitional period, whether we would be able to rely on the existing \"passporting regime\" during a transitional period or the length of such period. Accordingly, we have begun the process of establishing a new regulated subsidiary in the E.U. in order to provide continuing services to clients in the E.U. following Brexit.. Brexit is expected to significantly affect the fiscal, monetary and regulatory landscape in both the U.K. and E.U., and could have a material impact on their economies and the future growth of various industries. The exit of the U.K., together with the protracted negotiations around the terms of the exit, could significantly impact the business environment in which we operate, increase the cost of conducting business in both the E.U. and the U.K., and introduce significant new uncertainties with respect to the legal and regulatory requirements to which we are subject. As we currently conduct business in Europe primarily through our U.K. subsidiary, we will face new regulatory and operational costs and challenges associated with the establishment of a new regulated subsidiary in the E.U.. Although it is not possible at this point in time to predict fully the effects of an exit of the U.K. from the E.U., or the substance or timeline for any transitional period, any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, Brexit may impact our ability to comply with the extensive government regulation to which we are subject.. If we are unable to manage the risks of international operations effectively, our business could be adversely affected.. <U+FEFF>. We currently provide services and products to clients in Europe, through offices in London and Paris. There are certain additional risks inherent in doing business in international markets, particularly in the regulated brokerage and asset management industries. These risks include:. <U+FEFF>.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadditional regulatory requirements;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in recruiting and retaining personnel and managing the international operations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpotentially adverse tax consequences, tariffs and other trade barriers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadverse labor laws; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\treduced protection for intellectual property rights.. <U+FEFF>. If we are unable to manage any of these risks effectively, our business could be adversely affected.. <U+FEFF>. In addition, our current international operations expose us to the risk of fluctuations in currency exchange rates generally and fluctuations in the exchange rates for the Euro and the British Pound Sterling in particular. Although we may hedge our foreign currency risk, we may not be able to do so successfully and may incur losses that could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. 21. Table Of Contents. The securities settlement process exposes us to risks that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. We provide brokerage services to our clients in the form of \"matched principal transactions\" or by providing liquidity by purchasing securities from them on a principal basis. In \"matched principal transactions\" we act as a \"middleman\" by serving as a counterparty to both a buyer and a seller in matching reciprocal back-to-back trades. These transactions, which generally involve bonds, are then settled through clearing institutions with which we have a contractual relationship. There is no guarantee that we will be able to maintain existing contractual relationships with clearing institutions on favorable terms or that we will be able to establish relationships with new clearing institutions on favorable terms, or at all.. <U+FEFF>. In executing matched principal transactions, we are exposed to the risk that one of the counterparties to a transaction may fail to fulfill its obligations, either because it is not matched immediately or, even if matched, one party fails to deliver the cash or securities it is obligated to deliver upon settlement. In addition, some of the products we trade or may trade in the future are in less commoditized markets which may exacerbate this risk because transactions in such markets may not to settle on a timely basis. Adverse movements in the prices of securities that are the subject of these transactions can increase our risk. In addition, widespread technological or communication failures, as well as actual or perceived credit difficulties, or the insolvency of one or more large or visible market participants, could cause market-wide credit difficulties or other market disruptions. These failures, difficulties or disruptions could result in a large number of market participants not settling transactions or otherwise not performing their obligations.. <U+FEFF>. We are subject to financing risk in these circumstances because if a transaction does not settle on a timely basis, the resulting unmatched position may need to be financed, either directly by us or through one of our clearing organizations at our expense. These charges may not be recoverable from the failing counterparty. Finally, in instances where the unmatched position or failure to deliver is prolonged or widespread due to rapid or widespread declines in liquidity for an instrument, there may also be regulatory capital charges required to be taken by us which, depending on their size and duration, could limit our business flexibility or even force the curtailment of those portions of our business requiring higher levels of capital. Credit or settlement losses of this nature could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. In the process of executing matched principal transactions, miscommunications and other errors by our clients or by us can arise whereby a transaction is not completed with one or more counterparties to the transaction, leaving us with either a long or short unmatched position. If the unmatched position is promptly discovered and there is a prompt disposition of the unmatched position, the risk to us is usually limited. If the discovery of an out trade is delayed, the risk is heightened by the increased possibility of intervening market movements prior to disposition. Although out trades usually become known at the time of, or later on the day of, the trade, it is possible that they may not be discovered until later in the settlement process. When out trades are discovered, our policy will generally be to have the unmatched position disposed of promptly, whether or not this disposition would result in a loss to us. The occurrence of unmatched positions generally rises with increases in the volatility of the market and, depending on their number and amount, such out trades have the potential to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. From time to time, we may also provide brokerage services in the form of agency transactions. In agency transactions, we charge a commission for connecting buyers and sellers and assisting in the negotiation of the price and other material terms of the transaction. After all material terms of a transaction are agreed upon, we identify the buyer and seller to each other and leave them to settle the trade directly. We are exposed to credit risk for commissions we bill to clients for agency brokerage services.. <U+FEFF>. Participation in matched principal, principal, or agency transactions subjects us to disputes, counterparty credit risk, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other market wide or counterparty specific risks. Any losses arising from such risks could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the failure of a significant number of counterparties or a counterparty that holds a significant amount of derivatives exposure, or that has significant financial exposure to, or reliance on, the mortgage, asset-backed or related markets, could have a material adverse effect on the trading volume and liquidity in a particular market for which we provide brokerage services or on the broader financial markets.. <U+FEFF>. We have policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage these risks, through reporting and control procedures and by monitoring credit standards applicable to our clients. These policies and procedures, however, may not be fully effective. Some of our risk management methods will depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible by us. That information may not, in all cases, be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. If our policies and procedures are not fully effective or we are not always successful in monitoring or evaluating the risks to which we may be exposed, our financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, we may not be able to obtain insurance to cover all of the types of risks we face and any insurance policies we do obtain may not provide adequate coverage for covered risks.. <U+FEFF>. 22. Table Of Contents. We are exposed to the risk that third parties that are indebted to us will not perform their obligations.. <U+FEFF>. Credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising from borrower, counterparty or obligor default when a borrower, counterparty or obligor does not meet its obligations. We incur significant credit risk exposure through our Capital Markets segment. This risk may arise from a variety of business activities, including but not limited to extending credit to clients through various lending commitments; providing short or long-term funding that is secured by physical or financial collateral whose value may at times be insufficient to fully cover the loan repayment amount; entering into swap or other derivative contracts under which counterparties have obligations to make payments to us; and posting margin and/or collateral to clearing houses, clearing agencies, exchanges, banks, securities firms and other financial counterparties. We incur credit risk in traded securities and loan pools whereby the value of these assets may fluctuate based on realized or expected defaults on the underlying obligations or loans.. <U+FEFF>. There is a possibility that continued difficult economic conditions may further negatively impact our clients and our current credit exposures. Although we regularly review our credit exposures, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee.. <U+FEFF>. We are exposed to various risks related to margin requirements under repurchase agreements and securities financing arrangements and are highly dependent on our clearing relationships.. <U+FEFF>. We maintain repurchase agreements with various third party financial institutions and other counterparties. Under those repurchase agreements we act as both a buyer and a seller of the subject securities. Our business related to these repurchase agreements is predominantly matched, meaning that we do not purchase or sell securities unless there is another institution prepared to simultaneously purchase or sell securities to or from us, as applicable. There are limits to the amount of securities that may be transferred pursuant to these agreements, and available lines both for us and our counterparties for whom we purchase securities are approved on a case-by-case basis after each counterparty has gone through a credit review process. The repurchase agreements we execute with our counterparties include substantive provisions other than those covenants and other customary provisions contained in standard master repurchase agreements. However, while these additional provisions may work to mitigate some of the risks related to repurchase agreement transactions, these additional substantive provisions do not guarantee the performance of a counterparty or alleviate all of the potential risks we could face from entering into repurchase agreement transactions.. <U+FEFF>. The repurchase agreements generally require the seller under such repurchase agreement to transfer additional securities to the counterparty who is acting as the buyer under the repurchase agreement in the event that the value of the securities then held by the buyer falls below specified levels. The repurchase agreements contain events of default in cases where a counterparty breaches its obligations under the agreements. When we are acting in the capacity of a seller under these agreements we receive margin calls from time to time in the ordinary course of business, and no assurance can be given that we will be able to satisfy requests from our counterparties to post additional collateral in the future. Similarly, when we are acting in the capacity of a buyer under these agreements we make margin calls from time to time to our seller counterparties in the ordinary course of business and no assurance can be given that our counterparties will have adequate funds or collateral to satisfy such margin call requirements. Generally, if there were an event of default under the repurchase agreements, such event of default would provide the non-defaulting counterparty with the option to terminate all outstanding repurchase transactions with us and make all amounts due from the defaulting counterparty immediately payable. However, there can be no assurance that any such defaulting counterparty will have the funds or collateral needed to fully satisfy any such margin call or other amount due. Generally, repurchase obligations are full recourse obligations and if we were to default under a repurchase obligation, the counterparty would have recourse to our other assets if the collateral was not sufficient to satisfy the obligation in full.. <U+FEFF>. In addition, our clearing brokers provide securities financing arrangements including margin arrangements and securities borrowing and lending arrangements. These arrangements generally require us to transfer additional securities or cash to the clearing broker in the event that the value of the securities then held by the clearing broker in the margin account falls below specified levels, and contain events of default in cases where we breach our obligations under such agreements. An event of default under a clearing agreement would give the clearing broker the option to terminate the clearing arrangement and any amounts owed to the clearing broker would be immediately due and payable. These obligations are recourse to us.. <U+FEFF>. Furthermore, we are highly dependent on our relationships with our clearing brokers. Any termination of our clearing arrangements whether due to a breach of the agreement or any default, bankruptcy or reorganization of our clearing brokers would result in a significant disruption to our business as we clear all trades through these entities. Any such termination would have a significant negative impact on our dealings and relationship with our customers.. <U+FEFF>. We have market risk exposure from unmatched principal transactions entered into by our brokerage desks, which could result in substantial losses to us and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. We allow certain of our brokerage desks access to limited capital to enter into unmatched principal transactions in the ordinary course of business for the purpose of facilitating clients' execution needs for transactions initiated by such clients or to add liquidity to. 23. Table Of Contents. certain illiquid markets. As a result, we have market risk exposure on these unmatched principal transactions. Our exposure will vary based on the size of the overall positions, the terms and liquidity of the instruments brokered, and the amount of time the positions will be held before we dispose of the position.. <U+FEFF>. We do not expect to track our exposure to unmatched positions on an intra-day basis. These unmatched positions are intended to be held short-term. Due to a number of factors, including the nature of the position and access to the market on which we trade, we may not be able to match the position or effectively hedge our exposure and often may be forced to hold a position overnight that has not been hedged. To the extent these unmatched positions are not disposed of intra-day, we mark these positions to market. Adverse movements in the securities underlying these positions or a downturn or disruption in the markets for these positions could result in our sustaining a substantial loss. In addition, any principal gains and losses resulting from these positions could on occasion have a disproportionate effect, positive or negative, on our financial condition and results of operations for any particular reporting period.. <U+FEFF>. Pricing and other competitive pressures may impair the revenues and profitability of our brokerage business.. <U+FEFF>. In recent years, we have experienced significant pricing pressures on trading margins and commissions, primarily in debt trading. In the fixed income market, regulatory requirements have resulted in greater price transparency, leading to increased price competition and decreased trading margins. The trend toward using alternative trading systems is continuing to grow, which may result in decreased commission and trading revenue, reduce our participation in the trading markets and our ability to access market information, and lead to the creation of new and stronger competitors. Additional pressure on sales and trading revenue may impair the profitability of our brokerage business. We believe that price competition and pricing pressures in these and other areas will continue as institutional investors continue to reduce the amounts they are willing to pay, including reducing the number of brokerage firms they use, and some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing fees, commissions or margins.. <U+FEFF>. Increase in capital commitments in our trading business increases the potential for significant losses.. <U+FEFF>. We may enter into transactions in which we commit our own capital as part of our trading business. The number and size of these transactions may materially affect our results of operations in a given period. We may also incur significant losses from our trading activities due to market fluctuations and volatility from quarter to quarter. We maintain trading positions in the fixed income market to facilitate client-trading activities. To the extent that we own security positions, in any of those markets, a downturn in the value of those securities or in those markets could result in losses from a decline in value. Conversely, to the extent that we have sold securities we do not own in any of those markets, an upturn in those markets could expose us to potentially unlimited losses as we attempt to acquire the securities in a rising market. Moreover, taking such positions in times of significant volatility can lead to significant unrealized losses, which further impact our ability to borrow to finance such activities.. <U+FEFF>. Our principal trading and investments expose us to risk of loss.. <U+FEFF>. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from trading in which we act as principal. The Company may incur trading losses relating to the purchase, sale or short sale of corporate and asset-backed fixed income securities and other securities for our own account and from other principal trading. In any period, we may experience losses as a result of price declines, lack of trading volume, general market conditions, employee inexperience, errors or misconduct, and illiquidity. From time to time, we may engage in a large block trade in a single security or maintain large position concentrations in a single security, securities of a single issuer, or securities of issuers engaged in a specific industry. In general, any downward price movement in these securities could result in a reduction of our revenues and profits.. <U+FEFF>. In addition, we may engage in hedging transactions and strategies that may not properly mitigate losses in our principal positions. If the transactions and strategies are not successful, we could suffer significant losses.. <U+FEFF>. Our investments in CLOs are subject to various risks, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.. <U+FEFF>. As of December 31, 2017, we had $12.9 million in other investments, at fair value. Of that amount, $4.5 million represent investments in CLO vehicles.. <U+FEFF>. Our Principal Investment portfolio includes equity investments in CLO vehicles, which involves a number of significant risks.  CLO vehicles are typically very highly levered and, therefore, the equity tranches in which we invest are subject to a higher degree of risk of total loss.  In particular, investors in CLO vehicles indirectly bear risks of the underlying debt investments held by such CLO vehicles. We generally only have the right to receive payments from the CLO vehicles, and generally do not have direct rights against the underlying borrowers or the entity that sponsored the CLO vehicle.  In addition, we have limited control of the administration and amendment of any CLO in which we invest.. <U+FEFF>. 24. Table Of Contents. While the CLO vehicles we target generally enable an investor to acquire interests in a pool of senior loans without the expenses associated with directly holding the same investments, the CLO will pay its expenses, including trustee and rating agency fees, prior to any distributions to the holder of the CLO equity.  Although it is difficult to predict whether the prices of indices and securities underlying CLO vehicles will rise or fall, these prices (and, therefore, the prices of the CLO vehicles) will be influenced by the same types of political and economic events that affect issuers of securities and capital markets generally.  The failure by a CLO vehicle in which we invest to satisfy financial covenants, including with respect to adequate collateralization and/or interest coverage tests, could lead to a reduction in its payments to us.  In the event that a CLO vehicle fails certain tests, holders of debt senior to us may be entitled to additional payments that would, in turn, reduce the payments we would otherwise be entitled to receive. Separately, we may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms with a defaulting CLO vehicle or any other investment we may make.. <U+FEFF>. The interests we have acquired in CLO vehicles are generally thinly traded or have only a limited trading market.  CLO vehicles are typically privately offered and sold, even in the secondary market.  As a result, investments in CLO vehicles may be characterized as illiquid securities.  In addition, investing in CLO vehicles carries additional risks, including, but not limited to: (i) the possibility that distributions from collateral securities will not be adequate to make interest or other payments; (ii) the quality of the collateral may decline in value or default; (iii) the fact that our investments in CLO equity will be subordinate to other classes of note tranches; and (iv) the complex structure of the security may not be fully understood at the time of investment and may produce disputes with the CLO vehicle or unexpected investment results.  Our total equity may also decline over time if our principal recovery with respect to CLO equity investments is less than the price that we paid for those investments.. <U+FEFF>. If we are unable to manage any of these risks effectively, our results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. <U+FEFF>. If the investments we have made or make on behalf of our investment funds and separately managed accounts perform poorly, we will suffer a decline in our asset management revenue and earnings because some of our fees are subject to the credit performance of the portfolios of assets. In addition, the investors in our investment funds and our separately managed accounts may seek to terminate our management agreements based on poor performance. Any of these results could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to raise capital for future investment funds and separately managed accounts.. <U+FEFF>. Our revenue from our asset management business is partially derived from management fees paid by the investment funds and separate accounts we manage. In the case of the investment funds and separately managed accounts, our management fees are based on the equity of and net income earned by the vehicles, which is substantially based on the performance of the securities in which they invest.. <U+FEFF>. In the event that our investment funds or separately managed accounts perform poorly, our asset management revenues and earnings will suffer a decline. We may be unable to raise capital for new investment funds or separately managed accounts to offset any losses we may experience. Our management contracts may be terminated for various reasons.. <U+FEFF>. If the investments we have made on behalf of our CDOs and permanent capital vehicle perform poorly, we will suffer a decline in our asset management revenue and earnings because some of our fees are subject to the credit performance of the portfolios of assets. In addition, the investors in our CDOs and, to a lesser extent, our permanent capital vehicles, may seek to terminate our management agreements based on poor performance. We could lose management fee income from the CDOs we manage or client assets under management as a result of the triggering of certain structural protections built into such CDOs.. <U+FEFF>. Our revenue from our asset management business is also derived from fees earned for managing our CDOs. Our CDOs generate three types of fees: (1) senior fees that are generally paid to us before interest is paid on any of the securities in the capital structure; (2) subordinated fees that are generally paid to us after interest is paid on securities in the capital structure; and (3) incentive fees that are generally paid to us after a period of years in the life of the CDO and after the holders of the most junior CDO securities have been paid a specified return. In the event that our CDOs perform poorly, our asset management revenues and earnings will suffer a decline. Our CDO contracts may be terminated for various reasons.. <U+FEFF>. The CDOs we manage generally contain structural provisions including, but not limited to, over-collateralization requirements and/or market value triggers that are meant to protect investors from deterioration in the credit quality of the underlying collateral pool. In certain cases, breaches of these structural provisions can lead to events of default under the indentures governing the CDOs and, ultimately, acceleration of the notes issued by the CDOs and liquidation of the underlying collateral. In the event of a liquidation of the collateral underlying a CDO, we will lose client assets under management and therefore management fees, which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. In addition, all of the CDOs we manage have reached their auction call redemption features which means the portfolio of collateral for each CDO is subject to an auction on either a quarterly or bi-annual basis. If an auction is successful, the management contract related to such CDO will be terminated in connection with the liquidation of the CDO and we will lose the related management fees.. <U+FEFF>. 25. Table Of Contents. We may need to offer new investment strategies and products in order to continue to generate revenue.. <U+FEFF>. The asset management industry is subject to rapid change. Strategies and products that had historically been attractive may lose their appeal for various reasons. Thus, strategies and products that have generated fee revenue for us in the past may fail to do so in the future, in which case we would have to develop new strategies and products. It could be both expensive and difficult for us to develop new strategies and products, and we may not be successful in this regard. Since the disruptions in the global financial markets, we have had difficulty expanding our offerings which has inhibited our growth and harmed our competitive position in the asset management industry, and this may continue in the future.. <U+FEFF>. If our risk management systems for our businesses are ineffective, we may be exposed to material unanticipated losses.. <U+FEFF>. We seek to manage, monitor, and control our operational, legal and regulatory risk through operational and compliance reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms, and may not fully mitigate the risk exposure of our businesses in all economic or market environments or protect against all types of risk. Further, our risk management methods may not effectively predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. In addition, some of our risk management methods are based on an evaluation of information regarding markets, clients, and other matters that are based on assumptions that may no longer be accurate. A failure to adequately manage our growth, or to effectively manage our risk, could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our risk management processes include addressing potential conflicts of interest that arise in our business. We have procedures and controls in place to address conflicts of interest. Management of potential conflicts of interest has become increasingly complex as we expand our business activities through more numerous transactions, obligations and interests with and among our clients. The failure to adequately address, or the perceived failure to adequately address, conflicts of interest could affect our reputation, the willingness of clients to transact business with us, or give rise to litigation or regulatory actions. Therefore, there can be no assurance that conflicts of interest will not arise in the future, and such conflicts could cause material harm to us.. <U+FEFF>. Our failure to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest could damage our reputation and adversely affect our business.. <U+FEFF>. Appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with one or more potential or actual conflicts of interest. It is possible that potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to investor dissatisfaction or litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. In addition, regulatory scrutiny of, or litigation in connection with, conflicts of interest would have a material adverse effect on our reputation, which could materially and adversely affect our business in a number of ways, including an inability to raise additional funds, a reluctance of counterparties to do business with us and the costs of defending litigation.. <U+FEFF>. We are highly dependent on information and communications systems. Systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect our operating results.. <U+FEFF>. Our business will depend, to a substantial degree, on the proper functioning of our information and communications systems and our ability to retain the employees and consultants who operate and maintain these systems. Any failure or interruption of our systems, due to systems failures, staff departures or otherwise, could result in delays, increased costs or other problems which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. A disaster, such as water damage to an office, an explosion or a prolonged loss of electrical power, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. In addition, if security measures contained in our systems are breached as a result of third party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, our reputation may be damaged and our business could suffer. We have developed a business continuity plan, however, there are no assurances that such plan will be successful in preventing, timely and adequately addressing, or mitigating the negative effects of any failure or interruption.. <U+FEFF>. There can be no assurance that our information systems and other technology will continue to be able to accommodate our operations, or that the cost of maintaining the systems and technology will not materially increase from the current level. A failure to accommodate our operations, or a material increase in costs related to information systems and technology, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. <U+FEFF>. We may not be able to keep pace with continuing changes in technology.. <U+FEFF>. Our market is characterized by rapidly changing technology. To be successful, we must adapt to this rapidly changing environment by continually improving the performance, features, and reliability of our services. We could incur substantial costs if we need to modify our services or infrastructure or adapt our technology to respond to these changes. A delay or failure to address technological advances and developments or an increase in costs resulting from these changes could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. 26. Table Of Contents. Failure to protect client data or prevent breaches of our information systems could expose us to liability or reputational damage.. <U+FEFF>. The secure transmission of confidential information over public networks is a critical element of our operations. We are dependent on information technology networks and systems to securely process, transmit and store electronic information and to communicate among our locations and with our clients and vendors. As the breadth and complexity of this infrastructure continue to grow, the potential risk of security breaches and cyber-attacks increases. As a financial services company, we may be subject to cyber-attacks and phishing scams by third parties. In addition, vulnerabilities of our external service providers and other third parties could pose security risks to client information. Such breaches could lead to shutdowns or disruptions of our systems and potential unauthorized disclosure of confidential information.. <U+FEFF>. In providing services to clients, we manage, utilize and store sensitive and confidential client data, including personal data. As a result, we are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as U.S. federal and state laws and foreign regulations governing the protection of personally identifiable information. These laws and regulations are increasing in complexity and number, change frequently and sometimes conflict. If any person, including any of our employees, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to client data, or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we could be subject to significant monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines and/or criminal prosecution in one or more jurisdictions. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client data, whether through systems failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. Similarly, unauthorized access to or through our information systems, whether by our employees or third parties, including a cyber-attack by computer programmers and hackers who may deploy viruses, worms or other malicious software programs, could result in negative publicity, significant remediation costs, legal liability, financial responsibility under our security guarantee to reimburse clients for losses resulting from unauthorized activity in their accounts and damage to our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, our liability insurance might not be sufficient in type or amount to cover us against claims related to security breaches, cyber-attacks, phishing scams and other related breaches.. <U+FEFF>. We are largely dependent on Pershing LLC to provide clearing services and margin financing.. <U+FEFF>. Our broker-dealer relies on Pershing LLC to provide clearing services, as well as other operational and support functions that cannot be provided for internally. In addition, currently all of our margin financing is obtained from Pershing LLC.  As of December 31, 2017, our total margin loan payable to Pershing LLC is $128.6 million.  If our relationship with Pershing LLC is terminated, there can be no assurance that the functions and margin loan financing previously provided could be replaced on comparable economic terms.. <U+FEFF>. We are largely dependent on Bank of New York to provide settlement and clearing services in connection with our matched book repo business.. <U+FEFF>. The Company uses Bank of New York (\"BONY\") as its settlement agent for its GCF repo matched book transactions.  The Company is considered self-clearing for this business.  If our relationship with BONY is terminated, there can be no assurance that the functions previously provided by BONY in connection with our matched book repo business could be replaced on comparable economic terms, if at all.. <U+FEFF>. We depend on third-party software licenses and the loss of any of our key licenses could adversely affect our ability to provide our brokerage services.. <U+FEFF>. We license software from third parties, some of which is integral to our electronic brokerage systems and our business. Such licenses are generally terminable if we breach our obligations under the licenses or if the licensor gives us notice in advance of the termination. If any of these relationships were terminated, or if any of these third parties were to cease doing business, we may be forced to spend significant time and money to replace the licensed software. These replacements may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all. A termination of any of these relationships could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. 27. Table Of Contents. Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and ability to compete. In addition, our failure to satisfy the financial covenants in our debt agreements could result in a default and acceleration of repayment of the indebtedness thereunder.. <U+FEFF>. Our balance sheet includes approximately $71.3 million par value of recourse indebtedness. Our indebtedness could have important consequences to our stockholders. For example, our indebtedness could:. <U+FEFF>.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake it more difficult for us to pay our debts as they become due during general adverse economic and market industry conditions because any related decrease in revenues could cause our cash flows from operations to decrease and make it difficult for us to make our scheduled debt payments;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate and consequently, place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors with less debt;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequire a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to be used for debt service payments, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimit our ability to borrow additional funds to expand our business or alleviate liquidity constraints, as a result of financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tresult in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates since some of our borrowings are and will continue to be, at variable rates of interest.. <U+FEFF>. Under the junior subordinated notes related to the Alesco Capital Trust, we are required to maintain a total debt to capitalization ratio of less than 0.95 to 1.0. Also, because the aggregate amount of our outstanding subordinated debt exceeds 25% of our net worth, we are unable to issue any further subordinated debt.. <U+FEFF>. As of December 31, 2017, we have a substantial amount of debt with variable interest rates. We may experience material increases in our interest expense as a result of increases in general interest rate levels.. <U+FEFF>. In addition, our indebtedness imposes restrictions that limit our discretion with regard to certain business matters, including our ability to engage in consolidations and mergers and our ability to transfer and lease certain of our properties. Such restrictions could make it more difficult for us to expand, finance our operations and engage in other business activities that may be in our interest.. <U+FEFF>. Our ability to comply with these and any other provisions of such agreements will be affected by changes in our operating and financial performance, changes in business conditions or results of operations, adverse regulatory developments or other events beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants could result in a default, which could cause our indebtedness to become due and payable. If the maturity of our indebtedness were accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds to pay such indebtedness. Any additional indebtedness we may incur in the future may subject us to similar or even more restrictive conditions.. <U+FEFF>. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures in the future, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, which could have an adverse effect on our business.. <U+FEFF>. If our internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, we may not be able to provide reliable financial information. Because we are a smaller reporting company, we are not required to obtain, nor have we voluntarily obtained, an auditor attestation regarding the effectiveness of our controls as of December 31, 2017. Therefore, as of December 31, 2017, we have only performed management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls and management has determined that our internal controls are effective as of December 31, 2017. Any failure to maintain effective controls in the future could adversely affect our business or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Such non-compliance could also result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. In addition, perceptions of our business among customers, suppliers, rating agencies, lenders, investors, securities analysts and others could be adversely affected.. <U+FEFF>. Accounting rules for certain of our transactions are highly complex and involve significant judgment and assumptions. Changes in accounting interpretations or assumptions could adversely impact our financial statements.. <U+FEFF>. Accounting rules for transfers of financial assets, income taxes, compensation arrangements including share based compensation, securitization transactions, consolidation of variable interest entities, determining the fair value of financial instruments and other aspects of our operations are highly complex and involve significant judgment and assumptions. These complexities could lead to delay in preparation of our financial information. Changes in accounting interpretations or assumptions could materially impact our financial statements.. <U+FEFF>. 28. Table Of Contents. We may change our investment strategy, hedging strategy, asset allocation and operational policies without our stockholders' consent, which may result in riskier investments and adversely affect the market value of our Common Stock.. <U+FEFF>. We may change our investment strategy, hedging strategy, asset allocation and/or operational policies at any time without the consent of our stockholders. A change in our investment or hedging strategy may increase our exposure to various risks including interest rate and exchange rate fluctuations. Furthermore, our board of directors will determine our operational policies and may amend or revise our policies, including polices with respect to our acquisitions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions, or our board may approve transactions that deviate from these policies without a vote of, or notice to, our stockholders. Operational policy changes could adversely affect the market value of our Common Stock.. <U+FEFF>. Maintenance of our Investment Company Act exemption imposes limits on our operations, and loss of our Investment Company Act exemption would adversely affect our operations.. <U+FEFF>. We seek to conduct our operations so that we are not required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. Section 3(a)(l)(C) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the \"Investment Company Act\"), defines an \"investment company\" as any issuer that is engaged or proposes to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and owns or proposes to acquire investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of the issuer's total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. Excluded from the term \"investment securities,\" among other things, are securities issued by majority-owned subsidiaries that are not themselves investment companies and are not relying on the exception from the definition of investment company set forth in Section 3(c)(l) or Section 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act.. <U+FEFF>. We are a holding company that conducts our business primarily through the Operating LLC as a majority owned subsidiary. Whether or not we qualify under the 40% test is primarily based on whether the securities we hold in the Operating LLC are investment securities. If we were required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we would become subject to substantial regulation with respect to our capital structure (including our ability to use leverage), management, operations, transactions with affiliated persons (as defined in the Investment Company Act) and other matters. Such limitations could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. As of December 31, 2017, we are in compliance with and meet the Section 3(a)(1)(C) exclusion.. <U+FEFF>. Insurance may be inadequate to cover risks facing the Company.. <U+FEFF>. Our operations and financial results are subject to risks and uncertainties related to our use of a combination of insurance, self-insured retention and self-insurance for a number of risks, including most significantly: property and casualty, workers' compensation, errors and omissions liability, general liability and the portion of employee-related health care benefits plans we fund, among others.. <U+FEFF>. While we endeavor to purchase insurance coverage that is appropriate to our assessment of risk, we are unable to predict with certainty the frequency, nature or magnitude of claims for direct or consequential damages. Our business may be negatively affected if in the future our insurance proves to be inadequate or unavailable. In addition, insurance claims may harm our reputation or divert management resources away from operating our business.. <U+FEFF>. Risks Related to Our Industry. <U+FEFF>. The soundness of other financial institutions and intermediaries affects us.. <U+FEFF>. We face the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries that we use to facilitate our securities transactions. As a result of the consolidation over the years among clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses, our exposure to certain financial intermediaries has increased and could affect our ability to find adequate and cost-effective alternatives should the need arise. Any failure, termination or constraint of these intermediaries could adversely affect our ability to execute transactions, service our clients and manage our exposure to risk.. <U+FEFF>. Our ability to engage in routine trading and funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, funding, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mortgage originators and other institutional clients. Furthermore, although we do not hold any European sovereign debt, we may do business with and be exposed to financial institutions that have been affected by the recent European sovereign debt crisis. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about the financial condition of, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have historically led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover. 29. Table Of Contents. the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. Although we have not suffered any material or significant losses as a result of the failure of any financial counterparty, any such losses in the future may materially adversely affect our results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. We operate in a highly regulated industry and may face restrictions on, and examination of, the way we conduct certain of our operations.. <U+FEFF>. Our business is subject to extensive government and other regulation, and our relationship with our broker-dealer clients may subject us to increased regulatory scrutiny. These regulations are designed to protect the interests of the investing public generally rather than our stockholders and may result in limitations on our activities. Governmental and self-regulatory organizations, including the SEC, FINRA, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and other agencies and securities exchanges such as the NYSE and NYSE American regulate the U.S. financial services industry, and regulate certain of our operations in the U.S. Some of our international operations are subject to similar regulations in their respective jurisdictions, including rules promulgated by the FCA, which apply to entities which are authorized and regulated by the FCA. These regulatory bodies are responsible for safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and protecting the interests of investors in those markets. In addition, all records of registered investment advisors and broker-dealers are subject at any time, and from time to time, to examination by the SEC. Some aspects of the business that are subject to extensive regulation and/or examination by regulatory agencies, include:. <U+FEFF>.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsales methods, trading procedures and valuation practices;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinvestment decision making processes and compensation practices;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tuse and safekeeping of client funds and securities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe manner in which we deal with clients;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcapital requirements;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfinancial and reporting practices;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequired record keeping and record retention procedures;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe licensing of employees;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe conduct of directors, officers, employees and affiliates;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsystems and control requirements;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tconflicts of interest;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trestrictions on marketing, gifts and entertainment; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tclient identification and anti-money laundering requirements.. <U+FEFF>. The SEC, FINRA, the FCA and various other domestic and international regulatory agencies also have stringent rules and regulations with respect to the maintenance of specific levels of net capital by broker-dealers. Generally, in the U.S., a broker-dealer's net capital is defined as its net worth, plus qualified subordinated debt, less deductions for certain types of assets. If these net capital rules are changed or expanded, or if there is an unusually large charge against net capital, our operations that require the intensive use of capital would be limited. Also, our ability to withdraw capital from our regulated subsidiaries is subject to restrictions, which in turn could limit our ability or that of our subsidiaries to pay dividends, repay debt, make distributions and redeem or purchase shares of our Common Stock or other equity interests in our subsidiaries. A large operating loss or charge against net capital could adversely affect our ability to expand or even maintain our expected levels of business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we may become subject to net capital requirements in other foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. While we expect to maintain levels of capital in excess of regulatory minimums, we cannot predict our future capital needs or our ability to obtain additional financing.. <U+FEFF>. If we or any of our subsidiaries fail to comply with any of these laws, rules or regulations, we or such subsidiary may be subject to censure, significant fines, cease-and-desist orders, suspension of business, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of registrations with FINRA, withdrawal of authorizations from the FCA or revocation of registrations with other similar international agencies to whose regulation we are subject, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. The adverse publicity arising from the imposition of sanctions against us by regulators, even if the amount of such sanctions is small, could harm our reputation and cause us to lose existing clients or fail to gain new clients.. <U+FEFF>. The authority to operate as a broker-dealer in a jurisdiction is dependent on the registration or authorization in that jurisdiction or the maintenance of a proper exemption from such registration or authorization. Our ability to comply with all applicable laws and rules is largely dependent on our compliance, credit approval, audit and reporting systems and procedures, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Any growth or expansion of our business may create additional strain on our compliance, credit approval, audit and reporting systems and procedures and could result in increased costs to maintain and improve such systems and procedures.. <U+FEFF>. In addition, new laws or regulations or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to us and our clients may adversely affect our business, and our ability to function in this environment will depend on our ability to constantly monitor and react to these changes. Such changes may cause us to change the way we conduct our business, both in the U.S. and internationally. The government agencies that regulate us have broad powers to investigate and enforce compliance and punish. 30. Table Of Contents. noncompliance with their rules, regulations and industry standards of practice. If we and our directors, officers and employees fail to comply with the rules and regulations of these government agencies, we and they may be subject to claims or actions by such agencies.. <U+FEFF>. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm, either of which could seriously harm our business.. <U+FEFF>. We face substantial regulatory and litigation risks and conflicts of interests, and may face legal liability and reduced revenues and profitability if our business is not regarded as compliant or for other reasons. We are subject to extensive regulation, and many aspects of our business will subject us to substantial risks of liability. We engage in activities in connection with (1) the evaluation, negotiation, structuring, marketing, and sales and management of our investment funds and financial products, (2) our Capital Markets segment, (3) our asset management operations, and (4) our investment activities. Our activities may subject us to the risk of significant legal liabilities under securities or other laws for material omissions or material false or misleading statements made in connection with securities offerings and other transactions. In addition, to the extent our clients, or investors in our investment funds and financial products, suffer losses, they may claim those losses resulting from our or our officers', directors', employees', or agents' or affiliates' breach of contract, fraud, negligence, willful misconduct or other similar misconduct, and may bring actions against us under federal or state securities or other applicable laws. Dissatisfied clients may also make claims regarding quality of trade execution, improperly settled trades, or mismanagement against us. We may become subject to these claims as the result of failures or malfunctions of electronic trading platforms or other brokerage services, including failures or malfunctions of third party providers' systems which are beyond our control, and third parties may seek recourse against us for any losses. In addition, investors may claim breaches of collateral management agreements, which could lead to our termination as collateral manager under such agreements.. <U+FEFF>. Following the start of the financial crisis in 2007, the volume of claims and amount of damages claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial advisors and asset managers increased. With respect to the asset management business, we make investment decisions on behalf of our clients that could result in, and in some instances in the past have resulted in, substantial losses. In addition, as a manager, we are responsible for clients' compliance with regulatory requirements. Investment decisions we make on behalf of clients could cause such clients to fail to comply with regulatory requirements and could result in substantial losses. Although the management agreements generally include broad indemnities and provisions designed to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services, these provisions may not protect us or may not be enforced in all cases.. <U+FEFF>. In addition, we are exposed to risks of litigation or investigation relating to transactions which present conflicts of interest that are not properly addressed. In such actions, we could be obligated to bear legal, settlement and other costs (which may be in excess of available insurance coverage). Also, with a workforce consisting of many very highly paid professionals, we may face the risk of lawsuits relating to claims for compensation, which may individually or in the aggregate be significant in amount. Similarly, certain corporate events, such as a reduction in our workforce or employee separations, could also result in additional litigation or arbitration. In addition, as a public company, we are subject to the risk of investigation or litigation by regulators or our public stockholders arising from an array of possible claims, including investor dissatisfaction with the performance of our business or our share price, allegations of misconduct by our officers and directors or claims that we inappropriately dealt with conflicts of interest or investment allocations. In addition, we may incur significant expenses in defending claims, even those without merit. If any claims brought against us result in a finding of substantial legal liability and/or require us to incur all or a portion of the costs arising out of litigation or investigation, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Such litigation or investigation, whether resolved in our favor or not or ultimately settled, could cause significant reputational harm, which could seriously harm our business.. <U+FEFF>. The competitive pressures we face as a result of operating in a highly competitive market could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. A number of entities conduct asset management, origination, investment, and broker-dealer activities. We compete with public and private funds, REITS, commercial and investment banks, savings and loan institutions, mortgage bankers, insurance companies, institutional bankers, governmental bodies, commercial finance companies, traditional asset managers, brokerage firms and other entities.. <U+FEFF>. Many firms offer similar and/or additional products and services to the same types of clients that we target or may target in the future. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have more relevant experience, have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources, and have more personnel than we have. There are few barriers to entry, including a relatively low cost of entering these lines of business, and the successful efforts of new entrants into our expected lines of business, including major banks and other financial institutions, may result in increased competition. Other industry participants may, from time to time, seek to recruit our investment professionals and other employees away from us.. <U+FEFF>. With respect to our asset management activities, our competitors may have more extensive distribution capabilities, more effective marketing strategies, more attractive investment vehicle structures and broader name recognition than we do. Further, other. 31. Table Of Contents. investment managers may offer services at more competitive prices than we do, which could put downward pressure on our fee structure. With respect to our origination and investment activities, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds, enhanced operating efficiencies, and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than we can. The competitive pressures we face, if not effectively managed, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive asset management, origination and investment opportunities and, therefore, may not be able to identify and pursue opportunities that are consistent with our business objectives. Competition may limit the number of suitable investment opportunities offered to us. It may also result in higher prices, lower yields and a narrower spread of yields over our borrowing costs, making it more difficult for us to acquire new investments on attractive terms. In addition, competition for desirable investments could delay the investment in desirable assets, which may in turn reduce our earnings per share.. <U+FEFF>. With respect to our broker-dealer activities, our revenues could be adversely affected if large institutional clients that we have increase the amount of trading they do directly with each other rather than through our broker-dealers, decrease the amount of trading they do with our broker-dealers because they decide to trade more with our competitors, decrease their trading of certain over-the-counter (\"OTC\") products in favor of exchange-traded products, or hire in-house professionals to handle trading that our broker-dealers would otherwise be engaged to do.. <U+FEFF>. We have experienced intense price competition in our fixed income brokerage business in recent years. Some competitors may offer brokerage services to clients at lower prices than we offer, which may force us to reduce our prices or to lose market share and revenue. In addition, we intend to focus primarily on providing brokerage services in markets for less commoditized financial instruments. As the markets for these instruments become more commoditized, we could lose market share to other inter-dealer brokers, exchanges and electronic multi-dealer brokers who specialize in providing brokerage services in more commoditized markets. If a financial instrument for which we provide brokerage services becomes listed on an exchange or if an exchange introduces a competing product to the products we broker in the OTC market, the need for our services in relation to that instrument could be significantly reduced. Further, the recent consolidation among exchange firms, and expansion by these firms into derivative and other non-equity trading markets, will increase competition for customer trades and place additional pricing pressure on commissions and spreads.. <U+FEFF>. Employee misconduct or error, which can be difficult to detect and deter, could harm us by impairing our ability to attract and retain clients and by subjecting us to significant legal liability and reputational harm.. <U+FEFF>. There have been a number of highly-publicized cases involving fraud, trading on material non-public information, or other misconduct by employees and others in the financial services industry, and there is a risk that our employees could engage in misconduct that adversely affects our business. For example, we may be subject to the risk of significant legal liabilities under securities or other laws for our employees' material omissions or materially false or misleading statements in connection with securities and other transactions. In addition, our advisory business requires that we deal with confidential matters of great significance to our clients. If our employees were to improperly use or disclose confidential information provided by our clients, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and could suffer serious harm to our reputation, financial position, current client relationships and ability to attract future clients. We are also subject to extensive regulation under securities laws and other laws in connection with our asset management business. Failure to comply with these legislative and regulatory requirements by any of our employees could adversely affect us and our clients. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and any precautions taken by us to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases.. <U+FEFF>. Furthermore, employee errors, including mistakes in executing, recording or reporting transactions for clients (such as entering into transactions that clients may disavow and refuse to settle) could expose us to financial losses and could seriously harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. The risk of employee error or miscommunication may be greater for products that are new or have non-standardized terms.. <U+FEFF>. Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure and Ownership of Our Common Stock. <U+FEFF>. We could repurchase shares of our Common Stock at price levels considered excessive, the amount of our Common Stock we repurchase may decrease from historical levels, or we may not repurchase any additional shares of our Common Stock in the future.. <U+FEFF>. During 2016 and 2017,  22,068 and 15,270 shares, respectively, were repurchased and retired by us both in accordance with our Rule 10b5-1 trading plan (the \"10b5-1 Plan\") and through privately negotiated repurchase transactions. We could repurchase shares of our Common Stock at price levels considered excessive, thereby spending more cash on such repurchases as deemed reasonable and effectively retiring fewer shares than would be retired if repurchases were effected at lower prices.  Further, our future repurchases of. 32. Table Of Contents. shares of our Common Stock, if any, and the number of shares of Common Stock we may repurchase will depend upon our financial condition, results of operations and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. There can be no assurance that we will continue our practice of repurchasing shares of our Common Stock or that we will have the financial resources to repurchase shares of our Common Stock in the future.. <U+FEFF>. See note 18 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding the 10b5-1 Plan.. <U+FEFF>. We are a holding company whose primary asset is membership units in the Operating LLC, and we are dependent on distributions from the Operating LLC to pay taxes and other obligations.. <U+FEFF>. We are a holding company whose primary asset is membership units in the Operating LLC. Since the Operating LLC is a limited liability company taxed as a partnership, we, as a member of the Operating LLC, could incur tax obligations as a result of our allocable share of the income from the operations of the Operating LLC. In addition, we have convertible senior debt and junior subordinated notes outstanding. The Operating LLC will pay distributions to us in amounts necessary to satisfy our tax obligations and regularly scheduled payments of interest in connection with our convertible senior debt and our junior subordinated notes, and we are dependent on these distributions from the Operating LLC in order to generate the funds necessary to meet these obligations and liabilities. Industry conditions and financial, business and other factors will affect our ability to generate the cash flows we need to make these distributions. There may be circumstances under which the Operating LLC may be restricted from paying dividends to us under applicable law or regulation (for example due to Delaware limited liability company act limitations on the Operating LLC's ability to make distributions if liabilities of the Operating LLC after the distribution would exceed the value of the Operating LLC's assets).. <U+FEFF>. As a holding company that does not conduct business operations in its own right, substantially all of the assets of the Company are comprised of our majority ownership interest in the Operating LLC. The Company's ability to pay dividends to our stockholders will be dependent on distributions we receive from the Operating LLC and subject to the Operating LLC's operating agreement (the \"Operating LLC Agreement\"). The amount and timing of distributions by the Operating LLC will be at the discretion of the Operating LLC's board of managers, which is comprised of the same individuals that serve on our board of directors.. <U+FEFF>. Certain subsidiaries of the Operating LLC have restrictions on the withdrawal of capital and otherwise in making distributions and loans. JVB is subject to net capital restrictions imposed by the SEC and FINRA, which require certain minimum levels of net capital to remain in JVB. In addition, these restrictions could potentially impose notice requirements or limit the Company's ability to withdraw capital above the required minimum amounts (excess capital) whether through distribution or loan. CCFL is regulated by the FCA in the United Kingdom and must maintain certain minimum levels of capital but will allow withdrawal of amounts in excess of the minimum capital without restriction.. <U+FEFF>. Daniel G. Cohen, our chairman, has ownership interests in the Operating LLC and competing duties to other entities that could create potential conflicts of interest and may result in decisions that are not in the best interests of other Cohen & Company Inc. stockholders.. <U+FEFF>. Daniel G. Cohen, our chairman, through an entity he wholly owns, Cohen Bros. Financial, LLC (\"CBF\"), owns 4,983,557 units, or 29.4%, of the membership interests in the Operating LLC and has a majority of the voting power of the Operating LLC members other than Cohen & Company Inc. Additionally, Mr. Cohen owns 8.6% of our Common Stock, and, as noted above, Mr. Cohen may control certain actions of the Company. As an owner of interests in the Operating LLC, Mr. Cohen may have interests that differ from the stockholders of the Company, including in circumstances in which there may be tax consequence to the members of the Operating LLC. As a result of his ownership in both the Operating LLC and the Company, it is possible that Mr. Cohen as a shareholder of the Company could approve or reject actions based on his own interests as a stockholder that may or may not be in the best interests of the other the Company's stockholders.. <U+FEFF>. Daniel G. Cohen and other executive officers and directors exercise significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval.. <U+FEFF>. In addition to the 8.6% of our Common Stock outstanding as of December 31, 2017 beneficially owned by Daniel G. Cohen, our chairman, Mr. Cohen beneficially owns 4,983,557 shares of our Series E preferred stock, which have no economic rights, but entitle him to vote together with our stockholders on all matters presented to the stockholders.. <U+FEFF>. The Series E Preferred Stock held by Mr. Cohen give him the same voting rights he would have if all of the Operating LLC membership units held by him were exchanged for Common Stock on a ten for one basis and effectively gives Mr. Cohen voting rights at the Company in the same proportion as his economic interest (as his membership units of the Operating LLC do not carry voting rights at the Company level).  The Series E Preferred Stock effectively enables Mr. Cohen to exercise approximately 29.1% of. 33. Table Of Contents. the voting power of the Company's total shares outstanding that were entitled to vote as of December 31, 2017 (in addition to the voting power he holds through his common share ownership).. <U+FEFF>. Except with respect to certain agreements relating to the election of Mr. Cohen to our board of directors and to the board of managers of the operating LLC, there are no voting agreements or other arrangements or understandings among Mr. Cohen, and our other directors and executive officers with respect to our equity securities; however, to the extent that Mr. Cohen and our other directors and executive officers vote their shares in the same manner, their combined stock ownership and voting rights will have a significant or even decisive effect on the election of all of the directors and the approval of matters that are presented to our stockholders. Collectively, Mr. Cohen and our directors and officers control approximately 54.6% of our total shares outstanding entitled to vote. Their ownership may discourage someone from making a significant equity investment in us, even if we needed the investment to operate our business. The size of their combined stock holdings could be a significant factor in delaying or preventing a change of control transaction that other of our stockholders may deem to be in their best interests, such as a transaction in which the other stockholders would receive a premium for their shares over their then current market prices.. <U+FEFF>. On several occasions, our board of directors has declared cash dividends. Any future distributions to our stockholders will depend upon certain factors affecting our operating results, some of which are beyond our control.. <U+FEFF>. Our ability to make and sustain cash distributions is based on many factors, including the return on our investments, operating expense levels and certain restrictions imposed by Maryland law. Some of these factors are beyond our control and a change in any such factor could affect our ability to make distributions in the future. We may not be able to make distributions. Our stockholders should rely on increases, if any, in the price of our Common Stock for any return on their investment. Furthermore, we are dependent on distributions from the Operating LLC to be able to make distributions. See the risk factor above titled \"We are a holding company whose primary asset is membership units in the Operating LLC and we are dependent on distributions from the Operating LLC to pay taxes and other obligations.\". <U+FEFF>. Future sales of our Common Stock in the public market could lower the price of our Common Stock and impair our ability to raise funds in future securities offerings.. <U+FEFF>. Future sales of a substantial number of shares of our Common Stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the then prevailing market price of our Common Stock and could make it more difficult for us to raise funds in the future through a public offering of our securities.. <U+FEFF>. Your percentage ownership in the Company may be diluted in the future.. <U+FEFF>. Your percentage ownership in the Company may be diluted in the future because of equity awards that have been, or may be, granted to our directors, officers and employees. We have adopted equity compensation plans that provide for the grant of equity based awards, including restricted stock, stock options and other equity-based awards to our directors, officers and other employees, advisors and consultants. At December 31, 2017, we had 76,932  shares of restricted stock, 50,000 of restricted units, and 319,826 stock options outstanding to employees and directors of the Company and there were 153,957 shares available for future awards under our equity compensation plans. Vesting of restricted stock and stock option grants is generally contingent upon performance conditions and/or service conditions. Vesting of those shares of restricted units and stock would dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. Equity awards will continue to be a source of compensation for employees and directors.. <U+FEFF>. If we raise additional capital, we expect it will be necessary for us to issue additional equity or convertible debt securities. If we issue equity or convertible debt securities, the price at which we offer such securities may not bear any relationship to our value, the net tangible book value per share may decrease, the percentage ownership of our current stockholders would be diluted, and any equity securities we may issue in such offering or upon conversion of convertible debt securities issued in such offering, may have rights, preferences or privileges with respect to liquidation, dividends, redemption, voting and other matters that are senior to or more advantageous than our Common Stock. If we finance acquisitions by issuing equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, our existing stockholders will also be diluted.. <U+FEFF>. The issuance of the shares of the Company's Common Stock upon the conversion, if any, of the notes originally purchased by Mead Park Capital and EBC, as assignee of CBF, a portion of which was subsequently sold to the Edward E. Cohen IRA, may cause substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and may cause the price of our Common Stock to decline.. <U+FEFF>. In connection with the investments by Mead Park Capital Partners, LLC (\"Mead Park Capital\") and EBC 2013 Family Trust (\"EBC\"), as assignee of CBF, in September 2013 pursuant to the definitive agreements, the Company issued $8,247,501 in aggregate principal amount of the 8% convertible senior promissory notes (the 2013 Convertible Notes\"). The 2013 Convertible Notes are convertible into a maximum aggregate amount of 297,195 shares of the Company's Common Stock assuming none of the interest under the 2013 Convertible Notes is paid to the holders thereof in cash. If the holders of the 2013 Convertible Notes elect to convert. 34. Table Of Contents. such notes into shares of our Common Stock, our existing stockholders may be substantially diluted and the price of our Common Stock may decline.. <U+FEFF>. The resale of the shares of our Common Stock by the Edward E. Cohen IRA and/or EBC could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at a price that we might otherwise wish to effect sales.. <U+FEFF>. In connection the registration rights agreement, dated May 9, 2013, which the Company entered into with Mead Park Capital and CBF, the Company filed a registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC registering the resale of all of the shares of our Common Stock issued or issuable to Mead Park Capital and EBC, as assignee of CBF, under the definitive agreements and the 2013 Convertible Notes, respectively. On August 28, 2015, Mead Park Capital sold $4,385,628 of the 2013 Convertible Notes and 146,188 shares of Common Stock to the Edward E. Cohen IRA of which Edward E. Cohen is the benefactor. Edward E. Cohen is the father of Daniel G. Cohen. The sale of such shares of our Common Stock by the Edward E. Cohen IRA could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at a price that we might otherwise wish to effect sales.. <U+FEFF>. We may not be able to generate sufficient taxable income to fully realize our deferred tax asset, which would also have to be reduced if U.S. federal income tax rates are lowered.. <U+FEFF>. If we are unable to generate sufficient taxable income prior to the expiration of our NOLs, the NOLs would expire unused. Our projections of future taxable income required to fully realize the recorded amount of the net deferred tax asset reflect numerous assumptions about our operating businesses and investments, and are subject to change as conditions change specific to our business units, investments or general economic conditions. Changes that are adverse to us could result in the need to increase our deferred tax asset valuation allowance resulting in a charge to results of operations and a decrease to total stockholders' equity. In addition, any decrease in the federal statutory tax rate, or other changes in federal tax statutes, could also cause a reduction in the economic benefit of the NOL currently available to us.. <U+FEFF>. The Maryland General Corporation Law (the \"MGCL\"), provisions in our charter and bylaws, and our stockholder rights plan may prevent takeover attempts that could be beneficial to our stockholders.. <U+FEFF>. Provisions of the MGCL and our charter and bylaws could discourage a takeover of us even if a change of control would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. These statutory, charter and bylaw provisions include the following:. <U+FEFF>.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe MGCL generally requires the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all votes entitled to be cast on the matter to approve a merger, consolidation, or share exchange involving us or the transfer of all or substantially all of our assets;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour board of directors has the power to classify and reclassify authorized and unissued shares of our Common Stock or preferred stock and, subject to certain restrictions in the Operating LLC Agreement, authorize the issuance of a class or series of Common Stock or preferred stock without stockholder approval;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour charter may be amended only if the amendment is declared advisable by our board of directors and approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of our Common Stock entitled to cast at least two-thirds of all of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ta director may be removed from office at any time with or without cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of our Common Stock entitled to cast at least two-thirds of the votes of the stock entitled to be cast in the election of directors;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tan advance notice procedure for stockholder proposals to be brought before an annual meeting of our stockholders and nominations of persons for election to our board of directors at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tno stockholder is entitled to cumulate votes at any election of directors; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour stockholders may take action in lieu of a meeting with respect to any actions that are required or permitted to be taken by our stockholders at any annual or special meeting of stockholders only by unanimous consent.. <U+FEFF>. The market price of our Common Stock may be volatile and may be affected by market conditions beyond our control.. <U+FEFF>. The market price of our Common Stock is subject to significant fluctuations in response to, among other factors:. <U+FEFF>.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tvariations in our operating results and market conditions specific to our business;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe emergence of new competitors or new technologies;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\toperating and market price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in our board or management;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsales or purchases of our Common Stock by insiders;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcommencement of, or involvement in, litigation;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in governmental regulations; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgeneral economic conditions and slow or negative growth of related markets.. <U+FEFF>. 35. Table Of Contents. In addition, if the market for stocks in our industry, or the stock market in general, experience a loss of investor confidence, the market price of our Common Stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause the price of our Common Stock to fall and may expose us to lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to the board of directors and management.. <U+FEFF>. Our Common Stock may be delisted, which may have a material adverse effect on the liquidity and value of our Common Stock.. <U+FEFF>. To maintain our listing on the NYSE American, we must meet certain financial and liquidity criteria. The market price of our Common Stock has been and may continue to be subject to significant fluctuation as a result of periodic variations in our revenues and results of operations. If we violate the NYSE American listing requirements, our Common Stock may be delisted. If we fail to meet any of the NYSE American's listing standards, our Common Stock may be delisted. In addition, our board may determine that the cost of maintaining our listing on a national securities exchange outweighs the benefits of such listing. A delisting of our Common Stock from the NYSE American may materially impair our stockholders' ability to buy and sell our Common Stock and could have an adverse effect on the market price of, and the efficiency of the trading market for, our Common Stock. In addition, the delisting of our Common Stock could significantly impair our ability to raise capital.. <U+FEFF>"
