[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Please carefully consider the following risk factors which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. The risk factors described below are not the only ones we face. Risks and uncertainties not known to us currently, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. We have substantial indebtedness, which may decrease our flexibility, increase our borrowing costs and adversely affect our liquidity.. We currently have (i) $11.4 million in senior secured financing ( the “Senior Credit Facility”) under the Loan Agreement, dated as of June 27, 2012 and as amended on February 19, 2016 (the \"Amended Loan Agreement\"), by and among the Company, MDC, AgroLabs, IHT Health Products, Inc., IHT Properties Corp. (“IHT Properties”), and Vitamin Factory (collectively, the “Borrowers”) and PNC Bank, National Association (\"PNC\"), (ii) a $5.4 million Amended and Restated Convertible Promissory Note issued by the Company to CD Financial LLC (\"CD Financial\") on June 27, 2012 (the \"CD Convertible Note\") pursuant to the Amended and Restated Securities Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 27, 2012, and as amended on February 19, 2016, between the Company and CD Financial (the \"CD SPA\"), and (iii) a $1.7 million Promissory Note issued by the Company to CD Financial on June 27, 2012 and as amended on February 19, 2016, pursuant to the CD SPA (the documents referred to in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) immediately above are referred to herein as the \"Financing Agreements\").. In July 2018, CD Financial exercised its conversion right pursuant to the CD SPA and in accordance with Section 3 (b) of the CD Convertible Note to convert the CD Convertible Note into common stock of the Company (“Common Shares”).  The CD Convertible Note was convertible at the option of CD Financial into Common Shares at a conversion price of $0.65 per share, subject to customary adjustments.  CD Financial exercised its conversion right with respect to the entire principal amount due under the CD Convertible Note. The Company issued 8,230,769 Common Shares to CD Financial at a conversion price of $0.65 per Common Share and satisfied the $5.4 million CD Convertible Note in full.. Our level of indebtedness can have important consequences. For example, it may require a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations for the payment of principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness and reduce our ability to use our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate requirements or to pay dividends; and limit our flexibility to adjust to changing business and market conditions and make us more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic conditions as compared to our competitors.. There are various financial covenants and other restrictions in the Financing Agreements. If we fail to comply with any of these requirements, the related indebtedness (and other unrelated indebtedness) could become due and payable prior to its stated maturity. A default under any Financing Agreement may also significantly affect our ability to obtain additional or alternative financing. For example, PNC's ongoing obligation to extend credit under the Amended Loan Agreement is dependent upon our compliance with these covenants and restrictions.. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness will depend on our operating and financial performance, which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors beyond our control. Our inability to refinance our indebtedness when necessary or to do so upon attractive terms would materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ongoing results of operations.. -9-. Our revenue could decline significantly if we lose one or more of our most significant customers, which could have a significant adverse impact on us.. A significant portion of our revenues are concentrated among three customers, Life Extension, Herbalife (customers in our Contract Manufacturing Segment) and Costco (a customer of our Branded Proprietary Products Segment). For each of the fiscal years ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, approximately 91% of our consolidated net sales were derived from the two major customers in our Contract Manufacturing Segment. The loss of these customers could have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. We have incurred losses and negative cash flows and could incur losses and negative cash flow in the near term.. Although we have achieved operating income for the past six fiscal years ended June 30, 2018, we have had negative operating cash flows for three out of the past six years and could incur net losses in the near term as well as generate negative cash flow until we can produce consistent sufficient revenues to cover our costs through the sale of our products.. In the current fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, we had net income of approximately $0.7 million and cash flows from our operating activities of approximately $1.2 million. At June 30, 2018, we had cash of approximately $0.2 million and a working capital deficit of approximately $4.0 million. Our working capital is lowered by the $4.9 million outstanding under our revolving line of credit with PNC Bank, National Association which is not due until February 2020, but is classified as current due to a subjective acceleration clause that could cause the advances to become currently due and by the current classification of our CD Convertible Note in the amount of $5.4 million as a result of CD Financial exercising its right to convert the CD Convertible Note to equity and the Company issuing shares to CD Financial on July 31, 2018 in satisfaction in full of the $5.4 million CD Convertible Note. (See Note 5 to the financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K). Although we have been able to achieve profitability for the past six fiscal years, we have had negative cash flows from our operating activities in three out of the past six fiscal years ended June 30, 2018. We cannot assure that we will remain profitable, although we have taken several actions to correct the past losses, including maintaining sales above $40 million for the past three fiscal years ended June 30, 2018, and maintaining our selling and administrative costs at approximately 7% of consolidated net sales in each of the fiscal years ended June 30, 2018 and 2017. Additionally, the conversion of the CD Convertible Note in July 2018 will eliminate approximately $0.3 million in annual interest costs in future financial periods.. Complying with new and existing government regulation, both in the U.S. and abroad, could increase our costs significantly and adversely affect our financial results.. The processing, formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, advertising, distribution and sale of our products are subject to regulation by several U.S. federal agencies, including the FDA, the FTC, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Department of Agriculture and the EPA, as well as various state, local and international laws and agencies of the localities in which our products are sold. Government regulations may prevent or delay the introduction, or require the reformulation, of our products. Some agencies, such as the FDA or state agencies, could require us to remove a particular product from the market, delay or prevent the import of raw materials for the manufacture of our products, or otherwise disrupt the marketing of our products. Any such government actions would result in additional costs to us, including lost revenues from any additional products that we are required to remove from the market, which additional costs could be material. Any such government actions also could lead to liability, substantial costs and reduced growth prospects. Moreover, there can be no assurance that new laws or regulations imposing more stringent regulatory requirements on the dietary supplement industry will not be enacted or issued. In addition, complying with adverse event reporting requirements imposes additional costs on us, which costs could become significant in the event more demanding reporting requirements are put into place.. Additional or more stringent regulations of dietary supplements and other products have been considered from time to time. These developments could require reformulation of certain products to meet new standards, recalls or discontinuance of certain products that cannot be reformulated, additional record-keeping requirements, increased documentation of the properties of certain products, additional or different labeling, additional scientific substantiation, adverse event reporting or other new requirements. These developments also could increase our costs significantly. For example, the FDA issued rules which became effective in 2008 that imposed substantial new regulatory requirements for dietary supplements, including GMPs. Congress also passed legislation requiring adverse event reporting and related record keeping which imposed additional costs on us. See Item 1. \"Description of Business—Government Regulations\" for additional information.. -10-. We may be exposed to legal proceedings initiated by regulators or third parties either in the United States or abroad which could increase our costs and adversely affect our reputation, revenues and operating income.. In the United States and abroad, non-compliance with relevant legislation can result in regulators bringing administrative or, in some cases, criminal proceedings. As manufacturers of nutraceutical products, our products are regulated by various governments and it is common for regulators to prosecute retailers and manufacturers for non-compliance with legislation governing foodstuffs and medicines. Failures by us or our subsidiaries to comply with applicable legislation could occur from time to time and prosecution for any such violations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Additionally, we are subject, from time to time, to claims by third parties under various legal theories. The defense of such claims, or any adverse outcome relating to any such claims, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and cash flows.. We depend on our senior management, the loss of whom would have an adverse effect on us.. We presently are dependent upon the executive abilities of our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, E. Gerald Kay, and our other executive officers. Our business and operations to date chiefly have been implemented under the direction of these individuals, who presently are, and in the future will be, responsible for the implementation of our anticipated plans and programs. The loss or unavailability of the services of one or more of our principal executives would have an adverse effect on us. We may encounter difficulty in our ability to recruit and ultimately hire any replacement or additional executive officers having similar background, experience and qualifications as those of our current executive officers.. There is no assurance that we will remain listed on an active trading market.. Our common stock is currently trading on the OTC Bulletin Board. From February 27, 2009 through September 22, 2009, our common stock was trading in the Pink Sheets. Prior to February 27, 2009, our common stock was listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, and there can be no assurance that we will, in the future, be able to meet all the requirements for reinstatement on that exchange. The delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Global Market has adversely affected, and may in the future continue to adversely affect, the liquidity and trading of our common stock.. We have entered into several transactions with entities controlled by some of our officers and directors, which could pose a conflict of interest.. We have several agreements and arrangements, described in our previous SEC filings and to be described in our proxy statement for our 2018 annual meeting of stockholders, including the lease of real property from Vitamin Realty Associates, L.L.C. (“Vitamin Realty”), the sale of our financial debt securities, and issuance of our common stock, which involved transactions with entities significantly owned by members of the Kay family and other of our significant shareholders and/or executive officers, who collectively own a majority of our shares of common stock. Although we believe that these transactions were advantageous to us and were on terms no less favorable to us than could have been obtained from unaffiliated third parties, transactions with related parties can potentially pose a conflict of interest.. Our Executive Officers and Directors have majority voting power and may take actions that may not be in the best interest of other stockholders, but in their own interest.. Our Executive Officers and Directors beneficially own collectively approximately 71% of our outstanding shares of commons stock as of September 12, 2018. If these stockholders act together, they would be able to exert significant control over our management and affairs since significant corporate transactions require stockholder approval. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may not be in the best interests of all our stockholders.. -11-. We have a staggered Board of Directors, which could impede an attempt to acquire the Company or remove our management.. Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes, each of which serves for a staggered term of three years. This division of our Board of Directors could have the effect of impeding an attempt to take over our company or change or remove management, since only one class will be elected annually. Thus, only approximately one-third of the existing Board of Directors could be replaced at any election of directors.. Our product liability insurance may be insufficient to cover possible claims against us.. Our company, like other manufacturers, wholesalers and distributors of vitamin and nutritional supplement products, faces an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims if, among other things, the use or ingestion of our products, results in sickness or injury. We currently maintain a product liability insurance policy that provides a total of $5.0 million of coverage per occurrence and $5.0 million of coverage in the aggregate. However, there can be no assurance that existing or future insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover any possible product liability risks or that such insurance will continue to be available to us on economically feasible terms.. Our nutraceutical products are manufactured using various raw materials consisting of vitamins, minerals, herbs, fruit extracts and other ingredients that we regard as safe when taken as recommended by us and that various scientific studies have suggested may provide health benefits. We could be adversely affected if any of our products or any similar products distributed by other companies should prove or be asserted to be harmful to consumers or should scientific studies provide unfavorable findings regarding the effectiveness of our products.. We may not be able to obtain raw materials used in certain of our manufactured products.. The principal raw materials used in the manufacturing process in the Company’s nutraceutical business are natural and synthetic vitamins, minerals, herbs, related nutritional supplements, gelatin capsules, coating materials, fruit extracts, fruit juices and the necessary components for packaging the finished products. The raw materials are available from numerous sources within the United States and abroad. The gelatin capsules, coating materials and packaging materials are similarly widely available. We generally purchase our raw materials, on a purchase order basis, without long-term commitments.. We have one principal supplier for our Other Nutraceutical Businesses segment, DSM Nutritional Products LLC. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with our main suppliers in the Contract Manufacturing Segment, we may not be able to find alternate sourcing of our raw materials or at the same pricing that we receive from our current suppliers and/or quickly enough to make timely shipments to our customers. These factors could decrease our sales and/or increase our cost of sales.. Current economic conditions may cause a decline in business and consumer spending which could adversely affect our business and financial performance.. Our operating results are impacted by the health of the North American economies. Our business and financial performance, including collection of our accounts receivable, recoverability of assets including investments, may be adversely affected by current and future economic conditions, such as a reduction in the availability of credit, financial market volatility, recession, etc. Additionally, we may experience difficulties in scaling our operations to react to economic pressures in the U.S.. -12-. We may incur significant professional service fees and other control costs that impact our financial condition.. As a publicly traded corporation, we incur certain costs to comply with regulatory requirements. If regulatory requirements were to become more stringent or if controls thought to be effective later fail, we may be forced to make additional expenditures, the amounts of which could be material. Some of our competitors are privately owned so their accounting and control costs can be a competitive disadvantage for us. Should our sales decline or if we are unsuccessful at increasing prices to cover higher expenditures for internal controls, audits, consultants and legal, our costs associated with regulatory compliance will rise as a percentage of sales.. Other issues and uncertainties may include:. <U+25CF>     New accounting pronouncements or changes in accounting policies; and. <U+25CF>     Legislation or other governmental action that detrimentally impacts our expenses or reduces sales by adversely affecting our customers."
