[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our Common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with the information included elsewhere in this Form 10-K and other documents we file with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material, but may not be the only risks to which Colfax might be exposed. Additional risks and uncertainties, which are currently unknown to us or that we do not currently consider to be material, may materially affect the business of Colfax and could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of the following risks were to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected, the value of our Common stock could decline and investors could lose all or part of the value of their investment in Colfax shares. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies, such as overall U.S. and non-U.S. economic and industry conditions, a global economic slowdown, geopolitical events, changes in laws or accounting rules, fluctuations in interest rates, terrorism, international conflicts, natural disasters or other disruptions of expected economic or business conditions. We operate in a continually changing business environment, and new risk factors emerge from time to time which we cannot predict. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business, including our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.. Risks Related to Our Business. Changes in the general economy and the cyclical nature of the markets that we serve could negatively impact the demand for our products and services and harm our operations and financial performance.. Colfax's financial performance depends, in large part, on conditions in the markets we serve and on the general condition of the global economy, which impacts these markets. Any sustained weakness in demand for our products and services resulting from a downturn of or uncertainty in the global economy could reduce our sales and profitability.. In addition, we believe that many of our customers and suppliers are reliant on liquidity from global credit markets and, in some cases, require external financing to purchase products or finance operations. If our customers lack liquidity or are unable to access the credit markets, it may impact customer demand for our products and services and we may not be able to collect amounts owed to us.. Further, our products are sold in many industries, some of which are cyclical and may experience periodic downturns. Cyclical weakness in the industries that we serve could lead to reduced demand for our products and affect our profitability and financial performance.. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A continued significant or sustained decline in the levels of new capital investment and maintenance expenditures by certain of our customers could reduce the demand for our products and services and harm our operations and financial performance.. Demand for our products and services depends significantly on the level of new capital investment and planned maintenance expenditures by certain of our customers. The level of new capital expenditures by our customers is dependent upon many factors, including general economic conditions, availability of credit, economic conditions and investment activities within their respective industries and expectations of future market behavior.  In addition, volatility in commodity prices can negatively affect the level of these new activities and can result in postponement of capital spending decisions or the delay or cancellation of existing orders.  For example, conditions in the oil and gas industry are highly cyclical and subject to factors beyond our control. We believe demand for our products and services by many of our customers, particularly those within the oil, gas and petrochemical end market, to be primarily profit-driven, and historically these customers have tended to delay large capital projects, including expensive maintenance and upgrades, when the markets in which they participate experience volatility, reduced returns, or general levels of low activity.  A reduction in demand for our products and services could result in the delay or cancellation of existing orders or lead to excess manufacturing capacity, which unfavorably impacts our absorption of fixed manufacturing costs. This reduced demand could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Acquisitions have formed a significant part of our growth strategy in the past and are expected to continue to do so. If we are unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates or successfully integrate the businesses we acquire, our growth strategy may not succeed.. 7. We intend to seek acquisition opportunities both to expand into new markets and to enhance our position in our existing markets. However, our ability to do so will depend on a number of steps, including our ability to:. • obtain debt or equity financing that we may need to complete proposed acquisitions;. • identify suitable acquisition candidates;. •   negotiate appropriate acquisition terms;. •   complete the proposed acquisitions; and. •   integrate the acquired business into our existing operations.. If we fail to achieve any of these steps, our growth strategy may not be successful.  In particular, a decline in our stock price has and may continue to make debt or equity financing more challenging to obtain.  This may inhibit our ability to acquire new businesses in the future.. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including risks related to integration, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions.. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, systems, controls, technologies, personnel, services and products of the acquired company, the potential loss of key employees, customers and distributors of the acquired company and the diversion of our management's attention from other business concerns. This is the case particularly in the fiscal quarters immediately following the completion of an acquisition because the operations of the acquired business are integrated into the acquiring business' operations during this period. We may not accurately anticipate all of the changing demands that any future acquisition may impose on our management, our operational and management information systems and our financial systems. The failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses in a timely manner, or at all, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, the anticipated benefits of an acquisition may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than we expect. Actual operating, technological, strategic and sales synergies, if achieved at all, may be less significant than we expect or may take longer to achieve than anticipated. If we are not able to realize the anticipated benefits and synergies expected from our acquisitions within a reasonable time, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. Acquisitions may result in significant integration costs, and unanticipated integration expense may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Integration efforts associated with our acquisitions may require significant capital and operating expense. Such expenses may include information technology integration fees, legal compliance costs, facility closure costs and other restructuring expenses. Significant unanticipated expenses associated with integration activities may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our acquisitions may expose us to significant unanticipated liabilities and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may underestimate or fail to discover liabilities relating to acquisitions during our due diligence investigations, and we, as the successor owner of an acquired company, might be responsible for those liabilities. Such liabilities could include employment, retirement or severance-related obligations under applicable law or other benefits arrangements, legal claims, tax liabilities, warranty or similar liabilities to customers, product liabilities and personal injury claims, claims related to infringement of third party intellectual property rights, environmental liabilities and claims by or amounts owed to vendors or other third parties. The indemnification and warranty provisions in our acquisition agreements may not fully protect us from the impact of undiscovered liabilities. Indemnities or warranties are often limited in scope, amount or duration, and may not fully cover the liabilities for which they were intended. The liabilities that are not covered by the limited indemnities or warranties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 8. We may require additional capital to finance our operating needs and to finance our growth. If the terms on which the additional capital is available are unsatisfactory, if the additional capital is not available at all or if we are not able to fully access credit under our credit agreement, we may not be able to pursue our growth strategy.. Our growth strategy will require additional capital investment to complete acquisitions, integrate the completed acquisitions into our existing operations and expand into new markets.. We intend to pay for future acquisitions using cash, capital stock, notes, assumption of indebtedness or any combination of the foregoing. To the extent that we do not generate sufficient cash internally to provide the capital we require to fund our growth strategy and future operations, we will require additional debt or equity financing. This additional financing may not be available or, if available, may not be on terms acceptable to us. Further, high volatility in the capital markets and in our stock price may make it difficult for us to access the capital markets at attractive prices, if at all. If we are unable to obtain sufficient additional capital in the future, it may limit our ability to fully implement our growth strategy.  Even if future debt financing is available, it may result in (i) increased interest expense, (ii) increased term loan payments, (iii) increased leverage and (iv) decreased income available to fund further acquisitions and expansion. It may also limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and make us more vulnerable to economic downturns. If future equity financing is available, issuances of our equity securities may significantly dilute our existing stockholders.. In addition, our credit facility agreement includes restrictive covenants which could limit our financial flexibility.  See. \"Our Credit Agreement contains restrictions that may limit our flexibility in operating our business.\" below.. Our restructuring activities may subject us to additional uncertainty in our operating results.. We have implemented, and plan to continue to implement, restructuring programs designed to facilitate key strategic initiatives and maintain long-term sustainable growth, such as the sale of our Fluid Handling business. As such, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur expense relating to restructuring activities. We may not achieve or sustain the anticipated benefits of these programs. Further, restructuring efforts are inherently risky, and we may not be able to predict the cost and timing of such actions accurately or properly estimate their impact. We also may not be able to realize the anticipated savings we expect from restructuring activities.. Available insurance coverage, the number of future asbestos-related claims and the average settlement value of current and future asbestos-related claims of certain subsidiaries could be different than we have estimated, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Certain subsidiaries are each one of many defendants in a large number of lawsuits that claim personal injury as a result of exposure to asbestos from products manufactured with components that are alleged to have contained asbestos. Such components were acquired from third-party suppliers and were not manufactured by any of our subsidiaries nor were the subsidiaries producers or direct suppliers of asbestos. Additionally, pursuant the purchase agreement related to the sale of our Fluid Handling business, we will retain the asbestos-related contingencies and insurance coverage related to the business, even though we will not retain an interest in the ongoing operations of the Fluid Handling business. For the purposes of our financial statements, we have estimated the future claims exposure and the amount of insurance available based upon certain assumptions with respect to future claims and liability costs. We estimate the liability costs to be incurred in resolving pending and forecasted claims for the next 15-year period.. Our decision to use a 15-year period is based on our belief that this is the extent of our ability to forecast liability costs. We also estimate the amount of insurance proceeds available for such claims based on the current financial strength of the various insurers, our estimate of the likelihood of payment and applicable current law. We reevaluate these estimates regularly. Although we believe our current estimates are reasonable, a change in the time period used for forecasting our liability costs, the actual number of future claims brought against us, the cost of resolving these claims, the likelihood of payment by, and the solvency of, insurers and the amount of remaining insurance available could be substantially different than our estimates, and future revaluation of our liabilities and insurance recoverables could result in material adjustments to these estimates, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we incur defense costs related to those claims, a portion of which has historically been reimbursed by our insurers. We also incur litigation costs in connection with actions against certain of the subsidiaries' insurers relating to insurance coverage. While these costs may be significant, we may not be able to predict the amount or duration of such costs. Additionally, we may experience delays in receiving reimbursement from insurers, during which time we may be required to pay cash for settlement or legal defense costs. Any increase in the actual number of future claims brought against us, the defense costs of resolving these claims, the cost of pursuing claims against our insurers,. 9. the likelihood and timing of payment by, and the solvency of, insurers and the amount of remaining insurance available, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A material disruption at any of our manufacturing facilities could adversely affect our ability to generate sales and meet customer demand.. If operations at any of our manufacturing facilities were to be disrupted as a result of a significant equipment failure, natural disaster, power outage, fire, explosion, terrorism, cyber-based attack, adverse weather conditions, labor disputes or other reason, our financial performance could be adversely affected as a result of our inability to meet customer demand for our products. Interruptions in production could increase our costs and reduce our sales. Any interruption in production capability could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to remedy the situation, which could negatively affect our profitability and financial condition. Any recovery under our property damage and business interruption insurance policies may not offset the lost sales or increased costs that may be experienced during the disruption of operations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act or other applicable anti-bribery laws could have an adverse effect on our business.. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Recent years have seen a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the Department of Justice and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, increased enforcement activity by non-U.S. regulators and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. Our policies mandate compliance with all anti-bribery laws. However, we operate in certain countries that are recognized as having governmental and commercial corruption. Our internal control policies and procedures may not always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or third-party intermediaries. Violations of these anti-bribery laws may result in criminal or civil sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Furthermore, in the event that we believe or have reason to believe that our employees or agents have or may have violated applicable laws, including anti-corruption laws, we may be required to investigate or have outside counsel investigate the relevant facts and circumstances, which can be expensive and require significant time and attention from senior management.. We have done and may continue to do business in countries subject to U.S. sanctions and embargoes, and we may have limited managerial oversight over those activities. Failure to comply with various sanction and embargo laws may result in enforcement or other regulatory actions.. Certain of our independent foreign subsidiaries have conducted and may continue to conduct business in countries subject to U.S. sanctions and embargoes or may engage in business dealings with parties whose property or property interests may be blocked under non-country-specific U.S. sanctions programs, and we have limited managerial oversight over those activities. Failure to comply properly with various sanction and embargo laws to which we and our operations may be subject may result in enforcement or other regulatory actions. Specifically, from time to time, certain of our independent foreign subsidiaries sell products to companies and entities located in, or controlled by the governments of, certain countries that are or have previously been subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government, United Nations or other countries where we maintain operations. With the exception of the U.S. sanctions against Cuba, and Iran to some extent, the applicable sanctions and embargoes generally do not prohibit our foreign subsidiaries from selling non-U.S.-origin products and services to countries that are or have previously been subject to sanctions and embargoes. However, our U.S. personnel, each of our domestic subsidiaries, as well as our employees of foreign subsidiaries who are U.S. citizens, are prohibited from participating in, approving or otherwise facilitating any aspect of the business activities in those countries or with persons prohibited under U.S. sanctions. These constraints impose compliance cost and risk on our operations and may negatively affect the financial or operating performance of such business activities.. Our efforts to comply with U.S. and other applicable sanction and embargo laws may not be effective, and as a consequence we may face enforcement or other actions if our compliance efforts are not or are perceived as not being wholly effective. Actual or alleged violations of these laws could lead to substantial fines or other sanctions which could result in substantial costs. In addition, Syria, Sudan and Iran and certain other sanctioned countries currently are identified by the U.S. State Department as state sponsors of terrorism, and have been subject to restrictive sanctions. Because certain of our independent foreign subsidiaries have contact with and transact limited business in certain U.S. sanctioned countries, including sales to enterprises controlled by agencies of the governments of such countries, our reputation may suffer due to our association with these countries, which may. 10. have a material adverse effect on the price of our shares and our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, certain U.S. states and municipalities have enacted legislation regarding investments by pension funds and other retirement systems in companies that have business activities or contacts with countries that have been identified as state sponsors of terrorism and similar legislation may be pending in other states. As a result, pension funds and other retirement systems may be subject to reporting requirements with respect to investments in companies such as Colfax or may be subject to limits or prohibitions with respect to those investments that may have a material adverse effect on the price of our shares and our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we fail to comply with export control regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or other sanctions.. Some of our products manufactured or assembled in the U.S. are subject to the U.S. Export Administration Regulations, administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security, which require that an export license is obtained before such products can be exported to certain countries. Additionally, some of our products are subject to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, which restrict the export of certain military or intelligence-related items, technologies and services to non-U.S. persons. Failure to comply with these laws could harm our business by subjecting us to sanctions by the U.S. government, including substantial monetary penalties, denial of export privileges and debarment from U.S. government contracts. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The majority of our sales are derived from international operations. We are subject to specific risks associated with international operations.. In the year ended December 31, 2017, we derived approximately 76% of our sales from operations outside of the U.S. and we have principal manufacturing facilities in 28 non-U.S. countries, and for 2018 we expect a majority of our sales to be from operations outside of the U.S. notwithstanding the sale of our Fluid Handling business. Sales from international operations, export sales and the use of manufacturing facilities outside of the U.S. by us are subject to risks inherent in doing business outside the U.S. These risks include:. • economic or political instability;. • partial or total expropriation of international assets;. • limitations on ownership or participation in local enterprises;. • trade protection measures by the U.S. or other nations, including tariffs or import-export restrictions, and other changes in trade relations;. • currency exchange rate fluctuations and restrictions on currency repatriation;. • labor and employment laws that may be more restrictive than in the U.S.;. • significant adverse changes in taxation policies or other laws or regulations;. • changes in laws and regulations or in how such provisions are interpreted or administered;. • difficulties in enforcing our rights outside the U.S.;. • difficulties in hiring and maintaining qualified staff and managing geographically diverse operations;. • the disruption of operations from natural disasters, labor or political disturbances, terrorist activities, insurrection or war; and. • uncertainties arising from local business practices and cultural considerations.. If any of these risks were to materialize, they may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If our associates represented by trade unions or works councils engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown or if the representation committees responsible for negotiating with such trade unions or works councils are unsuccessful in negotiating new and acceptable agreements when the existing agreements with associates covered by collective bargaining expire, we could experience business disruptions or increased costs.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 43% of our associates were represented by a number of different trade unions and works councils, and for 2018, as a result of the sale of our Fluid Handling business, we expect a similar percentage of associates to be represented by trade unions or work councils. Further, as of that date, we had approximately 14,300 associates, representing. 11. 83% of our worldwide associate base, in foreign locations. In Canada, Australia and various countries in Europe, Asia, and Central and South America, by law, certain of our associates are represented by a number of different trade unions and works councils, which subject us to employment arrangements very similar to collective bargaining agreements. Further, the laws of certain foreign countries may place restrictions on our ability to take certain employee-related actions or require that we conduct additional negotiations with trade unions, works councils or other governmental authorities before we can take such actions.. If our associates represented by trade unions or works councils were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown in the future, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations. Such disruption could interfere with our business operations and could lead to decreased productivity, increased labor costs and lost revenue. The representation committees that negotiate with the foreign trade unions or works councils on our behalf may not be successful in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements or other employment arrangements when the current ones expire. Furthermore, future labor negotiations could result in significant increases in our labor costs. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our manufacturing business is subject to the possibility of product liability lawsuits, which could harm our business.. As the manufacturer of equipment for use in industrial markets, we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims. Our products may not be free from defects. In addition, some of our products contain components manufactured by third parties, which may also have defects. Our product liability insurance policies have limits that may not be sufficient to cover claims made. In addition, this insurance may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost. With respect to components manufactured by third-party suppliers, the contractual indemnification that we seek from our third-party suppliers may be limited and thus insufficient to cover claims made against us. If insurance coverage or contractual indemnification is insufficient to satisfy product liability claims made against us, the claims could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Even claims without merit could harm our reputation, reduce demand for our products, cause us to incur substantial legal costs and distract the attention of our management. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As manufacturers, we are subject to a variety of environmental and health and safety laws for which compliance, or liabilities that arise as a result of noncompliance, could be costly.. Our businesses are subject to international, federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations, including laws and regulations governing emissions of: regulated air pollutants; discharges of wastewater and storm water; storage and handling of raw materials; generation, storage, transportation and disposal of regulated wastes; and laws and regulations governing worker safety. These requirements impose on our businesses certain responsibilities, including the obligation to obtain and maintain various environmental permits. If we were to fail to comply with these requirements or fail to obtain or maintain a required permit, we could be subject to penalties and be required to undertake corrective action measures to achieve compliance. In addition, if our noncompliance with such regulations were to result in a release of hazardous materials into the environment, such as soil or groundwater, we could be required to remediate such contamination, which could be costly. Moreover, noncompliance could subject us to private claims for property damage or personal injury based on exposure to hazardous materials or unsafe working conditions. In addition, changes in applicable requirements or stricter interpretation of existing requirements may result in costly compliance requirements or otherwise subject us to future liabilities. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As the present or former owner or operator of real property, or generator of waste, we could become subject to liability for environmental contamination, regardless of whether we caused such contamination.. Under various federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances, and, in some instances, international laws, relating to the protection of the environment, a current or former owner or operator of real property may be liable for the cost to remove or remediate contamination on, under, or released from such property and for any damage to natural resources resulting from such contamination. Similarly, a generator of waste can be held responsible for contamination resulting from the treatment or disposal of such waste at any off-site location (such as a landfill), regardless of whether the generator arranged for the treatment or disposal of the waste in compliance with applicable laws. Costs associated with liability for removal or remediation of contamination or damage to natural resources could be substantial and liability under these laws may attach without regard to whether the responsible party knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the contaminants. In addition, the liability may be joint and several. Moreover, the presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination at our properties, or properties for which we are deemed responsible, may expose us to liability for property damage or personal injury, or materially adversely affect our ability to sell our real property interests or to borrow using the real property as collateral. We could be subject to environmental liabilities in the. 12. future as a result of historic or current operations that have resulted or will result in contamination. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Failure to maintain and protect our intellectual property rights or challenges to these rights by third parties may affect our operations and financial performance.. The market for many of our products is, in part, dependent upon patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, agreements with employees, customers and other third parties to establish and maintain our intellectual property rights, and the Goodwill engendered by our trademarks and trade names. The protection and enforcement of these intellectual property rights is therefore material to a portion of our businesses. The failure to protect these rights may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Litigation may be required to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. It may be particularly difficult to enforce our intellectual property rights in countries where such rights are not highly developed or protected. Any action we take to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly and could absorb significant management time and attention. As a result of any such litigation, we could lose any proprietary rights we have.. In addition, third parties may claim that we or our customers are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. Claims of intellectual property infringement may subject us to costly and time-consuming defense actions and, should defenses not be successful, may result in the payment of damages, redesign of affected products, entry into settlement or license agreements, or a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from manufacturing, marketing or selling certain of our products. It is also possible that others will independently develop technology that will compete with our patented or unpatented technology. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The loss of key leadership could have a material adverse effect on our ability to run our business.. We may be adversely affected if we lose members of our senior leadership. We are highly dependent on our senior leadership team as a result of their expertise in our industry and our business. The loss of key leadership or the inability to attract, retain and motivate sufficient numbers of qualified management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our credit agreement contains restrictions that may limit our flexibility in operating our business.. The credit agreement entered into on June 5, 2015 by and among the Company, as the borrower, certain U.S. subsidiaries of the Company identified therein, as guarantors, each of the lenders party thereto and Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, as administrative agent, swing line lender and global coordinator (the \"DB Credit Agreement\"), contains various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our ability to, among other things:. • incur additional indebtedness;. • make certain investments;. • create liens on certain assets to secure debt; and. • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all our assets.. In addition, under the DB Credit Agreement, we are required to satisfy and maintain compliance with a total leverage ratio and an interest coverage ratio. Limitations imposed by the DB Credit Agreement's various covenants could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Any impairment in the value of our intangible assets, including Goodwill, would negatively affect our operating results and total capitalization.. Our Total assets reflect substantial intangible assets, primarily Goodwill. The Goodwill results from our acquisitions, representing the excess of cost over the fair value of the net assets we have acquired. We assess at least annually whether there has been impairment in the value of our indefinite-lived intangible assets. If future operating performance at one or more of our business units were to fall significantly below current levels, if competing or alternative technologies emerge, or if market conditions for an acquired business decline, we could incur, under current applicable accounting rules, a non-cash charge to operating earnings for Goodwill impairment. Any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of unamortized intangible assets would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and total capitalization, the effect of which could be material.. 13. Our defined benefit pension plans and post-retirement medical and death benefit plans are or may become subject to funding requirements or obligations that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We operate defined benefit pension plans and post-retirement medical and death benefit plans for our current and former employees worldwide. Each plan's funding position is affected by the investment performance of the plan's investments, changes in the fair value of the plan's assets, the type of investments, the life expectancy of the plan's members, changes in the actuarial assumptions used to value the plan's liabilities, changes in the rate of inflation and interest rates, our financial position, as well as other changes in economic conditions. Furthermore, since a significant proportion of the plans' assets are invested in publicly traded debt and equity securities, they are, and will be, affected by market risks. Any detrimental change in any of the above factors is likely to worsen the funding position of each of the relevant plans, and this would likely require the plans' sponsoring employers to increase the contributions currently made to the plans to satisfy our obligations. Any requirement to increase the level of contributions currently made could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Significant movements in foreign currency exchange rates may harm our financial results.. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. During the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 76% of our sales were derived from operations outside the U.S., and for 2018 we expect a majority of our sales to be outside of the U.S. notwithstanding the sale of our Fluid Handling business. A significant portion of our revenues and income are denominated in foreign currencies. Large fluctuations in the rate of exchange between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the currency exchange rates may impact the financial results positively or negatively in one period and not another, which may make it difficult to compare our operating results from different periods.. We also face exchange risk from transactions with customers in countries outside the U.S. and from intercompany transactions between affiliates. Although we use the U.S. dollar as our functional currency for reporting purposes, we have manufacturing sites throughout the world and a substantial portion of our costs are incurred and sales are generated in foreign currencies. Costs incurred and sales recorded by subsidiaries operating outside of the U.S. are translated into U.S. dollars using exchange rates effective during the respective period. As a result, we are exposed to movements in the exchange rates of various currencies against the U.S. dollar. Further, we may be subject to foreign currency translation losses depending upon whether foreign nations devalue their currencies.. We have generally accepted the exposure to exchange rate movements in translation without using derivative financial instruments to manage this risk. Both positive and negative movements in currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar will therefore continue to affect the reported amount of sales, profit, assets and liabilities in our Consolidated Financial Statements.. We are dependent on the availability of raw materials, as well as parts and components used in our products.. While we manufacture many of the parts and components used in our products, we purchase a substantial amount of raw materials, parts and components from suppliers. The availability and prices for raw materials, parts and components may be subject to curtailment or change due to, among other things, suppliers' allocations to other purchasers, interruptions in production by suppliers, changes in exchange rates and prevailing price levels. Any significant change in the supply of, or price for, these raw materials, parts or components could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, delays in delivery of raw materials, parts or components by suppliers could cause delays in our delivery of products to our customers.. We are currently working to streamline our supplier base. However, this could exacerbate certain of the risks described above. For example, as a result of maintaining relationships with fewer suppliers, we may become more dependent on such suppliers having adequate quantities of raw materials, parts or components that satisfy our requirements at prices that we consider appropriate, and on the timely delivery of such raw materials, parts or components to us.  In addition, as a result of maintaining relationships with fewer suppliers, it may be more difficult or impossible to obtain raw materials, parts or components from alternative sources when such components and raw materials are not available from our regular suppliers.. New or changing regulations, and customer focus on environmental, social and governance responsibility, may impose additional costs on us and expose us to new risks, including with respect to the sourcing of our products.. Regulators, stockholders and other interested constituencies have focused increasingly on the environmental, social and governance practices of companies, which has resulted in new regulations that may impose costs on us and expose us to new risks.. 14. We may be subject to additional regulations in the future arising from the increased focus on environmental, social and governance responsibility.  In addition, our customers may require us to implement environmental, social or governance responsibility procedures or standards before they will continue to do business with us. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on the price of our shares and our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition to the regulations noted above, our businesses are subject to extensive regulation by U.S. and non-U.S. governmental and self-regulatory entities at the supranational, federal, state, local and other jurisdictional levels. These regulations are continually changing, differ or conflict across jurisdictions, and have tended to become more stringent over time. We, our representatives and the industries in which we operate may at times be under review and/or investigation by regulatory authorities. Failure to comply (or any alleged or perceived failure to comply) with relevant regulations could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties, and any such failure or alleged failure (or becoming subject to a regulatory enforcement investigation) could also cause damage to our reputation, disrupt our business, limit our ability to manufacture, import, export and sell products and services, result in loss of customers and disbarment from selling to certain federal agencies and cause us to incur significant legal and investigatory fees. Compliance with these and other regulations may also affect our returns on investment, require us to incur significant expenses or modify our business model or impair our flexibility in modifying product, marketing, pricing or other strategies for growing our business.. Our information technology infrastructure could be subject to service interruptions, data corruption, cyber-based attacks or network security breaches, which could result in the disruption of operations or the loss of data confidentiality.. We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet and third party service providers, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities, including procurement, manufacturing, distribution, invoicing, collection, communication with our employees, customers, dealers and suppliers, business acquisitions and other corporate transactions, compliance with regulatory, legal and tax requirements, and research and development.  These information technology networks and systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components, power outages, hardware failures or computer viruses.  If these information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown and business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity could be materially adversely affected.. In addition, information technology security threats and sophisticated cyber-based attacks, including, but not limited to, denial-of-service attacks, hacking, \"phishing\" attacks, computer viruses, ransomware, malware employee or insider error, malfeasance, social engineering, or physical breaches, may cause deliberate or unintentional damage, destruction or misuse, manipulation, denial of access to or disclosure of confidential or important information by our employees, suppliers or third party service providers. Additionally, advanced persistent attempts to gain unauthorized access to our systems and those of third party service providers we rely on are increasing in sophistication and frequency. We have experienced, and expect to continue to confront attempts from hackers and other third parties to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems and networks. Although these attacks to date have not had a material impact on us, we could in the future experience attacks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. We can provide no assurance that our efforts to actively manage technology risks potentially affecting our systems and networks will be successful in eliminating or mitigating risks to our systems, networks and data or in effectively resolving such risks when they materialize. A failure of or breach in information technology security of our own systems, or those of our third-party vendors, could expose us and our employees, customers, dealers and suppliers to risks of misuse of information or systems, the compromise of confidential information, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes and operations disruptions. Any of these events in turn could adversely affect our reputation, competitive position, including loss of customers and revenue, business, results of operations and liquidity. In addition, such breaches in security could result in litigation, regulatory action and potential liability, as well as the costs and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures.. To conduct our operations, we regularly move data across national borders, and consequently we are subject to a variety of continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations in the United States and abroad regarding privacy, data protection and data security. The scope of the laws that may be applicable to us is often uncertain and may be conflicting, particularly with respect to foreign laws. For example, the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\"), which greatly increases the jurisdictional reach of European Union law and adds a broad array of requirements for handling personal data, including the public disclosure of significant data breaches, becomes effective in May 2018. Other countries have enacted or are enacting data localization laws that require data to stay within their borders. All of these evolving compliance and operational requirements impose significant costs that are likely to increase over time.. 15. We may be subject to risks arising from changes in technology.. The supply chains in which we operate are subject to technological changes and changes in customer requirements. We may not successfully develop or implement new or modified types of products or technologies that may be required by our customers in the future. Further, the development of new technologies by competitors that may compete with our technologies could reduce demand for our products and affect our financial performance. Should we not be able to maintain or enhance the competitive values of our products or develop and introduce new products or technologies successfully, or if new products or technologies fail to generate sufficient revenues to offset research and development costs, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected.. The markets we serve are highly competitive and some of our competitors may have superior resources. If we are unable to respond successfully to this competition, this could reduce our sales and operating margins.. We sell most of our products in highly fragmented and competitive markets. We believe that the principal elements of competition in our markets are:. • the ability to meet customer specifications;. • application expertise and design and engineering capabilities;. • product quality and brand name;. • timeliness of delivery;. • price; and. • quality of aftermarket sales and support.. In order to maintain and enhance our competitive position, we intend to continue investing in manufacturing quality, marketing, customer service and support, distribution networks, and research and development. We may not have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments and we may not be able to maintain our competitive position. Our competitors may develop products that are superior to our products, develop methods of more efficiently and effectively providing products and services, or adapt more quickly than us to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, marketing and research and development resources than we have. As a result, those competitors may be better able to withstand the effects of periodic economic downturns. In addition, pricing pressures could cause us to lower the prices of some of our products to stay competitive. We may not be able to compete successfully with our existing competitors or with new competitors. If we fail to compete successfully, the failure may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could adversely affect our financial results.. Our future effective income tax rates could be unfavorably affected by various factors including, among others, changes in the tax rates, rules and regulations in jurisdictions in which we generate income. For example, compliance with the 2017 U.S. Tax Cut and Jobs Act (\"Tax Act\") may require the collection of information not regularly produced within our Company, the use of provisional estimates in our financial statements, and the exercise of significant judgment in accounting for its provisions. Many aspects of the Tax Act are unclear and may not be clarified for some time. As regulations and guidance evolve with respect to the Tax Act, and as we gather more information and perform more analysis, our results may differ from previous estimates and may materially affect our financial position.. In addition, foreign countries may consider changes to existing tax laws, in response to the Tax Act or otherwise, including allowing existing provisions to expire, that could significantly impact the treatment of income earned outside the U.S. An increase in our effective tax rate could have a material adverse effect on our after-tax results of operations.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Act was signed into law making significant changes to the Internal Revenue Code which included how the U.S. imposes income tax on multinational corporations. Key changes in the Tax Act which are relevant to the Company and generally effective January 1, 2018 include a flat corporate income tax rate of 21 percent to replace the marginal rates that range from 15 percent to 35 percent, elimination of the corporate alternative minimum tax, the creation of a territorial tax system, a one-time tax on accumulated foreign subsidiary earnings (\"Transition Tax\") to transition to the territorial system,  a \"minimum tax\" on certain foreign earnings above an enumerated rate of return, a new base erosion anti-abuse tax that subjects. 16. certain payments made by a U.S. company to its foreign subsidiary to additional taxes, and an incentive for U.S. companies to sell, lease or license goods and services outside the U.S. by taxing the income at a reduced effective rate. The Tax Act also imposes limits on executive compensation and interest expense deductions, while permitting the immediate expensing for the cost of new investments in certain property acquired after September 27, 2017.. The financial accounting literature requires registrants to account for the Tax Act in the period of enactment. The SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (\"SAB 118\"), which allows registrants to include a provisional amount to account for the implications of the Tax Act. Accordingly, of significance, the Company included a provisional estimate of approximately $52 million for the Transition Tax, payable over 8 years. Generally, the foreign earnings subject to the Transition Tax can be distributed without additional U.S. tax; however, if distributed, the amount could be subject to foreign taxes and U.S. state and local taxes. The Company continues to evaluate the implications of the Tax Act including actions we may take to address our business objectives. Therefore, the Company continues to maintain its indefinite reinvestment of foreign earnings assertion.  The Company also included a provisional tax benefit estimate of approximately $55 million for the re-measurement of its U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities to 21 percent.. The Tax Act introduces significant complexity, notably in the computation of the Transition Tax including interpretation of law, and the information required to perform the computations is significant. As additional regulatory guidance is issued by the applicable taxing authorities, as accounting treatment is clarified, and as we perform additional analysis on the application of the law, we will adjust our provisional estimates in the period completed, which could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate.. In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by U.S. federal, state and local tax authorities and by non-U.S. tax authorities. If these audits result in assessments different from amounts recorded, our future financial results may include unfavorable tax adjustments.. Risks and Other Considerations Related to our Common Stock. The issuances of additional Common and Preferred stock or the resale of previously restricted Common stock may adversely affect the market price of Colfax Common stock.. Pursuant to certain registration rights agreements we have entered with Mitchell P. Rales, Steven M. Rales, BDT CF Acquisition Vehicle, LLC, and Markel Corporation (collectively, the \"Investors\"), the Investors and their permitted transferees have registration rights for the resale of certain shares of Colfax Common stock. These registration rights would facilitate the resale of such securities into the public market, and any such resale would increase the number of shares of Colfax Common stock available for public trading.  Sales by the Investors or their permitted transferees of a substantial number of shares of Colfax Common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of Colfax Common stock.. Additionally, under our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, there are additional authorized shares of Colfax Common stock.  Furthermore, we may issue a significant number of additional shares, in connection with acquisitions or otherwise. We also may issue a significant number of additional shares, either into the marketplace through an existing shelf registration statement or through other mechanisms. Additional shares issued would have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share.. Provisions in our governing documents and Delaware law, and the percentage of Common stock owned by our largest stockholders, may delay or prevent an acquisition of Colfax that may be beneficial to our stockholders.. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Amended and Restated Bylaws, and Delaware law contain provisions that may make it difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These include provisions prohibiting stockholders from taking action by written consent, prohibiting special meetings of stockholders called by stockholders, prohibiting stockholder nominations and approvals without complying with specific advance notice requirements, and mandating certain procedural steps for stockholders who wish to introduce business or nominate a director candidate. In addition, our Board of Directors has the right to issue Preferred stock without stockholder approval, which our Board of Directors could use to affect a rights plan or \"poison pill\" that could dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer and may have the effect of delaying, discouraging or preventing an acquisition of Colfax. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between Colfax and any holder of 15% or more of its outstanding voting stock.. 17. In addition, the percentage of Colfax Common stock owned Mitchell P. Rales, Steven M. Rales, and BDT Capital Partners, LLC and its affiliates could discourage a third party from proposing a change of control or other strategic transaction concerning Colfax."
