[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Columbus McKinnon is subject to a number of risk factors that could negatively affect our results from business operations or cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or indicated in any forward looking statement.  Such factors include, but are not limited to, the following:. Adverse changes in global economic conditions may negatively affect our industry, business, and results of operations.. Our industry is affected by changes in economic conditions outside our control, which can result in a general decrease in product demand from our customers. Such economic developments may affect our business in a number of ways. Reduced demand may drive us and our competitors to offer products at promotional prices, which would have a negative impact on our profitability. In addition, the tightening of credit in financial markets may adversely affect the ability of our customers and suppliers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations and could result in a decrease in, or cancellation of, orders for our products. If demand for our products slows down or decreases, we will not be able to maintain our revenue and we may run the risk of failing to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject under our existing indebtedness. Reduced revenue as a result of decreased demand may also reduce our planned growth and otherwise hinder our ability to improve our performance in connection with our long term strategy.. Our business is cyclical and is affected by industrial economic conditions.. Many of the end-users of our products are in highly cyclical industries, such as manufacturing, power generation and distribution, commercial construction, oil and gas exploration and refining, transportation, agriculture, logging, and mining that are sensitive to changes in general economic conditions. Their demand for our products, and thus our results of operations, is directly related to the level of production in their facilities, which changes as a result of changes in general economic conditions and other factors beyond our control. If there is deterioration in the general economy or in the industries we serve, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the cyclical nature of our business could at times also adversely affect our liquidity and ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility.. Our business is highly competitive and subject to consolidation of competitors. Increased competition could reduce our sales, earnings, and profitability.. The principal markets that we serve within the material handling industry are fragmented and highly competitive. Competition is based primarily on customer service and support as well as product availability, performance, functionality, brand reputation, reliability, and price. Our competition in the markets in which we participate comes from companies of various sizes, some of which have greater financial and other resources than we do. Increased competition could force us to lower our prices or to offer additional services at a higher cost to us, which could reduce our gross margins and net income.. The greater financial resources or the lower amount of debt of certain of our competitors may enable them to commit larger amounts of capital in response to changing market conditions. Certain competitors may also have the ability to develop product or service innovations that could put us at a disadvantage. In addition, through consolidation, some of our competitors have achieved substantially more market penetration in certain of the markets in which we operate. If we are unable to compete successfully against other manufacturers of material handling equipment, we could lose customers and our revenues may decline. There can also be no assurance that customers will continue to regard our products favorably, that we will be able to develop new products that appeal to customers, that we will be able to improve or maintain our profit margins on sales to our customers or that we will be able to continue to compete successfully in our core markets.. The acquisition of STAHL on January 31, 2017 resulted in a significant increase to the Company's long term borrowings.. The increased amount of long term borrowings could, among other things, require the Company to dedicate a large portion of its cash flow to the servicing and repayment of its outstanding indebtedness, thereby reducing funds available for other operating activities, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, and adversely affect our ability to pay dividends.. In connection with the acquisition of STAHL, we assumed an unfunded pension obligation which will further require cash flow to pay benefit obligations as they become due.. The STAHL pension obligation assumed in the acquisition is an unfunded pension plan valued at $85,851,000 at March 31, 2018. Therefore, the Company will be required to make current and future benefit payment obligations in addition to payments required to pay down other long term borrowings.. 11. Table of Contents. Our operations outside the U.S. pose certain risks that may adversely impact sales and earnings.. We have operations and assets located outside of the United States, primarily in China, Mexico, Germany, the United Kingdom, France, and Hungary. In addition, we import a portion of our hoist product line from Asia, and sell our products to distributors located in approximately 50 countries. In our fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, approximately 47% of our net sales were derived from non-U.S. markets. These non-U.S. operations are subject to a number of special risks, in addition to the risks of our U.S. business, differing protections of intellectual property, trade barriers, labor unrest, exchange controls, regional economic uncertainty, differing (and possibly more stringent) labor regulation, risk of governmental expropriation, U.S. and foreign customs and tariffs, current and changing regulatory environments, difficulty in obtaining distribution support, difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, differences in the availability, and terms of financing, political instability and risks of increases in taxes. Also, in some foreign jurisdictions we may be subject to laws limiting the right and ability of entities organized or operating therein to pay dividends or remit earnings to affiliated companies unless specified conditions are met. These factors may adversely affect our future profits.. Part of our strategy is to expand our worldwide market share and reduce costs by strengthening our international distribution capabilities and sourcing components in lower cost countries, in particular in China, Mexico, and Hungary. Implementation of this strategy may increase the impact of the risks described above, and we cannot assure you that such risks will not have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Our strategy depends on successful integration of acquisitions.. Acquisitions are a key part of our growth strategy. Our historical growth has depended, and our future growth is likely to depend on our ability to successfully implement our acquisition strategy, and the successful integration of acquired businesses into our existing business. We intend to continue to seek additional acquisition opportunities in accordance with our acquisition strategy, both to expand into new markets and to enhance our position in existing markets throughout the world. If we are unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses into our existing business or expand into new markets, our sales and earnings growth could be reduced.. Our products involve risks of personal injury and property damage, which exposes us to potential liability.. Our business exposes us to possible claims for personal injury or death and property damage resulting from the products that we sell. We maintain insurance through a combination of self-insurance retentions and excess insurance coverage. We monitor claims and potential claims of which we become aware and establish accrued liability reserves for the self-insurance amounts based on our liability estimates for such claims. We cannot give any assurance that existing or future claims will not exceed our estimates for self-insurance or the amount of our excess insurance coverage. In addition, we cannot give any assurance that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms or that our insurers would not require us to increase our self-insurance amounts. Claims brought against us that are not covered by insurance or that are in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our results, financial condition, or liquidity.. In addition, like many industrial manufacturers, we are also involved in asbestos-related litigation. In continually evaluating costs relating to our estimated asbestos-related liability, we review, among other things, the incidence of past and recent claims, the historical case dismissal rate, the mix of the claimed illnesses and occupations of the plaintiffs, our recent and historical resolution of the cases, the number of cases pending against us, the status and results of broad-based settlement discussions, and the number of years such activity might continue. Based on this review, we estimate our share of liability to defend and resolve probable asbestos related personal injury claims. This estimate is highly uncertain due to the limitations of the available data and the difficulty of forecasting with any certainty the numerous variables that can affect the range of the liability. We continue to study the variables in light of additional information in order to identify trends that may become evident and to assess their impact on the range of liability that is probable and estimable. We believe that the potential additional costs for claims will not have a material effect on the financial condition of the Company or its liquidity, although the effect of any future liabilities recorded could be material to earnings in a future period. See Note 15 to our March 31, 2018 consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this form 10K.. As indicated above, our self-insurance coverage is effected through our captive insurance subsidiary. The reserves of our captive insurance subsidiary are subject to periodic adjustments based upon actuarial evaluations, which adjustments impact our overall results of operations. These periodic adjustments can be favorable or unfavorable.. 12. Table of Contents. We are subject to currency fluctuations from our sales outside the U.S.. Our products are sold in many countries around the world. Thus, a portion of our revenues (approximately $395,986,000 in our fiscal year ended March 31, 2018) are generated in foreign currencies, including principally the Euro, the British Pound, the Canadian Dollar, the South African Rand, the Brazilian Real, the Mexican Peso, and the Chinese Yuan, and while much of the costs incurred to generate those revenues are incurred in the same currency, a portion is incurred in other currencies. Since our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies have had, and will continue to have, a currency translation impact on our earnings. Currency fluctuations may impact our financial performance in the future.. Our future operating results may be affected by fluctuations in steel or other material prices. We may not be able to pass on increases in raw material costs to our customers.. The principal raw material used in our chain, forging and crane building operations is steel. The steel industry as a whole is highly cyclical, and at times pricing and availability can be volatile due to a number of factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, labor costs, competition, import duties, tariffs, and currency exchange rates. This volatility can significantly affect our raw material costs. In an environment of increasing raw material prices, competitive conditions will determine how much of the steel price increases we can pass on to our customers. During historical rising cost periods, we were generally successful in adding and maintaining a surcharge to the prices of our high steel content products or incorporating them into price increases, with a goal of margin neutrality. In the future, to the extent we are unable to pass on any steel price increases to our customers, our profitability could be adversely affected.. We rely in large part on independent distributors for sales of our products.. For the most part, we depend on independent distributors to sell our products and provide service and aftermarket support to our end-user customers. Distributors play a significant role in determining which of our products are stocked at their locations, and hence are most readily accessible to aftermarket buyers, and the price at which these products are sold. Almost all of the distributors with whom we transact business offer competitive products and services to our end-user customers. For the most part, we do not have written agreements with our distributors. The loss of a substantial number of these distributors or an increase in the distributors' sales of our competitors' products to our ultimate customers could materially reduce our sales and profits.. We are subject to various environmental laws which may require us to expend significant capital and incur substantial cost.. Our operations and facilities are subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign requirements relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the discharges of pollutants in the air and water, the generation, management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, and the cleanup of contaminated sites. We have made, and will continue to make, expenditures to comply with such requirements. Violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws and regulations, or changes in such laws and regulations (such as the imposition of more stringent standards for discharges into the environment), could result in substantial costs to us, including operating costs and capital expenditures, fines and civil and criminal sanctions, third party claims for property damage or personal injury, clean-up costs, or costs relating to the temporary or permanent discontinuance of operations. Certain of our facilities have been in operation for many years, and we have remediated contamination at some of our facilities. Over time, we and other predecessor operators of such facilities have generated, used, handled, and disposed of hazardous and other regulated wastes. Additional environmental liabilities could exist, including clean-up obligations at these locations or other sites at which materials from our operations were disposed, which could result in substantial future expenditures that cannot be currently quantified and which could reduce our profits or have an adverse effect on our financial condition, operations, or liquidity.. We may face claims of infringement on the intellectual property of others, or others may infringe upon our intellectual property.. Our future success depends in part on our ability to prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights, as well as our ability to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. We may be required at times to take legal action to protect our proprietary rights and, despite our best efforts, we may be sued for infringing on the patent rights of others. Patent litigation is costly and, even if we prevail, the cost of such litigation could adversely affect our financial condition. In addition, we could be adversely affected financially should we be judged to have infringed upon the intellectual property of others.. We rely on subcontractors or suppliers to perform their contractual obligations.. Some of our contracts involve subcontracts with other companies upon which we rely to perform a portion of the services we must provide to our customers. There is a risk that we may have disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by our subcontractor or customer concerns about the subcontractor. Failure by our. 13. Table of Contents. subcontractors to satisfactorily provide on a timely basis the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed upon services may materially and adversely impact our ability to perform our obligations as the prime contractor. A delay in our ability to obtain components and equipment parts from our suppliers may affect our ability to meet our customers' needs and may have an adverse effect upon our profitability.. We are subject to debt covenant restrictions.. Our revolving credit facility and Term Loan contain a financial leverage covenant and other restrictive covenants. A significant decline in our operating income or cash generating ability could cause us to violate our leverage ratio in our bank credit facility. Other material adverse changes in our business could cause us to be in default of our debt covenants.  This could result in our being unable to borrow under our bank credit facility or being obliged to refinance and renegotiate the terms of our indebtedness.. Our business operations may be adversely affected by information systems interruptions or intrusion.. We depend on various information technologies throughout our company to administer, store, and support multiple business activities. If these systems are damaged, cease to function properly, or are subject to cyber-security attacks, such as those involving unauthorized access, malicious software and/or other intrusions, we could experience production downtimes, operational delays, other detrimental impacts on our operations or ability to provide products and services to our customers, the compromising of confidential or otherwise protected information, destruction or corruption of data, security breaches, other manipulation or improper use of our systems or networks, financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability, and/or damage to our reputation. While we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including employee training, technical security controls, and maintenance of backup and protective systems, our systems, networks, products, and services remain potentially vulnerable to known or unknown threats, any of which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We depend on our senior management team and the loss of any member could adversely affect our operations.. Our success is dependent on the management and leadership skills of our senior management team. The loss of any of these individuals or an inability to attract, retain, and maintain additional personnel could prevent us from implementing our business strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing senior management personnel or to attract additional qualified personnel when needed.. We continually evaluate and assess our personnel and may make additional changes to the members or assignments of our senior management team in the future.. We have entered into employment agreements with the following senior management personnel: Werner Wagner (our STAHL Managing Director) and Mark D. Morelli (our President and CEO)."
