[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business faces a variety of risks. If any of the events or circumstances described in any of the following risk factors occurs, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected, and our actual results may differ materially from those predicted in any forward-looking statements we make in any public disclosures. Additional factors that could affect our business, results of operations and financial condition are discussed elsewhere in this Report (including in \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K). Additional risks or uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to refinance existing indebtedness or raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from meeting our obligations under the agreements related to our indebtedness.. We have a significant amount of indebtedness, which is more fully described in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K and Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $7.5 billion aggregate principal amount of senior secured indebtedness outstanding, and approximately $6.4 billion of senior unsecured indebtedness outstanding.. Our substantial leverage could have important consequences, including the following:. <U+0095>   it may limit our ability to refinance existing indebtedness or obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes;. <U+0095>   a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations will be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, including to fund our operations, capital expenditures, financial obligations and future business opportunities;. <U+0095>   some of our borrowings, including borrowings under our credit facility, accrue interest at variable rates, exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates;. <U+0095>   it may limit our ability to make strategic acquisitions or cause us to make nonstrategic divestitures;. 27. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   it may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less highly leveraged; and. <U+0095>   it may increase our vulnerability in connection with adverse changes in general economic, industry or competitive conditions or government regulations or other adverse developments.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our indebtedness depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness.. In addition, we are a holding company with no direct operations. Our principal assets are the equity interests we hold in our operating subsidiaries. As a result, we are dependent upon dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our outstanding debt service and other obligations. Our subsidiaries may not generate sufficient cash from operations to enable us to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. In addition, any payments of dividends, distributions, loans or advances to us by our subsidiaries are subject to certain legal and contractual restrictions, including under our credit facility and indentures.. We may find it necessary or prudent to refinance certain of our outstanding indebtedness, the terms of which may not be favorable to us. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all, is directly affected by the then current general economic and financial conditions. In addition, our ability to incur secured indebtedness (which would generally enable us to achieve better pricing than the incurrence of unsecured indebtedness) depends in part on the value of our assets, which depends, in turn, on the strength of our cash flows and results of operations, and on economic and market conditions and other factors.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we would be able to take any of these actions, that these actions would be successful and permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our existing or future debt agreements, including our credit facility and the indentures governing our outstanding notes. For example, our credit facility and the indentures governing our outstanding notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from any dispositions. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions and any proceeds we receive may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due.. Restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness may adversely affect us.. Our credit facility and the indentures governing our outstanding notes contain various covenants that limit our ability to take certain actions, including our ability to:. <U+0095>   incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness;. <U+0095>   issue redeemable stock and preferred stock;. <U+0095>   repurchase capital stock;. <U+0095>   make restricted payments, including paying dividends and making certain loans, acquisitions and investments;. 28. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   redeem debt that is subordinated in right of payment to our outstanding notes;. <U+0095>   create liens;. <U+0095>   sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries;. <U+0095>   impair the security interests;. <U+0095>   enter into agreements that restrict dividends and certain other payments from subsidiaries;. <U+0095>   merge, consolidate, sell or otherwise dispose of substantially all our assets;. <U+0095>   enter into transactions with affiliates; and. <U+0095>   guarantee certain obligations.. In addition, our credit facility contains restrictive covenants and requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet these restrictive covenants and financial ratios and tests may be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet those tests.. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit facility and the indentures governing our outstanding notes. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our credit facility or any of the indentures governing our outstanding notes, all amounts outstanding under our credit facility or the applicable indenture may become immediately due and payable and all commitments under the credit facility to extend further credit may be terminated.. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly.. Our borrowings under our credit facility are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income would decrease. Our interest expense, net, for the year ended December 31, 2017 was $931 million. For the year ended December 31, 2017, a fluctuation in interest rates of 1% on our variable rate debt that is not hedged by interest rate swaps would have resulted in a fluctuation in our interest expense of approximately $27 million.. If we are unable to make payments on our indebtedness, we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness.. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow and are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants, including financial and operating covenants, in the instruments governing our indebtedness, including covenants in the indentures governing our outstanding notes and our credit facility, we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness, including our credit facility and the indentures governing our outstanding notes. In the event of any default, the holders of this indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed to be immediately due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest; the lenders under our credit facility could elect to terminate their commitments under the credit facility, cease making further loans and direct the collateral agent to institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets; and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If our operating performance declines, we may in the future need to obtain waivers from the required lenders under our credit facility to avoid being in default. If we breach our covenants under our credit facility and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required lenders. If this occurs, we would be in default under our credit facility, the lenders could exercise their rights, as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.. 29. Table of Contents. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness that will mature and become due in the near future.. As further described in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K and Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K, we have a substantial amount of indebtedness scheduled to mature in the near future. As a result, we may not have sufficient cash to repay all amounts owing on our outstanding notes, our credit facility (or any of the various term and revolving loans outstanding thereunder) and our receivables facility at the applicable maturity date. Given that each series of outstanding notes, our credit facility and our receivables facility will mature in close proximity to each other, there can be no assurance that we will have the ability to borrow or otherwise raise the amounts necessary to repay all such amounts. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all, is dependent on (among other things) conditions in the credit and capital markets which are beyond our control.. Despite current indebtedness levels, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks described above.. We and our subsidiaries have the ability to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, subject to restrictions contained in our credit facility and the indentures governing our outstanding notes. Our credit facility as well as a separate receivables facility provide for commitments and borrowings of up to approximately $4.4 billion in the aggregate, of which approximately $3.5 billion was outstanding as of December 31, 2017. Our credit facility also gives us the ability to provide for one or more additional tranches of term loans and increases in our revolving credit facility in the aggregate principal amount of up to the greater of (x) $1.5 billion (only $1.0 billion of which is effectively available) and (y) an amount such that our senior secured net leverage ratio would not exceed 4.0:1.0 without the consent of the existing lenders if specified criteria are satisfied. If additional indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we currently face related to indebtedness as noted above could increase.. If we are unable to continue to complete divestitures as previously disclosed, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. We have been implementing a portfolio rationalization and deleveraging strategy by divesting hospitals and non-hospital businesses that are attractive to strategic and other buyers. Generally, these businesses are not in one of our strategically beneficial service areas, are less complementary to our business strategy and/or have lower operating margins. In addition, in connection with our announced divestiture initiative, strategic and other buyers have made offers to buy certain of our assets. Through consideration of these offers we have divested or may divest hospitals and non-hospital businesses when we find such offers to be attractive and in line with our operating strategy. However, there is no assurance that these contemplated divestitures will be completed, will be completed within our contemplated timeframe, or will be completed on terms favorable to us or on terms sufficient to allow us to achieve our deleveraging strategy. Additionally, the results of operations for these hospitals we plan to divest and the potential gains or losses on the sales of those businesses may adversely affect our profitability. Moreover, we may incur asset impairment charges related to divestitures that reduce our profitability.. In addition, after entering into a definitive agreement, we may be subject to the satisfaction of pre-closing conditions as well as necessary regulatory and governmental approvals, which, if not satisfied or obtained, may prevent us from completing the sale. Divestitures may also involve continued financial exposure related to the divested business, such as through indemnities or retained obligations, that present risk to us.. 30. Table of Contents. Our planned divestiture activities may present financial, managerial, and operational risks. Those risks include diversion of management attention from improving existing operations; additional restructuring charges and the related impact from separating personnel, renegotiating contracts, and restructuring financial and other systems; adverse effects on existing business relationships with patients and third-party payors; and the potential that the collectability of any patient accounts receivable retained from any divested hospital may be adversely impacted. Any of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We are the subject of various legal, regulatory and governmental proceedings that, if resolved unfavorably, could have an adverse effect on us, and we may be subject to other loss contingencies, both known and unknown.. We are a party to various legal, regulatory and governmental proceedings and other related matters. Those proceedings include, among other things, government investigations. In addition, we are and may become subject to other loss contingencies, both known and unknown, which may relate to past, present and future facts, events, circumstances and occurrences. Should an unfavorable outcome occur in connection with our legal, regulatory or governmental proceedings or other loss contingencies, or if we become subject to any such loss contingencies in the future, there could be an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Moreover, costs associated with HMA's legal proceedings and other loss contingencies may be greater than expected, and could exceed the amount of any reduction in payment under the contingent value rights, or CVRs, issued in the HMA merger to HMA stockholders.. In particular, government investigations, as well as qui tam lawsuits, may lead to significant fines, penalties, damages payments or other sanctions, including exclusion from government healthcare programs. Settlements of lawsuits involving Medicare and Medicaid issues routinely require both monetary payments and corporate integrity agreements, each of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows.. The impact of past acquisitions, as well as potential future acquisitions, could have a negative effect on our operations.. Our business strategy has historically included growth by acquisitions. However, not-for-profit hospital systems and other for-profit hospital companies generally attempt to acquire the same type of hospitals as we do. LifePoint Health, Inc. is a principal competitor for acquisitions. Other competitors include HCA Holdings, Inc., or HCA, UHS, other non-public, for profit hospitals and local market hospitals. Some of the competitors for our acquisitions have greater financial resources than we have. Furthermore, some hospitals are sold through an auction process, which may result in higher purchase prices than we believe are reasonable. Therefore, we may not be able to acquire additional hospitals on terms favorable to us.. In addition, many of the hospitals we have acquired have had lower operating margins than we do and operating losses incurred prior to the time we acquired them. Hospitals acquired in the future may have similar financial performance issues. In the past, we have experienced delays in improving the operating margins or effectively integrating the operations of certain acquired hospitals, including some hospitals acquired in connection with the HMA merger. In the future, if we are unable to improve the operating margins of acquired hospitals, operate them profitably, or effectively integrate their operations, our results of operations and business may be adversely affected.. Moreover, hospitals that we have acquired, or in the future could acquire, may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including liabilities associated with ongoing legal proceedings or for failure to comply with healthcare laws and regulations. Although we generally seek indemnification from sellers covering these matters, we may nevertheless have material liabilities for past activities of acquired hospitals.. 31. Table of Contents. State efforts to regulate the construction, acquisition or expansion of healthcare facilities could limit our ability to build or acquire additional healthcare facilities, renovate our facilities or expand the breadth of services we offer.. Some states in which we operate require a CON or other prior approval for the construction or acquisition of healthcare facilities, capital expenditures exceeding a prescribed amount, changes in bed capacity or services and some other matters. In evaluating a proposal, these states consider the need for additional or expanded healthcare facilities or services. If we are not able to obtain required CONs or other prior approvals, we will not be able to acquire, operate, replace or expand our facilities or expand the breadth of services we offer. Furthermore, if a CON or other prior approval upon which we relied to invest in construction of a replacement or expanded facility were to be revoked or lost through an appeal process, we may not be able to recover the value of our investment.. State efforts to regulate the sale of hospitals operated by municipal or not-for-profit entities could prevent us from acquiring these types of hospitals.. Many states have adopted legislation regarding the sale or other disposition of hospitals operated by municipal or not-for-profit entities. In some states that do not have specific legislation, the attorneys general have demonstrated an interest in these transactions under their general obligation to protect the use of charitable assets. These legislative and administrative efforts focus primarily on the appropriate valuation of the assets divested and the use of the proceeds of the sale by the non-profit seller. While these review and, in some instances, approval processes can add additional time to the closing of a hospital acquisition, we have not had any significant difficulties or delays in completing acquisitions. However, future state actions could delay or even prevent our ability to acquire hospitals once we return to our acquisition strategy.. If we are unable to effectively compete for patients, local residents could use other hospitals and healthcare providers.. The healthcare industry is highly competitive among hospitals and other healthcare providers for patients, affiliations with physicians and acquisitions. However, the majority of our hospitals are located in non-urban service areas where we believe we are the sole provider of general acute care health services. As a result, the most significant competition our hospitals face comes from hospitals outside of our primary service areas, typically hospitals in urban areas that provide more complex services. Patients in our primary service areas may travel to other hospitals because of physician referrals or their need for services we do not offer, among other reasons. Patients who receive services from these other hospitals may subsequently shift their preferences to those hospitals for the services we provide. Other healthcare providers, including outpatient surgery, orthopedic, oncology and diagnostic centers, also compete for patients. Our hospitals, our competitors, and other healthcare industry participants are increasingly implementing physician alignment strategies, such as acquiring physician practice groups, employing physicians and participating in ACOs or other clinical integration models, which may impact our competitive position. In addition, increasing consolidation within the payor industry, vertical integration efforts involving payors and healthcare providers, and cost-reduction strategies by large employer groups and their affiliates may impact our ability to contract with payors on favorable terms and otherwise affect our competitive position.. At December 31, 2017, 56 of our hospitals competed with more than one other hospital in their respective primary service areas. In most markets in which we are not the sole provider of general acute care health services, our primary competitor is a municipal or not-for-profit hospital. These hospitals are owned by tax-supported governmental agencies or not-for-profit entities supported by endowments and charitable contributions. They do not pay income or property taxes, and can make capital expenditures without paying sales tax. These financial advantages may better position these hospitals to maintain more modern and technologically upgraded facilities and equipment and offer services more specialized than those available at our hospitals. If our competitors are better able to attract patients with these offerings, we may experience an overall decline in patient volume.. 32. Table of Contents. Trends toward clinical transparency and value-based purchasing may have an unanticipated impact on our competitive position and patient volumes. The CMS Hospital Compare website makes available to the public certain data that hospitals submit in connection with Medicare reimbursement claims, including performance data related to quality measures and patient satisfaction surveys. Further, every hospital must establish and update annually a public listing of the hospital's standard charges for items and services or publish its policies for allowing the public to view a list of these charges in response to an inquiry. If any of our hospitals achieve poor results (or results that are lower than our competitors) on these quality measures or on patient satisfaction surveys, or if our standard charges are higher than our competitors, we may attract fewer patients.. We expect these competitive trends to continue. If we are unable to compete effectively with other hospitals and other healthcare providers, local residents may seek healthcare services at providers other than our hospitals and affiliated businesses.. The failure to obtain our medical supplies at favorable prices could cause our operating results to decline.. We have a participation agreement with HealthTrust, a GPO. The current term of this agreement expires in January 2019, with automatic renewal terms of one year unless either party terminates by giving notice of non-renewal. GPOs attempt to obtain favorable pricing on medical supplies with manufacturers and vendors, sometimes by negotiating exclusive supply arrangements in exchange for discounts. To the extent these exclusive supply arrangements are challenged or deemed unenforceable, we could incur higher costs for our medical supplies obtained through HealthTrust. Further, costs of supplies and drugs may continue to increase due to market pressure from pharmaceutical companies and new product releases. Higher costs could continue to adversely impact our operating results. Also, there can be no assurance that our arrangement with HealthTrust will provide the discounts we expect to achieve.. If the fair value of our reporting units declines, a material non-cash charge to earnings from impairment of our goodwill could result.. At December 31, 2017, we had approximately $4.7 billion of goodwill. We expect to recover the carrying value of this goodwill through our future cash flows. On an ongoing basis, under U.S. GAAP, we evaluate, based on the fair value of our reporting units, whether the carrying value of our goodwill is impaired when events or changes in circumstances indicate that such carrying value may not be recoverable. U.S. GAAP requires us to test goodwill for impairment at least annually.. During the three months ended December 31, 2017, in connection with the preparation of the financial statements included in this Form 10-K, we identified certain indicators of impairment and performed an interim goodwill impairment evaluation as of November 30, 2017. Those indicators were primarily a further decline in our market capitalization and fair value of our long-term debt during November 2017. We performed an estimated calculation of fair value in step one of the impairment test, which indicated that the carrying value of our hospital operations reporting unit exceeded its fair value. As further discussed in the footnotes to the consolidated financial statements, during the three months ended December 31, 2017 we early adopted the accounting guidance in ASU 2017-04, which eliminates the step two calculation to determine the implied value of goodwill, and instead requires an impairment of goodwill equal to the difference between the carrying value and estimated fair value of the reporting unit determined in step one. As a result of this evaluation and the early adoption of ASU 2017-04, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $1.419 billion to goodwill during the three months ended December 31, 2017.. In addition, during the three months ended June 30, 2016, we identified certain indicators of impairment requiring an interim goodwill impairment evaluation. Those indicators were primarily the decline in our market capitalization and fair value of long-term debt during the three months ended June 30, 2016, and a decline in our projected future earnings. We performed an estimated calculation of fair value in step one of the impairment test at June 30, 2016, which indicated that the carrying value of our hospital operations reporting unit exceeded its fair value, which calculation was updated during the three months ended September 30, 2016. In addition, a step. 33. Table of Contents. two calculation was performed to determine the implied value of goodwill in a hypothetical purchase price allocation. Based on these analyses, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $1.395 billion to goodwill during the year ended December 31, 2016 based on the fair value and resulting implied goodwill at that time.. The testing of goodwill for impairment requires us to make significant estimates about our future performance and cash flows, as well as other assumptions related to our cost of capital and other factors impacting our fair value models. These estimates can be affected by various factors, including changes in economic, industry or other market assumptions, changes in our business operations, estimates of future revenue and expenses, estimated marked multiples, expected capital expenditures, potential changes in our stock price and market capitalization, and the fair value of our long-term debt. Changes in these factors, or changes in our actual performance compared with our estimates of future projections, could affect our calculation of the fair value of our reporting units, which could result in a material impairment charge to goodwill and a material non-cash charge to earnings during the period in which the impairment is determined.. A significant decline in operating results or other indicators of impairment at one or more of our facilities could result in a material, non-cash charge to earnings to impair the value of long-lived assets.. Our operations are capital intensive and require significant investment in long-lived assets, such as property, equipment and other long-lived intangible assets, including capitalized internal-use software. If one of our facilities experiences declining operating results or is adversely impacted by one or more of these risk factors, we may not be able to recover the carrying value of those assets through our future operating cash flows. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate whether changes in future undiscounted cash flows reflect an impairment in the fair value of our long-lived assets. Additionally, as we continue to rationalize our portfolio of hospitals, we evaluate whether a hospital or a group of hospitals is impaired based on an analysis of the selling price from a definitive agreement compared to the carrying value of the net assets being sold. If the carrying value of our long-lived assets is impaired, we may incur a material non-cash charge to earnings.. We are unable to predict the ultimate impact of health reform initiatives, including the Affordable Care Act, and our business may be adversely affected if the Affordable Care Act is repealed entirely or if provisions benefitting our operations are significantly modified.. In recent years, the U.S. Congress and certain state legislatures have introduced and passed a large number of proposals and legislation designed to make major changes in the healthcare system, including changes intended to increase access to health insurance. The most prominent of these efforts, the Affordable Care Act, affects how healthcare services are covered, delivered, and reimbursed. The Affordable Care Act mandates that substantially all U.S. citizens maintain health insurance coverage, expands health insurance coverage through a combination of public program expansion and private sector health insurance reforms, reduces Medicare reimbursement to hospitals, and promotes value-based purchasing. However, in December 2017, tax reform legislation was enacted that eliminates the financial penalty for individuals that fail to maintain insurance coverage associated with the individual mandate, effective January 2019. We are unable to determine the impact of this change, but it could have an adverse effect on us.. Further, efforts by the presidential administration and certain members of Congress to repeal or make significant changes to the Affordable Care Act, its implementation and/or its interpretation have cast considerable uncertainty on the future of the law. For example, a presidential executive order has been signed that directs agencies to minimize \"economic and regulatory burdens\" of the Affordable Care Act. In addition, CMS administrators have indicated that they intend to grant states additional flexibility in the administration of state Medicaid programs, including by expanding the scope of waivers under which states may impose different eligibility or enrollment restrictions or otherwise implement programs that vary from federal standards. There is uncertainty regarding whether, when, and how the Affordable Care Act will be further changed, what alternative provisions, if any, will be enacted, the timing of enactment and implementation of alternative provisions, the impact of alternative provisions on providers as well as other healthcare industry participants, and how the law will be interpreted and implemented. Changes by Congress or government agencies could eliminate or alter. 34. Table of Contents. provisions beneficial to us while leaving in place provisions reducing our reimbursement. Government efforts to repeal or change the Affordable Care Act or implement other reform initiatives may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow, capital resources and liquidity. Other industry participants, such as private payors and large employer groups and their affiliates, may also introduce financial or delivery system reforms. We are unable to predict the nature and success of such initiatives.. If reimbursement rates paid by federal or state healthcare programs or commercial payors are reduced, if we are unable to maintain favorable contract terms with payors or comply with our payor contract obligations, if insured individuals move to insurance plans with greater coverage exclusions or narrower networks, or if insurance coverage is otherwise restricted or reduced, our net operating revenues may decline.. In 2017, 33.1% of our operating revenues, net of contractual allowances and discounts (but before the provision for bad debts), came from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. However, as federal healthcare expenditures continue to increase and state governments continue to face budgetary shortfalls, federal and state governments have made, and continue to make, significant changes in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. These changes include reductions in reimbursement levels and to supplemental payment programs, like disproportionate share hospital programs, as well as new or modified demonstration projects authorized pursuant to Medicaid waivers. Some of these changes have decreased, or could decrease, the amount of money we receive for our services relating to these programs.. In addition, government and commercial payors as well as other third parties from whom we receive payment for our services attempt to control healthcare costs by, for example, requiring hospitals to discount payments for their services in exchange for exclusive or preferred participation in their benefit plans, restricting coverage through utilization review, reducing coverage of inpatient services and shifting care to outpatient settings, requiring prior authorizations, and implementing alternative payment models. The ability of commercial payors to control healthcare costs using these measures may be enhanced by the increasing consolidation of insurance and managed care companies and vertical integration of health insurers with healthcare providers.. In 2017, 54.3% of our operating revenues, net of contractual allowances and discounts (but before the provision for bad debts), came from commercial payors. Our contracts with payors require us to comply with a number of terms related to the provision of services and billing for services. If we are unable to negotiate increased reimbursement rates, maintain existing rates or other favorable contract terms, effectively respond to payor cost controls or comply with the terms of our payor contracts, the payments we receive for our services may be reduced or we may be involved in disputes with payors and experience payment denials, both prospectively and retroactively. In addition, individuals have been increasingly enrolling in high-deductible health plans, which tend to have lower reimbursement rates for providers along with higher co-pays and deductibles due from the patient in comparison to traditional health plans. These plans, sometimes referred to as consumer-directed plans, may even exclude our hospitals and employed physicians from coverage.. The demand for services provided by our hospitals can be impacted by factors beyond our control.. Our admissions and adjusted admissions as well as acuity trends may be impacted by factors beyond our control. For example, seasonal fluctuations in the severity of influenza and other critical illnesses, unplanned shutdowns or unavailability of our facilities due to weather or other unforeseen events, decreases in trends in high acuity service offerings, changes in competition from outside service providers, turnover in physicians affiliated with our hospitals, or changes in medical technology can have an impact on the demand for services at our hospitals. The impact of these or other factors beyond our control could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. We may be adversely affected by consolidation among health insurers and other industry participants.. In recent years, a number of health insurers have merged or increased efforts to consolidate with other non-governmental payors. Insurers are also increasingly pursuing alignment initiatives with healthcare providers.. 35. Table of Contents. Consolidation within the health insurance industry may result in insurers having increased negotiating leverage and competitive advantages, such as greater access to performance and pricing data. Our ability to negotiate prices and favorable terms with health insurers in certain markets could be affected negatively as a result of this consolidation. Also, the shift toward value-based payment models could be accelerated if larger insurers, including those engaging in consolidation activities, find these models to be financially beneficial. We cannot predict whether we will be able to negotiate favorable terms with payors and otherwise respond effectively to the impact of increased consolidation in the payor industry or vertical integration efforts.. If we fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations, including fraud and abuse laws, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations.. The healthcare industry is governed by laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels. These laws and regulations include standards addressing, among other issues, the adequacy of medical care, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures; billing and coding for services; properly handling overpayments; classification of levels of care provided; preparing and filing of cost reports; relationships with referral sources and referral recipients; maintenance of adequate records; compliance with building codes; environmental protection; privacy and security; debt collection; and communications with patients and consumers. Examples of these laws include, but are not limited to, HIPAA, the Stark Law, the federal anti-kickback statute, the FCA, the Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act and similar state laws. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations we could suffer civil sanctions and criminal penalties, including the loss of our operating licenses and our ability to participate in the Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs.. In addition, there are heightened coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts by both federal and state government agencies relating to the healthcare industry, including the hospital segment. Recent enforcement actions have focused on financial arrangements between hospitals and physicians, billing for services without adequately documenting medical necessity and billing for services outside the coverage guidelines for such services. Specific to our hospitals, we have received inquiries and subpoenas from various governmental agencies regarding these and other matters, and we are also subject to various claims and lawsuits relating to such matters. For a further discussion of these matters, see \"Legal Proceedings\" in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K.. In the future, evolving interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses.. Certain changes in federal tax laws could have an adverse effect on our business, cash flow, results of operations and financial position.. On December 22, 2017, the federal government passed comprehensive Federal tax reform through the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, or the Tax Act. The Tax Act makes changes to the corporate tax rate and business-related deductions, among others, that will generally be effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017. These changes could have an adverse impact on the value of our deferred tax assets, which would result in significant charges in the current or future taxable years and increase our future tax expense. We are continuing to evaluate the Tax Act and its requirements, as well as its application to our business and its impact on our effective tax rate. At this stage, it is unclear how many states will incorporate these federal law changes, or portions thereof, into their tax codes. Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the Tax Act, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, which provides registrants a measurement period to report the impact of the Tax Act. To the extent we were able to determine a reasonable estimate of the effects of the Tax Act, we recorded provisional amounts in our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017. As we complete our analysis of the Tax Act, collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret any additional guidance from standard-setting bodies, we may make adjustments to provisional amounts that we have recorded that may materially impact our provision for income taxes in the period in which the adjustments are made.. 36. Table of Contents. We could be subject to substantial uninsured liabilities or increased insurance costs as a result of significant legal actions.. Physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers have become subject to an increasing number of legal actions alleging malpractice, product liability, or related legal theories. Even in states that have imposed caps on damages, litigants are seeking recoveries under new theories of liability that might not be subject to the caps on damages. Many of these actions involve large claims and significant defense costs. To protect us from the cost of these claims, we maintain claims made professional malpractice liability insurance and general liability insurance coverage in excess of those amounts for which we are self-insured. This insurance coverage is in amounts that we believe to be sufficient for our operations; however, our insurance coverage may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost for us to maintain adequate levels of insurance. Additionally, our insurance coverage does not cover all claims against us, such as fines, penalties, or other damage and legal expense payments resulting from qui tam lawsuits. We cannot predict the outcome of current or future legal actions against us or the effect that judgments or settlements in such matters may have on us or on our insurance costs. Additionally, all professional and general liability insurance we purchase is subject to policy limitations. If the aggregate limit of any of our professional and general liability policies is exhausted, in whole or in part, it could deplete or reduce the limits available to pay any other material claims applicable to that policy period. Furthermore, one or more of our insurance carriers could become insolvent and unable to fulfill its or their obligations to defend, pay or reimburse us when those obligations become due. In that case, or if payments of claims exceed our estimates or are not covered by our insurance, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We could be subject to increased monetary penalties and/or other sanctions, including exclusion from federal healthcare programs, if we fail to comply with the terms of the Corporate Integrity Agreement.. On August 4, 2014, we announced that we had entered into a civil settlement with the U.S. Department of Justice, other federal agencies and identified relators that concluded previously announced investigations and litigation related to short stay admissions through emergency departments at certain of our affiliated hospitals. See our discussion of this matter under the section \"Business of Community Health Systems, Inc.\" in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K and \"Legal Proceedings\" in Part II, Item 1 of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2014 for further discussion of the background of this matter and details of the settlement. In addition to the amounts paid in the settlement, we executed the CIA with the OIG that has been incorporated into our existing and comprehensive compliance program.. Material, uncorrected violations of the CIA could lead to our suspension or disbarment from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs and repayment obligations. In addition, we are subject to possible civil penalties for failure to substantially comply with the terms of the CIA, including stipulated penalties ranging between $1,000 to $2,500 per day. We are also subject to a stipulated penalty of $50,000 for each false certification made by us or on our behalf, pursuant to the reporting provisions of the CIA. The CIA increases the amount of information we must provide to the federal government regarding our healthcare practices and our compliance with federal regulations. The reports we provide in connection with the CIA could result in greater scrutiny by regulatory authorities.. If we experience growth in self-pay volume and revenues or if we experience deterioration in the collectability of patient responsibility accounts, our financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our primary collection risks relate to uninsured patients and outstanding patient balances for which the primary insurance payor has paid some but not all of the outstanding balance, with the remaining outstanding balance (generally deductibles and co-payments) owed by the patient. Collections are impacted by the economic ability of patients to pay and the effectiveness of our collection efforts. Significant changes in payor mix, business office operations, economic conditions or trends in federal and state governmental healthcare coverage may affect our collection of accounts receivable and are considered in our estimates of accounts receivable collectability.. 37. Table of Contents. Efforts to repeal or revise the Affordable Care Act have cast considerable uncertainty on the future of the law and its effects on the size of the uninsured population. For example, as part of the Tax Act adopted in 2017, Congress eliminated, effective January 1, 2019, the financial penalty associated with the Affordable Care Act's mandate that individuals enroll in an insurance plan, which may impact the number of individuals who elect to purchase health insurance. In addition, the number and identity of states that choose to expand or otherwise modify Medicaid programs, and the terms of those changes, continues to evolve. These variables, among others, make it difficult to predict the number of uninsured individuals and what percentage of our total revenue will be comprised of self-pay revenues.. Moreover, we may still be adversely affected by the growth in patient responsibility accounts as a result of increases in the adoption of plan structures, including health savings accounts, narrow networks and tiered networks, which shift greater responsibility for care to individuals through greater exclusions and copayment and deductible amounts. Further, our ability to collect patient responsibility accounts may be limited by statutory, regulatory and investigatory initiatives, including private lawsuits directed at hospital charges and collection practices for uninsured and underinsured patients. In addition, a deterioration of economic conditions in the United States could potentially lead to higher levels of uninsured patients, result in higher levels of patients covered by lower paying government programs, result in fiscal uncertainties at both government payors and private insurers and/or limit the economic ability of patients to make payments for which they are responsible. If we experience growth in self-pay volume or deterioration in collectability of patient responsibility accounts, our financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected.. Many of the non-urban communities in which we operate continue to face challenging economic conditions, and the failure of certain employers, or the closure of certain manufacturing and other facilities in our markets, could have a disproportionate impact on our hospitals.. Many of the non-urban communities in which we operate continue to face challenging economic conditions, including higher levels of unemployment than other regions of the United States. In addition, the economies in the non-urban communities in which our hospitals primarily operate are often dependent on a small number of large employers, especially manufacturing or similar facilities. These employers often provide income and health insurance for a disproportionately large number of community residents who may depend on our hospitals for care. The failure of one or more large employers, or the closure or substantial reduction in the number of individuals employed at manufacturing or other facilities located in or near many of the non-urban communities in which our hospitals primarily operate, could cause affected employees to move elsewhere for employment or lose insurance coverage that was otherwise available to them. When patients are experiencing personal financial difficulties or have concerns about general economic conditions, they may:. <U+0095>   delay or forgo elective procedures;. <U+0095>   purchase a high-deductible insurance plan or no insurance at all, which increases a hospital's dependence on self-pay revenue; or. <U+0095>   choose to seek care in emergency rooms.. The occurrence of these events may cause a reduction in our revenues and adversely impact our results of operations.. If there are delays in regulatory updates by governmental entities to federal and state healthcare programs, we may experience increased volatility in our operating results as such delays may result in a timing difference between when such program revenues are earned and when they become known or estimable for purposes of accounting recognition.. We derive a significant amount of our net operating revenues from governmental healthcare programs, primarily Medicare and Medicaid. The reimbursements due to us from those programs are subject to legislative. 38. Table of Contents. and regulatory changes that can have a significant impact on our operating results. When delays occur in the implementation of regulations or passage of legislation, there is the potential for material increases or decreases in operating revenues to be recognized in periods subsequent to when such related services were performed, resulting in the potential for an adverse effect on our consolidated financial position and consolidated results of operations.. If our adoption and utilization of electronic health record systems fails to satisfy HHS standards, our consolidated results of operations could be adversely affected.. Under the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH, and other laws, HHS has established Medicare and Medicaid incentive programs to encourage hospitals and healthcare professionals to adopt EHR technology. Eligible hospitals can receive Medicaid incentive payments for their adoption and meaningful use of certified EHR technology; Medicare incentive payments are no longer available. Eligible hospitals that fail to demonstrate meaningful use of certified EHR technology and have not applied and qualified for a hardship exception are subject to reduced reimbursement from Medicare. Eligible healthcare professionals are also subject to positive or negative payment adjustments based, in part, on their use of EHR technology. Thus, if our hospitals and employed professionals are unable to properly adopt, maintain, and utilize certified EHR systems, we will not be eligible to receive incentive payments (to the extent incentive payments remain available), and we could be subject to penalties and lawsuits that may have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial position and consolidated results of operations.. Our operations could be significantly impacted by interruptions or restrictions in access to our information systems.. Our operations depend heavily on effective information systems to process clinical, operational and financial information. Information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain and enhance existing systems and to develop new systems in order to keep pace with continual changes in information technology. We also sometimes rely on third-party providers of financial, clinical, patient accounting and network information services and, as a result, we face operational challenges in maintaining multiple provider platforms and facilitating the interface of such systems with one another. We rely on these third-party providers to have appropriate controls to protect confidential information. We do not control the information systems of third-party providers, and in some cases we may have difficulty accessing information archived on third-party systems.. Our networks and information systems are also subject to disruption due to events such as a major earthquake, fire, telecommunications failure, ransomware or terrorist attacks or other catastrophic events. If the information systems on which we rely fail or are interrupted or if our access to these systems is limited in the future, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. A cyber-attack or security breach could result in the compromise of our facilities, confidential data or critical data systems and give rise to potential harm to patients, remediation and other expenses, expose us to liability under HIPAA, consumer protection laws, common law or other theories, subject us to litigation and federal and state governmental inquiries, damage our reputation, and otherwise be disruptive to our business.. We rely extensively on our computer systems to manage clinical and financial data, communicate with our patients, payors, vendors and other third parties and summarize and analyze operating results. We have made significant investments in technology to protect our systems and information from cybersecurity risks. During the second quarter of 2014, our computer network was the target of an external, criminal cyber-attack in which the attacker successfully copied and transferred certain data outside the Company. This data included certain non-medical patient identification data (such as patient names, addresses, birthdates, telephone numbers and social security numbers) considered protected under HIPAA, but did not include patient credit card, medical or clinical information. The remediation efforts in response to the attack have been substantial, including continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems,. 39. Table of Contents. computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access. Also in connection with the cyber-attack, we have been subject to multiple purported class action lawsuits and may be subject to additional litigation, potential governmental inquiries and potential reputation damages.. In spite of our security measures, there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to additional cyber-attacks or security breaches in the future. Such attacks or breaches could impact the integrity, availability or privacy of protected health information or other data subject to privacy laws or disrupt our information technology systems, devices or business, including our ability to provide various healthcare services. Additionally, growing cyber-security threats related to the use of ransomware and other malicious software threaten the access and utilization of critical information technology and data. As a result, cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, process and practices designed to protect our information systems from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for us. Our ability to recover from a ransomware or other cyber-attack is dependent on these practices, including successful backup systems and other recovery procedures. As cyber-threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. If we are subject to cyber-attacks or security breaches in the future, this could result in harm to patients; business interruptions and delays; the loss, misappropriation, corruption or unauthorized access of data; litigation and potential liability under privacy, security and consumer protection laws or other applicable laws; reputational damage and federal and state governmental inquiries, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. A pandemic, epidemic or outbreak of an infectious disease in the markets in which we operate or that otherwise impacts our facilities could adversely impact our business.. If a pandemic, epidemic, outbreak of an infectious disease or other public health crisis were to affect our markets, our business could be adversely affected. Such a crisis could diminish the public trust in healthcare facilities, especially hospitals that fail to accurately or timely diagnose, or that are treating (or have treated) patients affected by contagious diseases. If any of our facilities were involved in treating patients for such a contagious disease, other patients might cancel elective procedures or fail to seek needed care at our facilities. Further, a pandemic might adversely impact our business by causing a temporary shutdown or diversion of patients, by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of materials and products in the supply chain or by causing staffing shortages in our facilities. Although we have disaster plans in place and operate pursuant to infectious disease protocols, the potential impact of a pandemic, epidemic or outbreak of an infectious disease with respect to our markets or our facilities is difficult to predict and could adversely impact our business.. Our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians.. The success of our healthcare facilities depends in part on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our healthcare facilities, our ability to employ quality physicians, the admitting and utilization practices of employed and independent physicians, maintaining good relations with those physicians and controlling costs related to the employment of physicians. Although we employ some physicians, physicians are often not employees at our healthcare facilities at which they practice. In many of the markets we serve, many physicians have admitting privileges at other healthcare facilities in addition to our healthcare facilities. Such physicians may terminate their affiliation with or employment by our healthcare facilities at any time. In addition, we may face increased challenges in this area as the physician population reaches retirement age, especially if there is a shortage of physicians willing and able to provide comparable services. Moreover, if we are unable to provide adequate support personnel or technologically advanced equipment and facilities that meet the needs of those physicians and their patients, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities, admissions may decrease and our operating performance may decline.. 40. Table of Contents. Our labor costs could be adversely affected by competition for staffing, the shortage of experienced nurses and labor union activity.. In addition to our physicians, the operations of our healthcare facilities are dependent on the efforts, abilities and experience of our management and medical support personnel, such as nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians. We compete with other healthcare providers in recruiting and retaining qualified management and support personnel responsible for the daily operations of our healthcare facilities, including nurses and other non-physician healthcare professionals. In some markets, the availability of nurses and other medical support personnel has been a significant operating issue to healthcare providers. We may be required to continue to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or to hire more expensive temporary or contract personnel. In addition, the states in which we operate could adopt mandatory nurse-staffing ratios or could reduce mandatory nurse-staffing ratios already in place. State-mandated nurse-staffing ratios could significantly affect labor costs and have an adverse impact on revenues if we are required to limit admissions in order to meet the required ratios.. Increased or ongoing labor union activity is another factor that could adversely affect our labor costs or otherwise adversely impact us. To the extent a significant portion of our employee base unionizes, our labor costs could increase significantly. In addition, when negotiating collective bargaining agreements with unions, whether such agreements are renewals or first contracts, there is the possibility that strikes could occur during the negotiation process, and our continued operation during any strikes could increase our labor costs and otherwise adversely impact us.. If our labor costs increase, we may not be able to raise rates to offset these increased costs. Because a significant percentage of our revenues consists of fixed, prospective payments, our ability to pass along increased labor costs is constrained. In the event we are not entirely effective at recruiting and retaining qualified management, nurses and other medical support personnel, or in controlling labor costs, this could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. The industry trend towards value-based purchasing may negatively impact our revenues.. The trend toward value-based purchasing of healthcare services is gaining momentum across the healthcare industry among both government and commercial payors. Generally, value-based purchasing initiatives tie payment to the quality and efficiency of care. For example, hospital payments may be negatively impacted by the occurrence of HACs. The 25% of hospitals with the worst national risk-adjusted HAC rates for all hospitals in the previous year receive a 1% reduction in their total Medicare payments. Medicare does not reimburse for care related to HACs. In addition, federal funds may not be used under the Medicaid program to reimburse providers for services provided to treat HACs. Hospitals that experience excess readmissions for designated conditions receive reduced payments for all inpatient discharges. HHS also reduces Medicare inpatient hospital payments for all discharges by a required percentage and pools the amount collected from these reductions to fund payments to reward hospitals that meet or exceed certain quality performance standards. Further, Medicare and Medicaid require hospitals to report certain quality data to receive full reimbursement updates.. HHS has indicated that it is particularly focused on tying Medicare payments to quality or value through alternative payment models, which generally aim to make providers attentive to the quality and cost of care they deliver to patients. Examples of alternative payment models include ACOs and bundled payment arrangements. Generally, participation in bundled payment programs is voluntary, but CMS requires hospitals located in certain geographic areas to participate in programs for specified orthopedic procedures. CMS has indicated that it is developing more bundled payment models, although it is unclear whether these and other alternative payment models will successfully coordinate care and reduce costs or whether they will decrease aggregate reimbursement. Several of the nation's largest commercial payors have also expressed an intent to increase reliance on value-based reimbursement arrangements. Further, many large commercial payors require hospitals to report quality data, and several commercial payors do not reimburse hospitals for certain preventable adverse events.. 41. Table of Contents. We expect value-based purchasing programs, including programs that condition reimbursement on patient outcome measures, to become more common and to involve a higher percentage of reimbursement amounts. We are unable at this time to predict how this trend will affect our results of operations, but it could negatively impact our revenues or our cost of operations, or both.. Our revenues are somewhat concentrated in a small number of states which will make us particularly sensitive to regulatory and economic changes in those states.. Our revenues are particularly sensitive to regulatory and economic changes in states in which we generate a significant portion of our revenues, including Florida, Pennsylvania, Texas, Indiana and Tennessee. Accordingly, any change in the current demographic, economic, competitive or regulatory conditions in these states could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes to the Medicaid programs in these states could also have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In December 2017, CMS announced that it will phase out federal matching funds for Designated State Health Programs under waivers granted pursuant to section 1115 of the Social Security Act. Currently the Texas Healthcare Transformation and Quality Improvement Program, or the Texas Waiver Program, which provides funding for uncompensated care and delivery system reform initiatives, is operated under such a waiver. In December 2017, CMS approved an extension of this waiver through September 30, 2022. In addition, effective October 1, 2019, CMS will require Texas to revise the disbursement methodology for uncompensated care pool funding to align with federal policies. Texas will not receive any federal financial participation for uncompensated care pool payments for the demonstration years after October 1, 2019, until CMS approves an Uncompensated Care Protocol Addendum. We cannot predict whether the Texas Waiver Program will be further extended or changed or guarantee that revenues recognized from the program will not decrease.. In addition, some of our hospitals in Florida, Texas and other areas along the Gulf Coast are located in hurricane-prone areas. In the past, hurricanes have had a disruptive effect on the operations of our hospitals in Florida, Texas and other coastal states and the patient populations in those states. Our business activities could be harmed by a particularly active hurricane season or even a single storm, and the property insurance we obtain may not be adequate to cover losses from future hurricanes or other natural disasters."
