[1] "ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS. Our operations are subject to many risks that could adversely affect our future financial condition and performance and, therefore, the market value of our common stock. The risk factors applicable to us are the following:. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking and financial services industry.. We face vigorous competition from other commercial banks, savings banks, credit unions, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other types of financial institutions for deposits, loans and other financial services in our market area. A number of these banks and other financial institutions are significantly larger than we are and have substantially greater access to capital and other resources, as well as larger lending limits and branch systems, and offer a wider array of banking services. Many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern us. As a result, these non-bank competitors have advantages over us in providing certain services.. 11. While we believe we compete effectively with these other financial institutions in our primary markets, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size, smaller asset base, lack of geographic diversification and inability to spread our marketing costs across a broader market. If we have to raise interest rates paid on deposits or lower interest rates charged on loans to compete effectively, our net interest margin and income could be negatively affected. Failure to compete effectively to attract new, or to retain existing, clients may reduce or limit our margins and our market share and may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and growth.. We may be adversely affected by economic conditions in our market area.. We operate in a mixed market environment with influences from both rural and urban areas. Because our lending operation is concentrated in localized areas in Virginia and Maryland, we will be affected by the general economic conditions in these markets. Changes in the local economy may influence the growth rate of our loans and deposits, the quality of the loan portfolio, and loan and deposit pricing. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control would impact these local economic conditions and the demand for banking products and services generally, which could negatively affect our financial condition and performance. Although we might not have significant credit exposure to all the businesses in our areas, the downturn in any of these businesses could have a negative impact on local economic conditions and real estate collateral values generally, which could negatively affect our profitability.. We may not be able to successfully manage our long-term growth, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. A key aspect of our long-term business strategy is our continued growth and expansion. Our ability to continue to grow depends, in part, upon our ability to:. ·open new branch offices or acquire existing branches or other financial institutions;. ·attract deposits to those locations; and. ·identify attractive loan and investment opportunities.. We may not be able to successfully implement our growth strategy if we are unable to identify attractive markets, locations or opportunities to expand in the future, or if we are subject to regulatory restrictions on growth or expansion of our operations. In addition, we compete with our companies for acquisition and expansion opportunities, and many of those competitors have greater financial resources than us and thus may be able to pay more for such an opportunity than we can.. Our ability to manage our growth successfully also will depend on whether we can maintain capital levels adequate to support our growth, maintain cost controls and asset quality and successfully integrate any businesses we acquire into our organization. As we identify opportunities to implement our growth strategy by opening new branches or acquiring branches or other banks, we may incur increased personnel, occupancy and other operating expenses. In the case of new branches, we must absorb those higher expenses while we begin to generate new deposits, and there is a further time lag involved in redeploying new deposits into attractively priced loans and other higher yielding earning assets. Thus, any plans for branch expansion could decrease our earnings in the short run, even if we efficiently execute our branching strategy.. We may incur losses if we are unable to successfully manage interest rate risk.. Our profitability depends in substantial part upon the spread between the interest rates earned on investments and loans and interest rates paid on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities. These rates are normally in line with general market rates and rise and fall based on our view of our financing and liquidity needs. We may selectively pay above-market rates to attract deposits as we have done in some of our marketing promotions in the past. Changes in interest rates will affect our operating performance and financial condition in diverse ways including the pricing of securities, loans and deposits, which, in turn, may affect the growth in loan and retail deposit volume. We attempt to minimize our exposure to interest rate risk, but cannot eliminate it. Our net interest income will be adversely affected if market interest rates change so that the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings increases faster than the interest earned on loans and investments. Our net interest spread will depend on many factors that are partly or entirely outside our control, including competition, federal economic, monetary and fiscal policies and economic conditions generally. Fluctuations in market rates are neither predictable nor controllable and may have a material and negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our loans. An increase in interest rates could adversely affect our borrowers’ ability to pay the principal or interest on existing loans or reduce their desire to borrow more money. This situation may lead to an increase in non-performing assets or a decrease in loan originations, either of which could have a material and negative effect on our results of operations.. 12. Our operations may be adversely affected by cyber security risks.. In the ordinary course of business, we collect and store sensitive data, including proprietary business information and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees in systems and on networks. The secure processing, maintenance, and use of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. In addition, we rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption, or breach in security or operational integrity of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. We have invested in accepted technologies, and we continually review processes and practices that are designed to protect our networks, computers and data from damage or unauthorized access. Despite these security measures, our computer systems and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. A breach of any kind could compromise systems, and the information stored there could be accessed, damaged or disclosed. A breach in security or other failure could result in legal claims, regulatory penalties, disruption in operations, increased expenses, loss of customers and business partners and damage to our reputation, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Furthermore, as cyber threats continue to evolve and increase, we may be required to expend significant additional financial and operational resources to modify or enhance our protective measures, or to investigate and remediate any identified information security vulnerabilities.. Our liquidity needs could adversely affect results of operations and financial condition.. Our primary sources of funds are deposits and loan repayments. While scheduled loan repayments are a relatively stable source of funds, they are subject to the ability of borrowers to repay the loans. The ability of borrowers to repay loans can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, changes in economic conditions, adverse trends or events affecting business industry groups, reductions in real estate values or markets, availability of, and/or access to, sources of refinancing, business closings or lay-offs, inclement weather, natural disasters and international instability. Additionally, deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, regulatory capital requirements, returns available to customers on alternative investments and general economic conditions. Accordingly, we may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity to meet withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations. Such sources include FHLB advances, sales of securities and loans, federal funds lines of credit from correspondent banks and borrowings from the Federal Reserve Discount Window, as well as additional out-of-market time deposits and brokered deposits. While we believe that these sources are currently adequate, there can be no assurance they will be sufficient to meet future liquidity demands, particularly if we continue to grow and experience increasing loan demand. We may be required to slow or discontinue loan growth, capital expenditures or other investments or liquidate assets should such sources not be adequate.. If our allowance for loan losses becomes inadequate, our results of operations may be adversely affected.. An essential element of our business is to make loans. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses in our loan portfolio. Through a periodic review and analysis of the loan portfolio, management determines the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses by considering such factors as general and industry-specific market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio, the collateral supporting the loans and financial performance of our loan customers relative to their financial obligations to us. The amount of future losses is impacted by changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond our control. Actual losses may exceed our current estimates. Rapidly growing loan portfolios are, by their nature, unseasoned. Estimating loan loss allowances for an unseasoned portfolio is more difficult than with seasoned portfolios, and may be more susceptible to changes in estimates and to losses exceeding estimates. Although we believe the allowance for loan losses is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses in our loan portfolio, we cannot fully predict such losses or assert that our loan loss allowance will be adequate in the future. Future loan losses that are greater than current estimates could have a material impact on our future financial performance.. Banking regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize additional loan charge-offs, based on credit judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in the amount of our allowance or loans charged-off as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our operating results.. Our concentration in loans secured by real estate may increase our future credit losses, which would negatively affect our financial results.. We offer a variety of secured loans, including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer and other loans. Credit risk and credit losses can increase if our loans are concentrated to borrowers who, as a group, may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions. Approximately 83.23% of our loans are secured by real estate, both residential and commercial, substantially all of which are located in our market area. A major change in the region’s real estate market, resulting in a deterioration in real estate values, or in the local or national economy, including changes caused by raising interest rates, could adversely affect our customers’ ability to pay these loans, which in turn could adversely impact us. Risk of loan defaults and foreclosures are inherent in the banking industry, and we try to limit our exposure to this risk by carefully underwriting and monitoring our extensions of credit. We cannot fully eliminate credit risk, and as a result credit losses may occur in the future.. 13. If our concentration in commercial real estate increases significantly, we may have to take certain actions that could impact our balance sheet.. Regulators have been paying close attention to banks with higher commercial real estate concentrations, due to concerns about credit risk building in the industry. Concentration levels of concern include commercial real estate loans making up at least 300% of a bank’s total risk-based capital, construction, land development and other land loans comprising 100% or more of total risk-based capital and construction and total commercial real estate growth of 50% or more over the prior 36 months. While we currently are below all of these levels, if we exceed one or more of them, we may have to take certain actions to minimize the risk associated with higher concentration levels and otherwise bolster our balance sheet. These actions include ensuring robust risk management practices, including conducting regular appraisals, analyzing borrowers’ ability to repay credits, evaluating local economic conditions and operating with enhanced reporting and systems. At an extreme, these actions can also include curtailing our lending in these areas and raising capital.. We rely heavily on our management team and the unexpected loss of any of those personnel could adversely affect our operations; we depend on our ability to attract and retain key personnel.. We are a customer-focused and relationship-driven organization. We expect our future growth to be driven in a large part by the relationships maintained with our customers by our president and chief executive officer and other senior officers. The unexpected loss of any of our key employees could have an adverse effect on our business and possibly result in reduced revenues and earnings. We do maintain bank-owned life insurance on key officers that would help cover some of the economic impact of a loss caused by death.. The implementation of our business strategy will also require us to continue to attract, hire, motivate and retain skilled personnel to develop new customer relationships as well as new financial products and services. Many experienced banking professionals employed by our competitors are covered by agreements not to compete or to solicit their existing customers if they were to leave their current employment. These agreements make the recruitment of these professionals more difficult. The market for these people is competitive, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting, hiring, motivating or retaining them.. The financial services industry, as well as the broader economy, may be subject to new legislation, regulation, and government policy.. At this time, it is difficult to predict the legislative and regulatory changes that will result from the current presidential and congressional administrations. The President and/or Congress may change existing financial services regulations or enact new policies affecting financial institutions, specifically community banks. Such changes may include amendments to the Dodd-Frank Act and structural changes to the CFPB. The new administration and Congress also may cause broader economic changes due to changes in governing ideology and governing style. New appointments to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve could affect monetary policy and interest rates, and changes in fiscal policy could affect broader patterns of trade and economic growth. Future legislation, regulation, and government policy could affect the banking industry as a whole, including our business and results of operations, in ways that are difficult to predict. In addition, our results of operations also could be adversely affected by changes in the way in which existing statutes and regulations are interpreted or applied by courts and government agencies.. We are subject to more stringent capital and liquidity requirements as a result of the Basel III regulatory capital reforms and the Dodd-Frank Act, which could adversely affect our return on equity and otherwise affect our business.. We are subject to capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements specifying minimum amounts and types of capital that we must maintain. From time to time, regulators implement changes to these regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the federal banking agencies have established stricter capital requirements and leverage limits for banks and bank holding companies that are based on the Basel III regulatory capital reforms. These stricter capital requirements will be phased-in over a four-year period, which began on January 1, 2015, until they are fully-implemented on January 1, 2019. See “Business - Supervision and Regulation – Capital Requirements” for further information about the requirements.. The application of more stringent capital requirements could, among other things, result in lower returns on equity, require the raising of additional capital and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business models and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk-based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying its business strategy and could limit our ability to use its capital for strategic opportunities. If we fail to meet these minimum capital guidelines and/or other regulatory requirements, our financial condition would be materially and adversely affected.. 14. New regulations issued by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau could adversely affect our earnings.. The CFPB has broad rulemaking authority to administer and carry out the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act with respect to financial institutions that offer covered financial products and services to consumers. The CFPB has also been directed to write rules identifying practices or acts that are unfair, deceptive or abusive in connection with any transaction with a consumer for a consumer financial product or service, or the offering of a consumer financial product or service. For example, the CFPB issued a final rule in 2014 requiring mortgage lenders to make a reasonable and good faith determination based on verified and documented information that a consumer applying for a mortgage loan has a reasonable ability to repay the loan according to its terms, or to originate “qualified mortgages” that meet specific requirements with respect to terms, pricing and fees. The new rule also contains new disclosure requirements at mortgage loan origination and in monthly statements.. The requirements under the CFPB’s regulations and policies could limit our ability to make certain types of loans or loans to certain borrowers, or could make it more expensive and/or time consuming to make these loans, which could adversely impact our profitability.. We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure.. Third parties provide key components of our business operations such as data processing, recording and monitoring transactions, online banking interfaces and services, internet connections and network access. While we have selected these third party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problem caused by these third parties, including poor performance of services, failure to provide services, disruptions in services provided by a vendor and failure to handle current or higher volumes, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise conduct our business, and may harm our reputation. Financial or operational difficulties of a third party vendor could also hurt our operations if those difficulties affect the vendor’s ability to serve us. Replacing these third party vendors could also create significant delay and expense. Accordingly, use of such third parties creates an unavoidable inherent risk to our business operations.. The operational functions of business counterparties over which we may have limited or no control may experience disruptions that could adversely impact the Company.. Multiple major U.S. retailers have recently experienced data systems incursions reportedly resulting in the thefts of credit and debit card information, online account information, and other financial data of tens of millions of the retailers’ customers. Retailer incursions affect cards issued and deposit accounts maintained by many banks, including us. Although our systems are not breached in retailer incursions, these events can cause us to reissue a significant number of cards and take other costly steps to avoid significant theft loss to us and our customers. In some cases, we may be required to reimburse customers for the losses they incur. Other possible points of intrusion or disruption not within our control include internet service providers, electronic mail portal providers, social media portals, distant-server (cloud) service providers, electronic data security providers, telecommunications companies, and smart phone manufacturers.. We may need to raise capital that may not ultimately be available to us.. Regulatory authorities require us to maintain certain levels of capital to support our operations. While we remained “well capitalized” at December 31, 2017, we may need to raise additional capital in the future if we unexpectedly incur losses or due to regulatory mandates. The ability to raise capital, if needed, will depend in part on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we may not be able to raise capital, if and when needed, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot raise capital when needed, our ability to increase our capital ratios could be materially impaired, and we could face regulatory challenges.. We continually encounter technological change.. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations.. 15. A substantial decline in the value of our securities portfolio may result in an “other-than-temporary” impairment charge.. The total amount of our available-for-sale securities portfolio was $204.8 million at December 31, 2017. The measurement of the fair value of these securities involves significant judgment due to the complexity of the factors contributing to the measurement. Market volatility makes measurement of the fair value of our securities portfolio even more difficult and subjective. More generally, as market conditions continue to be volatile, we cannot provide assurance with respect to the amount of future unrealized losses in the portfolio. To the extent that any portion of the unrealized losses in these portfolios is determined to be other than temporary, and the loss is related to credit factors, we would recognize a charge to our earnings in the quarter during which such determination is made, and our capital ratios could be adversely affected.. Consumers may increasingly decide not to use us to complete their financial transactions, which would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operations.. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions through alternative methods that historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts, mutual funds or general-purpose reloadable prepaid cards. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as “disintermediation,” could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost of deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Nonperforming assets adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our nonperforming assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans, thereby adversely affecting our income and increasing loan administration costs. When we receive collateral through foreclosures and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the related loan to the then fair market value of the collateral less estimated selling costs, which may result in a loss. An increase in the level of nonperforming assets also increases our risk profile and may impact the capital levels our regulators believe is appropriate in light of such risks. We utilize various techniques such as loan sales, workouts and restructurings to manage our problem assets. Decreases in the value of these problem assets, the underlying collateral, or in the borrowers’ performance or financial condition, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires significant commitments of time from management and staff, which can be detrimental to performance of their other responsibilities. Such resolution may also require the assistance of third parties, and thus the expense associated with it. There can be no assurance that we will avoid further increases in nonperforming loans in the future.. We rely upon independent appraisals to determine the value of the real estate, which secures a significant portion of our loans, and the values indicated by such appraisals may not be realizable if we are forced to foreclose upon such loans.. A significant portion of our loan portfolio consists of loans secured by real estate (83.23% at December 31, 2017). We rely upon independent appraisers to estimate the value of such real estate. Appraisals are only estimates of value and the independent appraisers may make mistakes of fact or judgment which adversely affect the reliability of their appraisals. In addition, events occurring after the initial appraisal may cause the value of the real estate to increase or decrease. As a result of any of these factors, the real estate securing some of our loans may be more or less valuable than anticipated at the time the loans were made. If a default occurs on a loan secured by real estate that is less valuable than originally estimated, we may not be able to recover the outstanding balance of the loan and will suffer a loss.. Our risk-management framework may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss.. We maintain an enterprise risk management program that is designed to identify, quantify, monitor, report, and control the risks that we face. These risks include interest-rate, credit, liquidity, operations, reputation, compliance and litigation. While we assess and improve this program on an ongoing basis, there can be no assurance that its approach and framework for risk management and related controls will effectively mitigate all risk and limit losses in our business. If conditions or circumstances arise that expose flaws or gaps in our risk-management program, or if its controls break down, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.. 16. Negative perception of us through social media may adversely affect our reputation and business.. Our reputation is critical to the success of our business. We believe that our brand image has been well received by customers, reflecting the fact that the brand image, like our business, is based in part on trust and confidence. Our reputation and brand image could be negatively affected by rapid and widespread distribution of publicity through social media channels. Our reputation could also be affected by our association with customers affected negatively through social media distribution, or other third parties, or by circumstances outside of our control. Negative publicity, whether true or untrue, could affect our ability to attract or retain customers, or cause us to incur additional liabilities or costs, or result in additional regulatory scrutiny.. We are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision.. We are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, and not security holders. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes.. The banking industry continues to be faced with new and complex regulatory requirements and enhanced supervisory oversight. Banking regulators are increasingly concerned about, among other things, growth, commercial real estate concentrations, underwriting of commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loans, capital levels and cyber security. These factors are exerting downward pressure on revenues and upward pressure on required capital levels and the cost of doing business.. These provisions, or any other aspects of current proposed regulatory or legislative changes to laws applicable to the financial industry, if enacted or adopted, may impact the profitability of our business activities or change certain of our business practices, including our ability to offer new products, obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans, and achieve satisfactory interest spreads, and could expose us to additional costs, including increased compliance costs. These changes also may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes to our operations in order to comply, and could therefore also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Furthermore, failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in accounting standards could impact reported earnings.. The authorities that promulgate accounting standards, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board and Securities and Exchange Commission, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements. These changes are difficult to predict and can materially impact how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, the Company could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of financial statements for prior periods. Such changes could also require the Company to incur additional personnel or technology costs.. Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud.. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, and recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. We believe that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or omission. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by individual acts, by collusion by two or more people and/or by override of the established controls. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control systems and in human nature, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.. We can give no assurances that our deferred tax asset will not become impaired in the future because it is based on projections of future earnings, which are subject to uncertainty and estimates that may change based on economic conditions.. We can give no assurances that our deferred tax asset will not become impaired in the future. At December 31, 2017, we recorded net deferred income tax assets of $6.1 million. We assess the realization of deferred income tax assets and record a valuation allowance if it is “more likely than not” that we will not realize all or a portion of the deferred tax asset. We consider all available evidence, both positive and negative, to determine whether, based on the weight of that evidence, we need a valuation allowance. Management’s assessment is primarily dependent on historical taxable income and projections of future taxable income, which are directly related to our core earnings capacity and our prospects to generate core earnings in the future. Projections of core earnings and taxable income are inherently subject to uncertainty and estimates that may change given an uncertain economic outlook and current banking industry conditions. Due to the uncertainty of estimates and projections, it is possible that we will be required to record adjustments to the valuation allowance in future reporting periods.. 17. Deterioration in the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, could create market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Our credit risk may also be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. We may be adversely impacted by changes in the condition of financial markets.. We are directly and indirectly affected by changes in market conditions. Market risk generally represents the risk that values of assets and liabilities or revenues will be adversely affected by changes in market conditions. Market risk is inherent in the financial instruments associated with our operations and activities including loans, deposits, securities, short-term borrowings, long-term debt, trading account assets and liabilities, and derivatives. Just a few of the market conditions that may shift from time to time, thereby exposing us to market risk, include fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates, equity and futures prices, and price deterioration or changes in value due to changes in market perception or actual credit quality of issuers. Accordingly, depending on the instruments or activities impacted, market risks can have adverse effects on our results of operations and our overall financial condition.. Banking regulators have broad enforcement power, but regulations are meant to protect depositors, and not investors.. We are subject to supervision by several governmental regulatory agencies, including the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond and Virginia’s Bureau of Financial Institutions. Bank regulations, and the interpretation and application of them by regulators, are beyond our control, may change rapidly and unpredictably and can be expected to influence earnings and growth. In addition, these regulations may limit our growth and the return to investors by restricting activities such as the payment of dividends, mergers with, or acquisitions by, other institutions, investments, loans and interest rates, interest rates paid on deposits and the opening of new branch offices. Although these regulations impose costs on us, they are intended to protect depositors, and should not be assumed to protect the interest of shareholders. The regulations to which we are subject may not always be in the best interest of investors.. The FDIC deposit insurance assessments that we are required to pay may increase in the future, which would have an adverse effect on earnings.. As an insured depository institution, we are required to pay quarterly deposit insurance premium assessments to the FDIC to maintain the level of the FDIC deposit insurance reserve ratio. The past failures of financial institutions have significantly increased the loss provisions of the DIF, resulting in a decline in the reserve ratio. As a result of recent economic conditions and the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC revised its assessment rates, which raised deposit premiums for certain insured depository institutions. If these increases are insufficient for the DIF to meet its funding requirements, further special assessments or increases in deposit insurance premiums may be required. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, the FDIC may increase the deposit insurance assessment rates. Any future assessments, increases or required prepayments in FDIC insurance premiums may materially adversely affect earnings and could negatively affect our stock price.. 18. Our businesses and earnings are impacted by governmental, fiscal and monetary policy.. We are affected by domestic monetary policy. For example, the Federal Reserve Board regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States and its policies determine in large part our cost of funds for lending, investing and capital raising activities and the return we earn on those loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest margin. The actions of the Federal Reserve Board also can materially affect the value of financial instruments we hold, such as loans and debt securities, and its policies also can affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Our businesses and earnings also are affected by the fiscal or other policies that are adopted by various regulatory authorities of the United States. Changes in fiscal or monetary policy are beyond our control and hard to predict.. Our profitability and the value of any equity investment in us may suffer because of rapid and unpredictable changes in the highly regulated environment in which we operate.. We are subject to extensive supervision by several governmental regulatory agencies at the federal and state levels. Recently enacted, proposed and future banking and other legislation and regulations have had, and will continue to have, or may have a significant impact on the financial services industry. These regulations, which are generally intended to protect depositors and not our shareholders, and the interpretation and application of them by federal and state regulators, are beyond our control, may change rapidly and unpredictably, and can be expected to influence our earnings and growth. Our success depends on our continued ability to maintain compliance with these regulations. Many of these regulations increase our costs and thus place other financial institutions that may not be subject to similar regulation in stronger, more favorable competitive positions.. The trading volume in our common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies.. The trading volume in our common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the lower trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause our stock price to fall.. Virginia law and the provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws could deter or prevent takeover attempts by a potential purchaser of our common stock that would be willing to pay you a premium for your shares of our common stock.. Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws contain provisions that may be deemed to have the effect of discouraging or delaying uninvited attempts by third parties to gain control of us. These provisions include the ability of our board to set the price, term, and rights of, and to issue, one or more series of our preferred stock. Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws do not provide for the ability of shareholders to call special meetings.. Similarly, the Virginia Stock Corporation Act contains provisions designed to protect Virginia corporations and employees from the adverse effects of hostile corporate takeovers. These provisions reduce the possibility that a third party could affect a change in control without the support of our incumbent directors. These provisions may also strengthen the position of current management by restricting the ability of shareholders to change the composition of the board, to affect its policies generally, and to benefit from actions that are opposed by the current board."
