[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Investing in our common stock involves various risks which are specific to the Company. Several of these risks and uncertainties, are discussed below and elsewhere in this report. This listing should not be considered as all-inclusive. These factors represent risks and uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Other risks that we do not know about now, or that we do not believe are significant, could negatively impact our business or the trading price of our securities. In addition to common business risks such as theft, loss of market share and disasters, the Company is subject to special types of risk due to the nature of its business. See additional discussions about credit, interest rate, market and litigation risks in \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" section of this report beginning on page 15 and additional information regarding legislative and regulatory risks in the \"Supervision and Regulation\" section beginning on page 37.. Our business may be adversely affected by downturns in the national economy and in the economies in our market areas.. Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in the State of California. A decline in the economies of our local market areas of Santa Barbara, San Luis Obispo, and Ventura Counties in which we operate, and which we consider to be our primary market areas, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. A deterioration in economic conditions in the market areas we serve could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations:.   loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase;.   the sale of foreclosed assets may slow;.   demand for our products and services may decline possibly resulting in a decrease in our total loans or assets;.   collateral for loans made may decline further in value, exposing us to increased loan risks, reducing customers' borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans;.   the net worth and liquidity of loan guarantors may decline, impairing their ability to honor commitments to us; and.   the amount of our low-cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease and the composition of our deposits may be adversely affected.. A decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loans are geographically diverse. If we are required to liquidate a significant amount of collateral during a period of reduced real estate values, our financial condition and profitability would be adversely affected.. The Company has liquidity risk.. Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will have insufficient cash or access to cash to satisfy current and future financial obligations, including demands for loans and deposit withdrawals, funding operating costs, and for other corporate purposes. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a material adverse effect on liquidity. Access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance business activities could be impaired by factors that affect either entity specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against either entity. The ability of CWB to acquire deposits or borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to CWB, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole. CWB mitigates liquidity risk by establishing and accessing lines of credit with various financial institutions and having back-up access to the brokered Certificate of Deposits \"CD's\" markets. Results of operations could be adversely affected if either entity were unable to satisfy current or future financial obligations.. Reserve for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses.. The risk of nonpayment of loans is inherent in all lending activities, and nonpayment, if it occurs, may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and/or results of operations. The Company maintains a reserve for loan losses to absorb estimated probable losses inherent in the loan and commitment portfolios as of the balance sheet date. Provisions are taken from earnings and applied to the loan loss reserves as the risk of loss in the loan and commitment portfolios increases. Conversely, credits to earnings from the loan loss reserves are made when asset qualities improve resulting in a decrease in the risk of loss in the loan and commitment portfolios. As of December 31, 2017, the Company's allowance for loan losses was $8.4 million, or 1.24% of loans held for investment. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, the Company had $6.8 million in loans on nonaccrual, $2.4 million of which are government guaranteed. In determining the appropriate level of the reserve for loan losses, Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the loan portfolio. Management relies on an analysis of the loan portfolio based on historical loss experience, volume and types of loans, trends in classifications, volume and trends in delinquencies and non-accruals, national and local economic conditions and other pertinent information known at the time of the analysis. If Management's assumptions are incorrect, the reserve for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and/or results of operations. While the allowance for loan losses was determined to be adequate at December 31, 2017, based on the information available to us at the time, there can be no assurance that the allowance will be adequate to cover actual losses in the loan portfolio in the future.. 7. Index. All of our lending involves underwriting risks.. Lending, even when secured by the assets of a business, involves considerable risk of loss in the event of failure of the business. To reduce such risk, the Company typically takes additional security interests in other collateral of the borrower, such as real property, certificates of deposit, life insurance, and/or obtains personal guarantees. Despite efforts to reduce risk of loss, additional measures may not prove sufficient as the value of the additional collateral or personal guarantees may be significantly reduced. There can be no assurances that collateral values will be sufficient to repay loans should borrowers become unable to repay loans in accordance with their original terms and, if not, the cumulative effect may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and/or results of operations.. The Company is dependent on real estate concentrated in the State of California.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately $460.8 million, or 63%, of our loan portfolio is secured by various forms of real estate, including residential and commercial real estate. A decline in current economic conditions or rising interest rates could have an adverse effect on the demand for new loans, the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans and the value of real estate and other collateral securing loans. The real estate securing our loan portfolio is concentrated in California. A decline in the real estate market could materially and adversely affect the business of CWB because a significant portion of its loans are secured by real estate. The ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished and CWB would be more likely to suffer losses on loans. Substantially all of the real property collateral is located in California. If there is an additional decline in real estate values, especially in California, the collateral for their loans would provide less security. Real estate values could be affected by, among other things, a decline of economic conditions, an increase in foreclosures, a decline in home sale volumes, an increase in interest rates, high levels of unemployment, drought, earthquakes, brush fires and other natural disasters particular to California.. California's current drought may impact the economy.. At December 31, 2017, CWB had $35.5 million of agricultural loans which would be most impacted by the drought. The overall economy of California may be negatively impacted by drought as the cost of water and availability of water may increase the operating costs for businesses which could negatively affect the Company's operating results, loan quality and collateral.. We operate in a highly regulated industry and the laws and regulations that govern our operations, corporate governance, executive compensation and financial accounting or reporting, including changes in them, or our failure to comply with them, may adversely affect us.. The Company is subject to extensive regulation and supervision that govern almost all aspects of its operations. These laws and regulations, among other matters, prescribe minimum capital requirements, impose limitations on our business activities, limit the dividend or distributions that the Company can pay, restrict the ability to guarantee the Company's debt and impose certain specific accounting requirements that may be more restrictive and may result in greater or earlier charges to earnings or reductions in our capital than accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (\"GAAP\"). Compliance with laws and regulations can be difficult and costly and changes to laws and regulations often impose additional compliance costs. We are currently facing increased regulation and supervision of our industry. Such additional regulation and supervision may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Further, our failure to comply with these laws and regulations, even if the failure was inadvertent or reflects a difference in interpretation, could subject us to restrictions on our business activities, fines and other penalties, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations, capital base and the price of our securities. Further, any new laws, rules and regulations could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business and financial condition.. We are periodically subject to examination and scrutiny by a number of banking agencies and, depending upon the findings and determinations of these agencies, we may be required to make adjustments to our business that could adversely affect us.. Federal and state banking agencies periodically conduct examinations of our business, including compliance with applicable laws and regulations. If, as a result of an examination, a federal banking agency were to determine that the financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, asset concentration, earnings prospects, management, liquidity sensitivity to market risk or other aspects of any of our operations has become unsatisfactory, or that we or our management is in violation of any law or regulation, it could take a number of different remedial actions as it deems appropriate. These actions include the power to enjoin \"unsafe or unsound\" practices, to require affirmative actions to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to issue an administrative order that can be judicially enforced, to direct an increase in our capital, to restrict our growth, to change the asset composition of our portfolio or balance sheet, to assess civil monetary penalties against our officers or directors, to remove officers and directors and, if it is concluded that such conditions cannot be corrected or there is an imminent risk of loss to depositors, to terminate our deposit insurance. If we become subject to such regulatory actions, our business, results of operations and reputation may be negatively impacted.. 8. Index. The short-term and long-term impact of the regulatory capital standards and the capital rules is uncertain.. The federal banking agencies revised capital guidelines to reflect the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act and to effect the implementation of the Basel III Accords. The quantitative measures, established by the regulators to ensure capital adequacy, require that a bank holding company maintain minimum ratios of capital to risk-weighted assets. Various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act increase the capital requirements of bank holding companies, such as the Company, and non-bank financial companies that are supervised by the Federal Reserve. For a further discussion of the capital rules, see \"SUPERVISION AND REGULATION\" herein.. Curtailment of government guaranteed loan programs could affect a segment of the Company's business.. A segment of our business consists of originating and periodically selling government guaranteed loans, in particular those guaranteed by the USDA and the SBA. From time to time, the government agencies that guarantee these loans reach their internal limits and cease to guarantee loans. In addition, these agencies may change their rules for loans or Congress may adopt legislation that would have the effect of discontinuing or changing the loan programs. Non-governmental programs could replace government programs for some borrowers, but the terms might not be equally acceptable. Therefore, if these changes occur, the volume of loans to small business, industrial and agricultural borrowers of the types that now qualify for government guaranteed loans could decline. Also, the profitability of these loans could decline.. Small business customers may lack the resources to weather a downturn in the economy.. One of the primary focal points of our business development and marketing strategy is serving the banking and financial services needs of small to medium-sized businesses and professional organizations. Small businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than do larger entities. If economic conditions are generally unfavorable in the Company's service areas, the businesses of the Company's lending clients and their ability to repay outstanding loans may be negatively affected. As a consequence, the Company's results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.. If the Company lost a significant portion of its low-cost deposits, it could negatively impact its liquidity and profitability.. The Company's profitability depends in part on successfully attracting and retaining a stable base of low-cost deposits. While the Company generally does not believe these core deposits are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations, the competition for these deposits in the Company's markets is strong and customers are increasingly seeking investments that are safe, including the purchase of U.S. Treasury securities and other government-guaranteed obligations, as well as the establishment of accounts at the largest, most-well capitalized banks. If the Company were to lose a significant portion of its low-cost deposits, it would negatively impact its liquidity and profitability.. From time to time, the Company has been dependent on borrowings from the FHLB and, infrequently, the FRB, and there can be no assurance these programs will be available as needed.. As of December 31, 2017, the Company has borrowings from the FHLB of San Francisco of $50.0 million and no borrowings from the FRB. The Company in the recent past has been reliant on such borrowings to satisfy its liquidity needs. The Company's borrowing capacity is generally dependent on the value of the Company's collateral pledged to these entities. These lenders could reduce the borrowing capacity of the Company or eliminate certain types of collateral and could otherwise modify or even terminate their loan programs which could have an adverse effect on the Company's liquidity and profitability.. The Company is exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we obtain title. Approximately 48% of the Company's loan portfolio at December 31, 2017 was secured by commercial real estate. In the course of our business, the Company may foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. The Company may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if the Company is the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, it may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. These costs and claims could adversely affect the Company's business and prospects.. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect the Company's profitability, business and prospects. Most of the Company's assets and liabilities are monetary in nature, which subjects it to significant risks from changes in interest rates which can impact the Company's net income and the valuation of its assets and liabilities. Increases or decreases in prevailing interest rates could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, asset quality and prospects. The Company's operating income and net income depend to a great extent on its net interest margin. Net interest margin is the difference between the interest yields received on loans, securities and other earning assets and the interest rates paid on interest-bearing deposits, borrowings and other liabilities. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond the Company's control, including competition, general economic conditions and monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities, including the Federal Reserve. If the rate of interest paid on interest-bearing deposits, borrowings and other liabilities increases more than the rate of interest received on loans, securities and other earning assets increases, the Company's net interest income, and therefore earnings, would be adversely affected. The Company's earnings also could be adversely affected if the rates on its loans and other investments fall more quickly than those on its deposits and other liabilities.. 9. Index. In addition, loan volumes are affected by market interest rates on loans. Rising interest rates generally are associated with a lower volume of loan originations while lower interest rates are usually associated with higher loan originations. Conversely, in rising interest rate environments, loan repayment rates will decline and in falling interest rate environments, loan repayment rates will increase. The Company cannot guarantee that it will be able to minimize interest rate risk. In addition, an increase in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their debt obligations.. Interest rates also affect how much money the Company can lend. When interest rates rise, the cost of borrowing increases. Accordingly, changes in market interest rates could materially and adversely affect the Company's net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The Company's future success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in a highly competitive market. The Company faces substantial competition in all phases of its operations from a variety of different competitors. Its competitors, including commercial banks, community banks, savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks, credit unions, consumer finance companies, insurance companies, securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors, money market mutual funds, online banks, and other financial institutions, compete with lending and deposit-gathering services offered by the Company. Increased competition in the Company's markets may result in reduced loans and deposits.. There is very strong competition for financial services in the market areas in which we conduct our businesses from many local commercial banks as well as numerous national commercial banks and regionally based commercial banks. Many of these competing institutions have much greater financial and marketing resources than we have. Due to their size, many competitors can achieve larger economies of scale and may offer a broader range of products and services than us. If we are unable to offer competitive products and services, our business may be negatively affected.. Some of the financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies and federally insured depository institutions. As a result, these non-bank competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various services. The banking business in our primary market areas is very competitive, and the level of competition facing us may increase further, which may limit our asset growth and financial results.. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis could be impaired, which could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price.. The Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. If we are unable to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting, we might be unable to report our financial information on a timely basis and might suffer adverse regulatory consequences or violate listing standards. There could also be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements. We have in the past and may in the future discover areas of our internal financial and accounting controls and procedures that need improvement. Our internal control conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system will be met. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our company will be detected. If we are unable to maintain proper and effective internal controls, we may not be able to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and could result in regulatory action, and could require us to restate, our financial statements. Any such restatement could result in a loss of public confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and sanctions imposed on us by the SEC.. Changes in accounting standards or inaccurate estimates or assumptions in the application of accounting policies could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the reported value of our assets or liabilities and results of operations and are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. If those assumptions, estimates or judgments were incorrectly made, we could be required to correct and restate prior period financial statements. Accounting standard-setters and those who interpret the accounting standards (such as the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC, banking regulators and our independent registered public accounting firm) may also amend or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how various standards should be applied. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new revised standard retroactively, resulting in the need to revise and republish prior period financial statements.. 10. Index. Terrorist attacks and threats of war or actual war may impact all aspects of our operations, revenues, costs and stock price in unpredictable ways. Terrorist attacks in the United States, as well as future events occurring in response or in connection to them including, without limitation, future terrorist attacks against United States targets, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the United States or its allies or military or trade disruptions, may impact our operations. Any of these events could cause consumer confidence and savings to decrease or result in increased volatility in the United States and worldwide financial markets and economy. Any of these occurrences could have an adverse impact on the Company's operating results, revenues and costs and may result in the volatility of the market price for our securities, including our common stock, and impair their future price.. The business may be adversely affected by internet fraud.. The Company is inherently exposed to many types of operational risk, including those caused by the use of computer, internet and telecommunications systems. These risks may manifest themselves in the form of fraud by employees, by customers, other outside entities targeting us and/or our customers that use our internet banking, electronic banking or some other form of our telecommunications systems. Given the growing level of use of electronic, internet-based, and networked systems to conduct business directly or indirectly with our clients, certain fraud losses may not be avoidable regardless of the preventative and detection systems in place.. We may experience interruptions or breaches in our information system security.. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in the security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of these information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of these information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. A failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors and other service providers, including as a result of cyber attacks, could disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses. As a financial institution, we are susceptible to fraudulent activity that may be committed against us or our clients, which may result in financial losses to us or our clients, privacy breaches against our clients, or damage to our reputation. Such fraudulent activity may take many forms, including check fraud, electronic fraud, wire fraud, phishing, and other dishonest acts. In recent periods, there has been a rise in electronic fraudulent activity within the financial services industry, especially in the commercial banking sector, due to cyber criminals targeting commercial bank accounts. Consistent with industry trends, we have also experienced an increase in attempted electronic fraudulent activity in recent periods.. In addition, our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information on our computer systems and networks. Although we take numerous protective measures to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of the Company's and our clients' information across all geographic and product lines, and endeavor to modify these protective measures as circumstances warrant, the nature of the threats continues to evolve. As a result, our computer systems, software and networks and those of our customers may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data (including confidential client information), account takeovers, unavailability of service, computer viruses or other malicious code, cyber attacks and other events that could have an adverse security impact and result in significant losses by us and/or our customers. Despite the defensive measures we take to manage our internal technological and operational infrastructure, these threats may originate externally from third parties, such as foreign governments, organized crime and other hackers, and outsource or infrastructure-support providers and application developers, or the threats may originate from within our organization. Given the increasingly high volume of our transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they can be discovered and rectified.. We also face the risk of operational disruption, failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the third parties that facilitate our business activities, including exchanges, clearing agents, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries. Such parties could also be the source of an attack on, or breach of, our operational systems, data or infrastructure. In addition, as interconnectivity with our clients grows, we increasingly face the risk of operational failure with respect to our clients' systems.. Although to date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber attacks or other information security breaches, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, the outsourcing of some of our business operations, and the continued uncertain global economic environment. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.. 11. Index. We maintain an insurance policy which we believe provides sufficient coverage at a manageable expense for an institution of our size and scope with similar technological systems. However, we cannot assure that this policy will afford coverage for all possible losses or would be sufficient to cover all financial losses, damages, penalties, including lost revenues, should we experience any one or more of our or a third party's systems failing or experiencing attack.. The success of the Company is dependent upon its ability to recruit and retain qualified employees especially seasoned relationship bankers.. The Company's business plan includes and is dependent upon hiring and retaining highly qualified and motivated executives and employees at every level. In particular, our relative success to date has been partly the result of our management's ability to identify and retain highly qualified relationship bankers that have long-standing relationships in their communities. These professionals bring with them valuable customer relationships and have been integral in our ability to attract deposits and to expand our market share. From time to time, the Company recruits or utilizes the services of employees who are subject to limitations on their ability to use confidential information of a prior employer, to freely compete with that employer, or to solicit customers of that employer. If the Company is unable to hire or retain qualified employees it may not be able to successfully execute its business strategy. If the Company or its employee is found to have violated any nonsolicitation or other restrictions applicable to it or its employees, the Company or its employee could become subject to litigation or other proceedings.. We may be required to raise capital in the future, but that capital may not be available or may not be on acceptable terms when it is needed.. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate capital levels to support operations. Our ability to raise additional capital is dependent on capital market conditions at that time and on our financial performance and outlook. Regulatory changes, such as regulations to implement Basel III and the Dodd-Frank Act, may require us to have more capital than was previously required. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, we may not be able to meet these requirements, and our ability to further expand our operations through organic growth or through acquisitions may be adversely affected."
