[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risk factors below represent what we believe are the known material risk factors with respect to the Company and our business. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, our operations, the industry in which we operate, our financial position or our future financial results.. Our business depends on the availability of a large number of highly qualified IT professionals, sales and management personnel, and our ability to recruit and retain these individuals.. We actively compete with many other IT service providers for qualified personnel, including professional IT staff, recruiters, sales people, and management. The availability of qualified personnel may affect our future ability to provide services and meet the requirements of our clients. An inability to fulfill client requirements at agreed upon rates due to a lack of available qualified personnel may adversely impact our revenue and operating results in the future.. Increased competition and the bargaining power of our large clients may cause our billing rates to decline, which would have an adverse effect on our revenue and, if we are unable to control our personnel costs accordingly, on our margins and operating results.. We have experienced reductions in the rates we bill some of our larger clients for services due to highly competitive market conditions. Additionally, we actively compete against many other companies for business at both new and existing clients. Billing rate reductions or competitive pressures may lead to a further decline in revenue. When faced with such pressures, if we are unable to make commensurate reductions in our personnel costs, our margins and operating results would be adversely affected.. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from two clients, and a significant reduction in the amount of requirements requested by these clients would have an adverse effect on our revenue and operating results.. IBM and SDI are CTG's two largest clients. CTG provides services to various IBM divisions in a number of locations. SDI acts as a vendor manager for Lenovo, and all of the Company's revenue generated through SDI relates to CTG employees working at various divisions of Lenovo. During the 2017 third quarter, the National Technical Services Agreement (NTS Agreement) with IBM was extended for two years and now expires on December 31, 2019. In 2017, 2016, and 2015, IBM accounted for $76.4 million or 25.4%, $98.4 million or 30.3%, and $99.2 million or 26.9% of the Company's consolidated revenue, respectively. SDI accounted for $34.2 million or 11.4%, $34.5 million or 10.6%, and $44.0 million or 11.9% of the Company's consolidated revenue, respectively, during these periods. The Company's accounts receivable from IBM at December 31, 2017 and 2016 totaled $21.5 million and $28.0 million, respectively, and accounts receivable from SDI totaled $4.7 million and $5.6 million, respectively.. During the 2016 third quarter, the Company was informed by IBM that there would be significant reductions in both requirements and billable rates for certain of the employees provided to this client beginning in the 2016 fourth quarter. Originally, these employee reductions could have totaled as much as 40% of the revenue earned from IBM.  However, CTG was able to negotiate to retain a number of these requirements, although many of the retained employees were subject to reductions in billable rates. If IBM or Lenovo were to significantly reduce their requirements for the Company's services in future periods, our revenue and operating results would be adversely affected.. Our client contracts generally have a short term or are terminable on short notice, and a significant number of failures to renew contracts in place, or early terminations or renegotiations of our existing client contracts could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our clients typically retain us on a non-exclusive, engagement-by-engagement basis, rather than under exclusive long-term contracts. We performed 85.9% of our services on a time-and-materials basis during 2017. As such, our clients generally have the right to terminate a contract with us upon written notice without the payment of any financial penalty. Client projects may involve multiple engagements or stages, and there is a risk that a client may choose not to retain us for additional stages of a project, or that a client will cancel or delay additional planned engagements. These terminations, cancellations or delays could result from factors that are beyond our control and are unrelated to our work product or the progress of the project, but could be related to business or financial conditions of the client, changes in client strategies or the economy in general. When contracts are terminated, we lose the anticipated future revenue and we may not be able to eliminate the associated costs required to support those contracts in a timely manner. Consequently, our operating results in subsequent periods may be lower than expected. Our clients can cancel or reduce the scope of their. 6. engagements with us on short notice. If they do so, we may be unable to reassign our professionals to new engagements without delay. The cancellation or reduction in scope of an engagement could, therefore, reduce the utilization rate of our professionals, which would have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. As a result of these and other factors, our past financial performance should not be relied on as a guarantee of similar or improved future performance. Due to these factors, we believe that our results from operations in the future may fluctuate from period to period.. The introduction of new IT services or changes in client requirements for IT services may render our existing IT Solutions or IT Staffing offerings obsolete or unnecessary, which, if we are unable to keep pace with these corresponding changes, could have an adverse effect on our business.. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to implement and deliver IT Solutions or IT and other staffing services that anticipate and keep pace with rapid and continuing changes in technology, industry standards and client preferences and requirements. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to these developments on a timely basis, and our offerings may not be successful in the marketplace. Also, services, solutions and technologies developed by our competitors may make our solutions or staffing offerings uncompetitive or obsolete. Any one of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain and successfully complete client engagements.. We could be subject to liability and damage to our reputation resulting from cyber attacks or data breaches.. Cyber risks for companies providing information technology (IT) and professional services, especially in healthcare-related and financial services industries, continue to increase. This increase in risk may be attributed to the value of intellectual property, the value of personal information or data used for identity theft and fraud, the increasing sophistication of attacks, the variety of threat actors and their motives such as organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists, insider threats, foreign governments, and third parties, and the reliance on electronic communications, mobile technologies, cloud-based resources, smart devices, and emerging technologies. The Company's operations, business, and its customers rely on the secure processing, transmission, storage and availability of information, services, and resources provided by its IT environments. The Company's complex IT environments support a variety of technologies, industries, services, delivery teams, and clients globally.. Although the Company has not experienced any prior material data breaches or cyber security incidents, its environments may be impacted by cyber attacks or cyber security incidents caused via the aforementioned threat actors or the Company's personnel. These cyber security incidents could result in information loss, result in the disruption of the Company's internal and client-facing operations and services, adversely affect its adherence with regulatory requirements, or result in a data breach. Information losses and data breaches could include the unauthorized disclosure, misuse, loss, and destruction of both the Company's and its clients' intellectual property, financial information, or other regulated or privacy-related information, including but not limited to United States-designated personally identifiable information (PII), personal data under the European General Data Protection Directive (GDPR), and protected health information (PHI) under the United States Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA).. The Company's failure to protect sensitive data and reasonably address the requirements of regulated data under its control could result in reputational damage, fines and penalties, litigation costs, external investigations, compensation costs including reimbursement and monetary awards, and/or additional compliance costs which could have a material, adverse impact on the Company's operations. It could also have an adverse impact on the Company's ability to maintain and execute new contracts with clients that produce or work with similar data, and make it more difficult to retain and recruit qualified personnel to perform its services in the future. As the cyber threat landscape continues to evolve or the Company's cyber risk profile changes, it may be required to expend additional resources to implement new or enhance existing risk mitigation strategies.. The foreign currency exchange, legislative, tax, regulatory and economic risks associated with international operations could have an adverse effect on our operating results if we are unable to mitigate or hedge these risks.. We have operations in the United States and Canada in North America, in Belgium, Luxembourg, and the United Kingdom in Europe, and in India. Although our foreign operations conduct their business in their local currencies, these operations are subject to their own currency fluctuations, legislation, employment and tax law changes, and economic climates. These factors as they relate to our foreign operations are different than those of the United States. Although we actively manage these foreign operations with local management teams, our overall operating results may be negatively affected by local economic conditions, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, or tax, regulatory or other economic changes beyond our control.. 7. Government cuts in healthcare programs, such as Medicare, and delays in legislative or regulatory healthcare mandates could cause a reduction in IT spending by our healthcare clients, which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and results of operations.. The Company's growth efforts have previously been primarily focused in the healthcare market. Growth in this market depends on continued spending by our healthcare clients on IT projects. Cuts in government healthcare programs, such as sequestration, which cut Medicare reimbursements to hospitals and health systems beginning in April 2013, may result in reduced expenditures by our healthcare clients on IT projects. If additional government cuts in healthcare programs were to occur, whether due to the failure of Congress to adopt a budget, pass appropriations bills or raise the U.S. debt ceiling or for other reasons, there may be delays, reductions or cessation of funding to our clients, which could cause our clients to purchase less IT services from us, which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and results of operations.. In addition, delays in implementation of legislative or regulatory healthcare mandates could adversely affect the IT spending by our healthcare clients to implement such mandates. If the implementation of existing or contemplated legislative or regulatory healthcare mandates are deferred, the resulting reduction in IT spending by our healthcare clients could materially and adversely affect our revenue and results of operations.. Changes in government regulations and laws affecting the IT services industry, and the industries in which our clients operate, including accounting principles and interpretations, and the taxation of domestic operations could adversely affect our results of operations.. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA), and new SEC regulations, create uncertainty for companies such as ours. These new or updated laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations which, in many instances, is due to their lack of specificity. As a result, the application of these new standards and regulations in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, tax regulations and other standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In particular, our continuing efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our independent auditors' audit of internal control require the commitment of significant internal, financial and managerial resources.. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the SEC, and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) or other accounting rule making authorities have issued and may continue to issue new accounting rules or auditing standards that are different than those that we presently apply to our financial results. Such new accounting rules or auditing standards could require significant changes from the way we currently report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles have been the subject of frequent changes in interpretations. As a result of the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the review of accounting policies by the SEC as well as by national and international accounting standards bodies, the frequency of future accounting policy changes may accelerate. Such future changes in financial accounting standards may have a significant effect on our reported results of operations, including results of transactions entered into before the effective date of the changes.. We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our provisions for income and other taxes and our tax liabilities in the future could be adversely affected by numerous factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, income before taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in various federal, state and international tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof, which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods. Due to the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the Company recorded an additional $1.7 million of tax expense upon enactment. There could be additional estimates related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act that could adversely affect our future financial position.. 8. Existing and potential clients may outsource or consider outsourcing their IT requirements to foreign countries in which we may not currently have operations, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain new clients or retain existing clients.. In recent years, more companies have started using, or are considering using, low-cost offshore outsourcing centers to perform technology-related work and complete projects. Currently, we have partnered with clients to perform services outside of North America to mitigate and reduce this risk to our Company. However, the risk of additional outsourcing of IT solutions overseas to countries where we do not have operations could have a material, negative impact on our future operations.. Decreases in demand for IT Solutions and IT and Other Staffing services in the future would cause an adverse effect on our revenue and operating results.. The Company's revenue and operating results are significantly affected by changes in demand for its services. In the past, when the world economy deteriorated, such as in 2008, there was a significant decline in demand for the Company's services which negatively affected the Company's revenue and operating results as compared with prior years. Declines in demand for the requirement for our IT services in 2018 or future years would adversely affect our operating results as it has in the past.. The IT services industry is highly competitive and fragmented, which means that our clients have a number of choices for providers of IT services and we may not be able to compete effectively.. The market for our services is highly competitive. The market is fragmented, and no company holds a dominant position. Consequently, our competition for client requirements and experienced personnel varies significantly by geographic area and by the type of service provided. Some of our competitors are larger and have greater technical, financial, and marketing resources and greater name recognition than we have in the markets we collectively serve. In addition, clients may elect to increase their internal IT systems resources to satisfy their custom software development and integration needs. Finally, our industry is being impacted by the growing use of lower-cost offshore delivery capabilities (primarily India and other parts of Asia). There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete successfully with existing or future competitors or that future competition will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. If we are unable to collect our receivables or unbilled services, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected.. Our business depends on our ability to successfully obtain payment from our clients of the amounts they owe us for work performed. We evaluate the financial condition of our clients and typically bill and collect on reasonable cycles. We might, however, not accurately assess the creditworthiness of our clients, or macroeconomic conditions could also result in financial difficulties for our clients, including bankruptcy and insolvency. In certain industries, some clients have requested longer payment terms, which has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our cash flows. The timely collection of client balances also depends on our ability to complete our contractual commitments as required. If we are unable to meet our commitments or bill our clients on a timely basis, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. We have established allowances for losses of receivables and unbilled services where we deem the amounts to be uncollectible. The uncollectible amounts due to the Company from clients could differ from those that we currently anticipate.. Our share price could fluctuate and be difficult to predict.. Our share price has fluctuated in the past and could continue to fluctuate in the future in response to various factors, both external and internal. These factors include:. •  changes in macroeconomic or political factors unrelated to our business in the geographies in which we operate;. •  general or industry-specific market conditions or changes in financial markets;. •  our failure to meet our growth or financial objectives (including revenue, operating margins, and earnings per share targets);. •  our ability to generate cash flow to return cash to our shareholders at historical levels or levels expected by our shareholders;. 9. •  announcements by us or competitors about developments in our business or prospects; and. •  projections or speculation about our business by the media or investment analysts.. If we repatriate our cash balances from our foreign operations, we may be subject to additional tax liabilities.. We earn a portion of our operating income outside of the United States, and any repatriation or deemed repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions to the United States may result in additional tax liabilities for the Company. In addition, there have been changes to the tax laws in the United States that significantly impact how United States-based multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. Any further changes in these tax laws could have a material adverse impact on our tax expense and cash flows.. Ineffective internal controls could impact the Company's business and operating results.. The Company's internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of the inherent limitations of internal controls, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, poorly designed or ineffective controls, or fraud. Internal controls that are deemed to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of the Company's financial statements. If the Company fails to maintain the adequacy of its internal controls, including the failure to implement new or improve existing controls, or fails to properly execute or properly test these controls, the Company's business and operating results could be negatively impacted and the Company could fail to meet its financial reporting obligations.. Changing economic conditions and the effect of such changes on accounting estimates could have a material impact on our results of operations.. The Company has also made a number of estimates and assumptions relating to the reporting of its assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities to prepare its consolidated financial statements pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC and other accounting rulemaking authorities. Such estimates primarily relate to the valuation of stock options for recording equity-based compensation expense, allowances for doubtful accounts receivable, investment valuation, discount rates associated with pension plans, incurred but not recorded claims related to the Company's self-insured medical plan, valuation allowances for deferred tax assets, legal matters, other contingencies and estimates of progress toward completion and direct profit or loss on contracts, as applicable. As future events and their effects cannot be determined with precision, actual results could differ from these estimates. Changes in the economic climates in which the Company operates may affect these estimates and will be reflected in the Company's financial statements in the event they occur. Such changes could result in a material impact on the Company's results of operations.. Risks to the Company from acquisitions include integration challenges, disruptions of the Company's core business, a failure to achieve objectives, and the assumption of liabilities.. The Company regularly evaluates acquisitions to aid the Company's growth in revenue and profits by expanding the services the Company offers in the geographies in which the Company operates, and its client base. On February 15, 2018, the Company acquired 100% of the equity of Soft Company. Soft Company, located in Paris, France, is an IT consulting company that specializes in providing IT services to finance, insurance, telecom, and media services companies. Acquisitions often present significant challenges and risks relating to the integration of the business into the Company, and there can be no assurances that the Company will manage future acquisitions successfully, that the Company's core business will not be significantly disrupted after an acquisition is finalized, or that strategic acquisition opportunities will be available to the Company on acceptable terms. The risks from an acquisition include the Company failing to achieve strategic objectives and anticipated revenue and profit improvements, borrowing a significant amount of money to fund the acquisitions which creates financial stress for the Company's operations, as well as failing to retain the key personnel of the acquired business. Finally, the assumption of liabilities related to litigation or other legal proceedings involving the acquired business may present a significant risk.. We may require additional capital to support our business, and this capital may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all.. On December 21, 2017, the Company entered into a credit and security agreement, which provides for a three-year revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $45.0 million, including a sublimit of $10.0 million for letters of credit and a $10.0 million sublimit for swing line loans. At December 31, 2017, we had $4.4 million of borrowings. 10. outstanding under our revolving credit line. We may be dependent on our revolving credit facility to meet working capital and operational requirements, and access to our facility is dependent on, among other things, compliance with applicable covenants, including fixed charge coverage ratio, consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) targets, and a limit on annual expenditures for property, plant, equipment, and capitalized software. The fixed charge coverage ratio is only tested if availability on a measurement date is below a threshold. The amount available for borrowing under the credit facility could be significantly reduced due to poor operational performance, or other factors. Any loss or material reduction of our ability to access funds under the credit facility could materially and negatively impact our liquidity.. Actions of activist stockholders could cause us to incur substantial costs, divert management's and the board's attention and resources, and have an adverse effect on our business and stock price.. From time to time, we may be subject to proposals by stockholders urging us to take certain corporate actions. If activist stockholder activities ensue, our business could be adversely affected as responding to proxy contests and reacting to other actions by activist stockholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our operations, and divert the attention of management and our board of directors, all of which could interfere with our ability to execute our strategic plan. We may be required to retain the services of various professionals to advise us on activist stockholder matters, including legal, financial and communications advisors, the costs of which may negatively impact our future financial results. In addition, the perceived uncertainties as to our future direction, strategy or leadership created as a consequence of activist stockholder initiatives may result in the loss of potential business opportunities, harm our ability to attract new investors, customers, and employees, and cause our stock price to experience periods of volatility or stagnation."
