[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to Our Lines of Business. Our business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Prospective investors should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face but are risks we believe may be material at this time. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described below occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations and the trading price of our securities could decline. Investors and prospective investors should consider the following risks, the information contained under the heading \"Warning Concerning Forward Looking Statements\" and the risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report before deciding whether to invest in our securities.. During fiscal year 2017, in conjunction with our transformation of our business platform model from for-sale homebuilding to commercial development, asset management and real estate services, we identified deficiencies that in the aggregate constituted a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting. If we are unable to develop, implement and maintain effective internal controls in future periods, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired and investors' views of us could be harmed.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and SEC rules require that management report annually on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures. Among other things, management must conduct an assessment of internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes- Oxley Act. Based on management's assessment, we concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting were not effective as of December 31, 2017. The specific material weakness and remediation measures are described in Item 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim consolidated financial statements would not be prevented or detected. As with any material weakness, if our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weakness, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements. Any material misstatements could result in a restatement of our consolidated financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price.. We are currently in the process of remediating the identified material weakness in our internal controls and will commit our best efforts to completing our remediation measures on a timely basis. As we continue to evaluate and work to improve our internal control over financial reporting, we may determine to take additional measures to address material weakness or determine to modify certain of the remediation measures. Remediation of the material weakness will likely include additional costs, including the hiring of new personnel with sufficient and tailored skill sets. If we were to fail to remediate this material weakness, there would continue to be an increased risk that our future financial statements could contain errors that will be undetected. Future determinations that there are material weaknesses in the effectiveness of our internal controls could negatively impact our ability to obtain financing or could increase the cost of any financing we obtain and require additional expenditures of resources to comply with applicable requirements. The ongoing existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, which could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, lead to a loss of investor confidence and have a negative impact on the trading price of our common stock.. Risks Relating to Our Management Fee For Services Business. Going forward, substantially all of our revenues are derived from our provision of management services to a limited number of companies. The loss or failure, or decline in business or assets could substantially reduce our revenues.. We anticipate that the fees we earn from providing asset management services to our client under the AMA will comprise substantially all our revenue in the near term. Therefore, our revenues depend in large part on the ability of our largest clients to invest in real estate assets or their other respective businesses and on the positive performance of the investments or businesses of our largest clients. Our clients' investments and businesses are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Therefore, our operating results and our ability to maintain and grow our revenues depends upon the ability of our clients to maintain and grow their respective businesses. Reduced business activities by, or failure of, any of the clients or certain of the projects or the termination of their management agreements, particularly with respect to the AMA, would materially reduce our revenues and our profitability.. The AMA and other agreements with clients are subject to termination, and any such termination could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The AMA and our other consulting agreements with our clients may be terminated by a client or by us in certain circumstances. Depending upon the circumstances of a termination, we may or may not be entitled to receive a termination fee. If any of our management or consulting agreements with a client is terminated, we may be unable to replace the lost revenue. Even if we receive a termination fee upon the termination of a management agreement with a client, we would likely be unable to invest the proceeds of the termination fee we receive to replace the lost revenues. The termination of our management agreement or consulting agreement with any of our largest clients could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The commercial real estate industry has been and may continue to be adversely affected by economic conditions in the United States generally.. Our business and operations are significantly dependent on conditions in the commercial real estate industry, which in turn is impacted by general economic conditions in the United States. Commercial real estate markets in the United States were significantly negatively impacted during the recent recession. Although commercial real estate markets have improved, with valuations approaching, and in some cases exceeding, 2007 levels, new challenges have arisen, including uncertain U.S. Federal Reserve policy regarding the timing and amount of future increases in interest rates and increasing real estate development activities. Adverse conditions in the commercial real estate industry and declining real estate values could harm our business and financial condition by limiting our and our Client Companies' access to debt and equity capital and our and their ability to grow our and their businesses. Adverse conditions may also give rise to an increase in defaults of the Company's loans and other investments. An economic slowdown or recession or declining real estate values could materially and adversely affect us and our clients.. The asset management business is highly competitive.. Our business is highly competitive and our success will be determined by a variety of factors, including, without limitation, the following:. <U+0095>   other asset managers may have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources and more personnel than our clients and we do;. <U+0095>   our clients may not perform as well as other companies, including companies managed by other asset managers;. <U+0095>   other asset managers and the companies that compete with our clients may have access to more capital or access to capital at lower costs than our clients and we do;. <U+0095>   other asset managers and the companies that compete with our clients may have higher risk tolerance, different risk assessment or a lower return threshold, which could allow them to acquire a wider variety of assets and a broader range of investments than our clients and as a result we and our clients may grow our business less and more slowly than those competitors;. <U+0095>   there are few barriers to entry into the asset management business, and new entrants will result in increased competition;. <U+0095>   other asset managers may have more scalable platforms and may operate more efficiently than we do;. <U+0095>   other asset managers may have better brand recognition than we have; and. <U+0095>   our competitors may from time to time recruit our employees away from us.. If we fail to compete effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely impacted.. We are subject to substantial regulation and numerous contractual obligations and internal policies, and failure to comply with these provisions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to substantial regulation and numerous contractual obligations and internal policies. We are subject to regulation by the SEC, The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC, or Nasdaq, and other federal, state and local governmental bodies and agencies or self-regulatory organizations. We are also responsible for managing or assisting with the regulatory aspects of certain of our clients. The level of regulation and supervision to which we and our clients are subject varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and is based on the type of business activity involved. Our or our clients' failure to comply with any of the regulations, contractual obligations or policies may subject us to extensive investigations, as well as substantial penalties and reputational risk, and our business and operations could be materially adversely affected.. Our lack of compliance with applicable law could result in, among other things, our inability to enforce contracts, our default under contracts (including our management agreements or advisory agreements with our clients) and our ineligibility to contract with, and receive revenue from, governmental authorities and agencies, our clients or other third parties. We have numerous contractual obligations with which we must comply on a continuous basis to operate our business, the default of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We have established internal policies designed to ensure that we manage our business in accordance with applicable law and regulation and in accordance with our contractual obligations. These internal policies may not be effective in all regards; and, if we fail to comply with our internal policies, we could be subjected to additional risk and liability.. Employee misconduct could harm us by subjecting us to significant legal liability, reputational harm and loss of business.. There is a risk that our employees could engage in misconduct that adversely affects our business. We are subject to a number of obligations and standards arising from our business and our authority over the companies and assets we manage. The violation of these obligations and standards by any of our employees may adversely affect our clients and us. Our business often requires that we deal with confidential matters of great significance to our clients. If our employees improperly use or disclose confidential information, we and the concerned client could suffer serious harm to our and its reputation, financial position and current and future business relationships and face potentially significant litigation. It is not always possible to detect or deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. If any of our employees were to engage in or be accused of misconduct, our business and our reputation could be adversely affected. Misconduct by an employee might rise to the level of a default that would permit a client to terminate its management agreements or advisory agreements with us for cause and without paying a termination fee, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Risks Relating to Our Homebuilding Business. Our operations historically required significant capital and our continuing operations during the transition to commercial real estate depends on the continuing availability of acquisition, construction, and development loans which may not to be available at the time it is needed or at favorable terms.. The real estate development industry is capital intensive and requires significant expenditures for operations, land purchases, land development and construction as well as potential acquisitions of other homebuilders or developers. In order to maintain our operations, we will need to obtain additional financing. These funds can be generated through public or private debt or equity financings, operating cash flow, additional bank borrowings or from strategic alliances or joint ventures. We may not be successful in obtaining additional funds in a timely manner, on favorable terms or at all. We have historically utilized construction, acquisition and development loans to finance our projects. These credit facilities tend to be project-oriented and generally have variable rates and require significant management time to administer. Further, these types of financings are typically characterized by short-term loans, which are subject to call. The availability of borrowed funds, especially for land acquisition and construction financing, has been greatly reduced, and lenders may require us to invest increased amounts of equity in a project in connection with both new loans and the extension of existing loans. In addition, we may need to further refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity, which we may not be able to do on favorable terms or at all. Furthermore, if financial institutions discontinue providing these facilities to us, we would lose our primary source of financing for our operations or the cost of retaining or replacing these credit facilities could increase dramatically. If we do not have access to additional capital or funds to continue to transition our operations, we may be required to delay, scale back or abandon some or all of our operating strategies for an orderly transition of our homebuilding operations and rely more heavily on a liquidation strategy for our lot inventory that would likely cause us to experience a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Home prices and sales activities in the Washington, D.C. market have a large impact on our results of operations because we primarily conduct our business in this market.. We currently develop and sell homes primarily in the Washington, D.C. market; consequently, home prices and sales activities in the Washington, D.C. geographic market have a large impact on our results of operations. Although demand in this area historically has been strong, the historical slowdowns in residential real estate demand and continued constraints on obtaining consumer mortgage financing continue to reduce the likelihood of consumers seeking to purchase new homes. As a result of the specific market and general economic conditions, potential customers may be less willing or able to buy our homes, or we may take longer or incur more costs to build them. We may not be able to recapture increased costs by raising prices in many cases because of market conditions or because we fix our prices in advance of delivery by signing home sales contracts. We may be unable to change the mix of our homes or our offerings or the affordability of our homes to maintain our margins or satisfactorily address changing market conditions in other ways. Our limited geographic diversity means that adverse general economic, weather or other conditions in this geographic market could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows or our ability to grow our business.. 9. Table of Contents. Fluctuations in market conditions and our transition out of homebuilding may affect our ability to sell our land and home inventories at expected prices, or at all, which could adversely affect our revenues, earnings and cash flows.. We could be subject to significant fluctuations in the market value of our land and home inventories. The risk of owning undeveloped land, developed land and homes can be substantial. The market value of undeveloped land, buildable lots and housing inventories can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing economic and market conditions. Inventory carrying costs can be significant and can result in losses in a poorly performing development or market. Material write-downs of the estimated value of our land and home inventories could occur if market conditions deteriorate or if we purchased land or build home inventories at higher prices during stronger economic periods and the value of those land or home inventories subsequently declines during weaker economic periods. We could also be forced to sell homes, land or lots for prices that generate lower profit than we anticipated, or at a loss, and may not be able to dispose of an investment in a timely manner when we find dispositions advantageous or necessary. Furthermore, a continued decline in the market value of our land or home inventories or our transition out of homebuilding may give rise to additional impairments of our inventory and write-offs of contract deposits and feasibility cost, which may result in a breach of financial covenants contained in one or more of our credit facilities, and possibly cause a default under those credit facilities. Defaults in these credit facilities are often times the responsibility of Comstock, as Comstock is the guarantor of most of its subsidiaries debts.. During 2017 and 2016, we evaluated all of our projects, to the extent of the existence of any impairment indicators requiring evaluation to determine if carrying amounts were recoverable by evaluating discount rates, sales prices, absorption and our analysis of the best approach to marketing our projects for sale.. During 2017 and 2016, as a result of our impairment analysis, the Company wrote off $0.5 million and $2.4 million, respectively, in feasibility, site securing, predevelopment, design, carry costs and related costs for certain of our communities in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area due to unsuccessful negotiations and changes in market conditions. Additionally, during 2016, the Company, through its subsidiaries, and the land seller of a community in the Washington, D.C. area entered into a settlement agreement, and the Company received a refund of $0.7 million representing a portion of the deposit deemed impaired during the Company's impairment analysis in 2015.. Our business is subject to governmental regulations that may delay, increase the cost of, prohibit or severely restrict our development and homebuilding projects and reduce our revenues and cash flows.. We are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that affect the land development and homebuilding processes, including laws and regulations related to zoning, permitted land uses, levels of density (number of dwelling units per acre), building design, access to water and other utilities, water and waste disposal and use of open spaces. In addition, we and our subcontractors are subject to laws and regulations relating to worker health and safety. We are also subject to a variety of local, state and federal laws and regulations concerning the protection of health and the environment. In some of our markets, we are required to pay environmental impact fees, use energy saving construction materials and give commitments to provide certain infrastructure such as roads and sewage systems. We are also subject to real estate taxes and other local government fees on real estate purchases. We must also obtain permits and approvals from local authorities to complete residential development or home construction. The laws and regulations under which we and our subcontractors operate, and our and their obligations to comply with them, may result in delays in construction and development, cause us to incur substantial compliance and other increased costs, and prohibit or severely restrict development and homebuilding activity in certain areas in which we operate. If we are unable to continue to develop communities and build and deliver homes as a result of these restrictions or if our compliance costs increase substantially, our revenues, earnings and cash flows may be reduced.. Cities and counties in which we operate have adopted, or may adopt, slow or no-growth initiatives that would reduce our ability to build and sell homes in these areas and could adversely affect our revenues, earnings and cash flows.. From time to time, certain cities and counties in which we operate have approved, and others in which we operate may approve, various \"slow-growth\" or \"no-growth\" initiatives and other similar ballot measures. Such initiatives restrict development within localities by, for example, limiting the number of building permits available in a given year. Approval of slow- or no-growth measures could reduce our ability to obtain building permits and build and sell homes in the affected markets and could create additional costs and administration requirements, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our revenues, earnings and cash flows. Increased regulation in the housing industry increases the time required to obtain the necessary approvals to begin construction and has prolonged the time between the initial acquisition of land or land options and the commencement and completion of construction. These delays increase our costs, decrease our profitability and increase the risks associated with the land inventories we maintain.. Municipalities may restrict or place moratoriums on the availability of utilities, such as water and sewer taps. If municipalities in which we operate take actions like these, it could have an adverse effect on our business by causing delays, increasing our costs or limiting our ability to build in those municipalities. This, in turn, could reduce the number of homes we sell and decrease our revenues, earnings and cash flows.. 10. Table of Contents. Our ability to sell homes and, accordingly, our results of operations, will be affected by the availability of mortgage financing to potential home buyers.. Most home buyers finance their purchase of new homes through third-party mortgage financing. As a result, residential real estate demand is adversely affected by increases in interest rates and decreases in the availability of consumer mortgage financing. Increased monthly mortgage costs and the continued constraints on obtaining financing for potential home buyers have depressed the market for new homes. For instance, regulations which tighten underwriting standards have made mortgage financing more difficult to obtain for some of our entry-level home buyers, which has led to decreased demand from these buyers. Even if potential home buyers do not experience difficulty securing mortgage financing for their purchases of new homes, increases in interest rates and decreased mortgage availability or significant alterations to mortgage product types could make it harder for them to sell their existing homes. This could continue to adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. Limitations on, or reduction or elimination of, tax benefits associated with owning a home could have an adverse effect on the demand for our home products.. Existing tax laws generally permit significant expenses associated with owning a home, to be deducted for the purpose of calculating an individual's federal, and in many cases, state, taxable income, primarily including mortgage interest expenses and real estate taxes. New tax laws and regulations have recently been enacted that limit mortgage interest deductions. These regulations may increase the after-tax cost of owning a home, increasing the costs for many of our potential customers and may have an adverse effect on the homebuilding industry in general, as the loss or reduction of homeowner tax deductions could decrease the demand for new homes.. The competitive conditions in the homebuilding industry could increase our costs, reduce our revenues and earnings and otherwise adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive and fragmented. We compete with a number of national, regional and local builders for customers, raw materials and labor. For example, in the Washington, D.C. market, we compete against multiple publicly-traded national home builders, and many privately-owned regional and local home builders. We do not compete against all of the builders in all of our product types or submarkets, as some builders focus on particular types of projects within those markets, such as large estate homes, that are not in competition with our projects.. We compete primarily on the basis of price, location, design, quality, service and reputation. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources, more established market positions and better opportunities for land and home site acquisitions, greater amounts of unrestricted cash resources on hand, and lower costs of capital, labor and material than us. The competitive conditions in the homebuilding industry and our announcement to transition out of homebuilding could, among other things:. <U+0095>   require us to increase selling commissions and other incentives, which could reduce our profit margins;. <U+0095>   result in delays in construction if we experience delays in procuring materials or hiring trades people or laborers;. <U+0095>   result in lower sales volume and revenues; and. <U+0095>   increase our costs and reduce our earnings.. Our homes also compete with sales of existing homes and condominiums, foreclosure sales of existing homes and condominiums and available rental housing. A continued oversupply of competitively priced resale, foreclosure or rental homes in our markets could adversely affect our ability to sell homes profitably.. Increases in our cancellation rate could have a negative impact on our home sales revenue and homebuilding margins.. The cancellation rate of buyers who contracted to buy a home from us but did not close escrow (as a percentage of overall orders) was approximately 16% and 7% during the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Home order cancellations negatively impact the number of closed homes, net new home orders, home sales revenue and results of operations, as well as the number of homes in backlog. Home order cancellations can result from a number of factors, including declines or slow appreciation in the market value of homes, increases in the supply of homes available to be purchased, increased competition, higher mortgage interest rates, homebuyers' inability to sell their existing homes, homebuyers' inability to obtain suitable financing, including providing sufficient down payments, and adverse changes in economic conditions including unemployment. Upon a home order cancellation, the homebuyer's escrow deposit is returned to the homebuyer (other than certain miscellaneous deposits, which we retain). An increase in the level of our home order cancellations could have a negative impact on our business, prospects, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.. 11. Table of Contents. If we are not able to develop our communities successfully, our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely impacted.. Before a community generates any revenues, material expenditures are required to acquire land, to obtain development approvals and to construct significant portions of project infrastructure, amenities, model homes and sales facilities. It can take a year or more for a community development to achieve cumulative positive cash flow. Our inability to develop and market our communities successfully and to generate positive cash flows from these operations in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our ability to service our debt and to meet our working capital requirements.. If we experience shortages of labor or supplies or other circumstances beyond our control, there could be delays or increased costs associated with developing our projects, which would adversely affect our operating results and cash flows.. We, from time to time, may be affected by circumstances beyond our control, including:. <U+0095>   work stoppages, labor disputes and shortages of qualified trades people, such as carpenters, roofers, electricians and plumbers;. <U+0095>   lack of availability of adequate utility infrastructure and services;. <U+0095>   increases in transportation costs for delivery of materials;. <U+0095>   our need to rely on local subcontractors who may not be adequately capitalized or insured; and. <U+0095>   shortages or fluctuations in prices of building materials.. These difficulties have caused and likely will cause unexpected construction delays and short-term increases in construction costs. In an attempt to protect the margins on our projects, we often purchase certain building materials with commitments that lock in the prices of these materials for 90 to 120 days or more. However, once the supply of building materials subject to these commitments is exhausted, we are again subject to market fluctuations and shortages. We may not be able to recover unexpected increases in construction or materials costs by raising our home prices because, typically, the price of each home is established at the time a customer executes a home sale contract. Furthermore, sustained increases in construction and material costs may, over time, erode our profit margins and may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.. We continue to depend on the availability and skill of subcontractors and their willingness to work with us as we transition out of our homebuilding operations.. Substantially all of our land development and construction work is done by subcontractors with us acting as the general contractor or by subcontractors working for a general contractor we select for a particular project. Accordingly, the timing and quality of our land development and construction depends on the availability, skill, and willingness of those subcontractors to work with us as we transition out of our homebuilding business. We do not have long-term. 12. Table of Contents. contractual commitments with subcontractors or suppliers. Although we believe that our relationships with our suppliers and subcontractors are good, we cannot assure that skilled subcontractors will continue to be available at reasonable rates and in the areas in which we conduct our operations. The inability to contract with skilled subcontractors or general contractors at reasonable costs on a timely basis could limit our ability to build and deliver homes and could erode our profit margins and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.. Construction defect and product liability litigation and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business may be costly or negatively impact sales, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.. Our homebuilding business is subject to construction defect and product liability claims arising in the ordinary course of business. These claims are common in the homebuilding industry and can be costly. Among the claims for which developers and builders have financial exposure are property damage, environmental claims and bodily injury claims and latent defects that may not materialize for an extended period of time. Damages awarded under these suits may include the costs of remediation, loss of property and health-related bodily injury. In response to increased litigation, insurance underwriters have attempted to limit their risk by excluding coverage for certain claims associated with environmental conditions, pollution and product and workmanship defects. As a developer and a home builder, we may be at risk of loss for mold-related property, bodily injury and other claims in amounts that exceed available limits on our comprehensive general liability policies and those of our subcontractors. In addition, the costs of insuring against construction defect and product liability claims are high and the amount of coverage offered by insurance companies is limited. Uninsured construction defect, product liability and similar claims, claims in excess of the limits under our insurance policies, defense costs and the costs of obtaining insurance to cover such claims could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, earnings and cash flows.. Increased insurance risk could negatively affect our business, results of operations and cash flows.. Insurance and surety companies frequently reassess many aspects of their business and, as a result, may take actions that could negatively affect our business. These actions could include increasing insurance premiums, requiring higher self-insured retentions and deductibles, requiring additional collateral on surety bonds, reducing limits, restricting coverage's, imposing exclusions, and refusing to underwrite certain risks and classes of business. Any of these actions may adversely affect our ability to obtain appropriate insurance coverage at reasonable costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, coverage for certain types of claims, such as claims relating to mold, is generally unavailable. Further, we rely on surety bonds, typically provided by insurance companies, as a means of limiting the amount of capital utilized in connection with the public improvement sureties that we are required to post with governmental authorities in connection with land development and construction activities. The cost of obtaining these surety bonds is, from time to time, unpredictable and these surety bonds may be unavailable to us for new projects. These factors can delay or prohibit commencement of development projects and adversely affect revenue, earnings and cash flows.. We are subject to warranty claims arising in the ordinary course of business that could be costly.. We provide service warranties on our homes for a period of one year or more following closing and provide warranties on occasion as required by applicable statutes for extended periods. We self-insure our warranties from time to time and reserve an amount we believe will be sufficient to satisfy any warranty claims on homes we sell and periodically purchase insurance related coverage to cover the costs associated with potential claims. Additionally, we attempt to pass much of the risk associated with potential defects in materials and workmanship on to the subcontractors performing the work and the suppliers and manufacturers of the materials and their insurance carriers. In such cases, we still may incur unanticipated costs if a subcontractor, supplier, manufacturer or its insurance carrier fails to honor its obligations regarding the work or materials it supplies to our projects. If the amount of actual claims materially exceeds our aggregate warranty reserves, any available insurance coverage and/or the amounts we can recover from our subcontractors and suppliers, our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition may be adversely affected.. 13. Table of Contents. We are subject to certain environmental laws and the cost of compliance could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows.. As a current or previous owner or operator of real property, we may be liable under federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in the properties or in the proximity of the properties we develop. These laws often impose liability whether or not we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The cost of investigating, remediating or removing such hazardous or toxic substances may be substantial. The presence of any such substance, or the failure to promptly remediate any such substance, may adversely affect our ability to sell the property, to use the property for our intended purpose, or to borrow funds using the property as collateral. In addition, the construction process involves the use of hazardous and toxic materials. We could be held liable under environmental laws for the costs of removal or remediation of such materials. In addition, our existing credit facilities also restrict our access to the loan proceeds if the properties that are used to collateralize the loans are contaminated by hazardous substances and require us to indemnify the bank against losses resulting from such occurrence for significant periods of time, even after the loan is fully repaid.. If we are unable to continue to access credit on acceptable terms, our business may be adversely affected.. The changing nature of the global credit markets could make it more difficult for us to access funds, refinance our existing indebtedness, enter into agreements for uncommitted bond facilities and new indebtedness, replace our existing revolving and term credit agreements or obtain funding through the issuance of our securities. We use credit facilities to support our working capital and acquisition needs. There is no guarantee that we can continue to renew our credit facility on terms as favorable as those in our existing credit facility and, if we are unable to do so, our costs of borrowing and our business may be adversely affected.. Our ability to use our Net Operating Losses (\"NOLs\") and, in certain circumstances, future built-in losses and depreciation deductions can be negatively affected if there is an \"ownership change\" as defined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code.. We currently have approximately $144 million in federal and state NOLs with a potential value of up to approximately $37 million in tax savings. These deferred tax assets are currently fully reserved. If unused, these NOLs will begin expiring in 2027. Under Internal Revenue Code Section 382 rules, if a change of ownership is triggered, our NOL asset and possibly certain other deferred tax assets may be impaired. We estimate that as of December 31, 2017, the cumulative shift in the Company's stock would not cause an inability to utilize any of our NOLs.. The Company's ability to use its NOLs (and in certain circumstances, future built-in losses and depreciation deductions) can be negatively affected if there is an \"ownership change\" as defined under Internal Revenue Code Section 382. In general, an ownership change occurs whenever there is a shift in ownership by more than 50 percentage points by one or more 5% stockholders over a specified time period (generally three years). Given Internal Revenue Code Section 382's broad definition, an ownership change could be the unintended consequence of otherwise normal market trading in the Company's stock that is outside of the Company's control. In an effort to preserve the availability of these NOLs, in 2011, Comstock adopted an Internal Revenue Code Section 382 rights agreement, which expired in May 2014. In June 2015, the Company's stockholder's approved a new Section 382 rights agreement (the \"Rights Agreement\") to protect stockholder value. The Rights Agreement expires on March 27, 2025. The Rights Agreement was adopted to reduce the likelihood of such an unintended \"ownership change\", thus preserving the value of these tax benefits.. An impairment charge of goodwill could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Because we have grown in part through acquisitions, goodwill and intangible assets-net represent a substantial portion of our assets. Under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP), we are required to test goodwill carried in our Consolidated Balance Sheets for possible impairment on an annual basis based upon a fair value approach and whenever events occur that indicate impairment could exist. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, including a significant sustained decline in a reporting unit's market value, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale or disposition of a significant portion of our business, a significant sustained decline in our market capitalization and other factors.. 14. Table of Contents. In addition, if we experience a decrease in our stock price and market capitalization over a sustained period, we would have to record an impairment charge in the future. The amount of any impairment could be significant and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations for the period in which the charge is taken.. We are dependent on the services of certain key employees, and the loss of their services could harm our business.. Our success largely depends on the continuing services of certain key employees, including Christopher Clemente, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Christopher Conover, our Chief Financial Officer; and Jubal Thompson, our General Counsel and Secretary. Our continued success also depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. We believe that Messrs. Clemente, Conover and Thompson each possess valuable industry and Company knowledge, experience and leadership abilities that would be difficult in the short term to replicate. The loss of these or other key employees could harm our operations, business plans and cash flows.. Our operating results, including revenue, earnings, and losses, have varied over time due to a number of conditions. If we are unable to successfully manage these conditions or factors, our operating results may continue to vary and may also suffer.. The homebuilding industry is cyclical and we expect to experience variability in our revenues and net income. The volume of sales contracts and closings typically varies from month to month and from quarter to quarter depending on several factors, including the stages of development of our projects, the uncertain timing and cost of real estate closings, weather and other factors beyond our control. In the early stages of a project's development, we incur significant start-up costs associated with, among other things, project design, land acquisition and development, construction and marketing expenses. Since revenues from sales of properties are generally recognized only upon the transfer of title at the closing of a sale, no revenue is recognized during the early stages of a project unless land parcels or residential home sites are sold to other developers. Periodic sales of properties may be insufficient to fund operating expenses. Further, if sales and other revenues are not adequate to cover operating expenses, we will be required to seek sources of additional operating funds. Accordingly, our financial results will vary from community to community and from time to time.. We do not own the Comstock brand or trademark, but use the brand and trademark pursuant to the terms of a perpetual license granted by Christopher Clemente, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board.. Our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, Christopher Clemente, has licensed his ownership interest in the \"Comstock\" brand and trademark to us in perpetuity and free of charge. We routinely take steps, and occasionally take legal action, to protect it against infringement from third parties. Mr. Clemente has retained the right to continue to use the \"Comstock\" brand and trademark individually and through his affiliates, with respect to real estate development projects in our current or future markets that are unrelated to the Company but excluding products developed as new homes for sale. We will be unable to control the quality of projects undertaken by Mr. Clemente or others using the \"Comstock\" brand and trademark and therefore will be unable to prevent any damage to its goodwill that may occur. Consequently, our brand's reputation could be damaged which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and cash flows.. Information technology failures or data security breaches could harm our business.. We use information technology and other computer resources to perform important operational and marketing activities and to maintain our business records. Certain of these resources are provided to us and/or maintained by data hosting facilities and third party service providers to assist in conducting our day to day operations. Our computer systems and those of our third-party providers are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunication failures, computer viruses, hackers, unauthorized accesses, IT security breaches, natural disasters, usage errors by our employees or contractors, etc. Although we have implemented administrative and technical controls to address, mitigate and minimize these IT security issues, a significant and extended disruption of or breach of security related to our computer systems and third party service providers may damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers, sales and revenue, result in the unintended misappropriation of proprietary, personal and confidential information and require us to incur significant expense to remediate or otherwise resolve these issues.. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be affected by adverse weather conditions or natural disasters.. Adverse weather conditions, such as extended periods of rain, snow or cold temperatures, and natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods and fires, can delay completion and sale of real estate, damage partially complete or other construction in our inventory and/or decrease the demand for real estate or increase the cost of building projects. To the extent that natural disasters or adverse weather events occur, our business and results may be adversely affected. To the extent our insurance is not adequate to cover business interruption losses or repair costs resulting from these events, our results of operations and financial conditions may be adversely affected.. 15. Table of Contents. Acts of war or terrorism may seriously harm our business.. Acts of war, any outbreak or escalation of hostilities between the United States and any foreign power or acts of terrorism may cause disruption to the entire U.S. economy, or the Washington, D.C. metro area, cause shortages of building materials, increase costs associated with obtaining building materials, result in building code changes that could increase costs of construction, affect job growth and consumer confidence, or cause economic changes that we cannot anticipate, all of which could reduce demand for our homes and adversely impact our revenues, earnings and cash flows.. Risks Related to our Common Stock and Level of Indebtedness. Our level of indebtedness may harm our financial condition and results of operations.. Our consolidated indebtedness as of December 31, 2017 is approximately $39.4 million, net of discounts and deferred financing charges, and matures at different periods in fiscal years 2018 through 2022. We are in active discussions with our lenders with respect to these maturities and are seeking extensions and modifications to the credit facilities and loans as necessary. If, for any reason, we are unable to refinance, extend or modify the existing indebtedness, these projects may be in default of their existing obligations, which may result in a foreclosure on the project collateral and loss of the project. Any such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our level of indebtedness could impact our future operations in many important ways, including, without limitation, by:. <U+0095>   Requiring a portion of our cash flows from operations to be dedicated to the payment of any interest or amortization required with respect to outstanding indebtedness;. <U+0095>   Increasing our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive pressure; and. <U+0095>   Limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures, general corporate and other purposes.. At the scheduled maturity of our credit facilities or in the event of an acceleration of a debt facility following an event of default, the entire outstanding principal amount of the indebtedness under such facility, together with all other amounts payable thereunder from time to time, will become due and payable. It is possible that we may not have sufficient funds to pay such obligations in full at maturity or upon such acceleration. If we default and are not able to pay any such obligations due, our lenders have liens on substantially all of our assets and could foreclose on our assets in order to satisfy our obligations.. Our sources of liquidity are limited and may not be sufficient to meet our needs.. We are largely dependent on private placements of debt and equity (which rely heavily on insider participation) to cover our operating expenses and/or fund our liquidity needs. If we are unable to secure capital from private placements, we may be forced to reduce our capital expenditures, delay investments, seek other forms of financing or restructure our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful or may not be on desirable terms that could have an adverse impact on our operations.. Our stock price has been volatile and we expect that it will continue to be volatile.. Our stock price has been volatile, and we expect it will continue to be volatile. During the year ended December 31, 2017, the closing price of our common stock ranged from a high of $2.42 to a low of $1.25. The volatility of our stock price may also be due to many factors including:. <U+0095>   quarterly variations in our operating results;. <U+0095>   general conditions in the homebuilding industry;. <U+0095>   interest rate changes;. <U+0095>   changes in the market's expectations about our operating results;. <U+0095>   our operating results failing to meet the expectation of securities analysts or investors in a particular period;. <U+0095>   changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts concerning our Company or of the homebuilding industry in general;. <U+0095>   operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us;. <U+0095>   news reports relating to trends in our markets;. <U+0095>   changes in laws and regulations affecting our business;. 16. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   material announcements by us or our competitors;. <U+0095>   material announcements by our construction lenders or the manufacturers and suppliers we use;. <U+0095>   sales of substantial amounts of Class A common stock by our directors, executive officers or significant stockholders or the perception that such sales could occur; and. <U+0095>   general economic and political conditions such as recessions and acts of war or terrorism.. Investors in our Class A common stock may not be able to resell their shares of Class A common stock following periods of volatility because of the market's adverse reaction to the volatility of the stock price. Our Class A common stock may not trade at the same levels as the stock of other homebuilders, and the market in general may not sustain its current prices.. We may not be able to maintain compliance with The NASDAQ Capital Market's continued listing requirements.. Our Class A common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market. In order to maintain the listing of our Class A common stock on The NASDAQ Capital Market, we must meet minimum financial, operating and other requirements, including requirements for a minimum amount of capital, a minimum price per share and active operations. We may fail to satisfy certain of these listing requirements. In the past, we have at times not met the minimum trading price and stockholders' equity amount required for continued listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market. We have taken steps to remedy these deficiencies, including by completing a reverse stock split to increase our trading price. However, if we fail to satisfy these or other continued listing requirements, we would be required to take steps to satisfy the applicable continued listing requirement or suffer delisting from The NASDAQ Capital Market. A delisting of our Class A common stock could adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock, our ability to obtain financing and our ability to fund our operations.. Investors in our Class A common stock may experience dilution with the future issuance of stock, exercise of stock options and warrants, the grant of restricted stock and issuance of stock in connection with our capital raising transactions and acquisitions of other companies.. From time to time, we have issued and we will continue to issue stock options or restricted stock grants to employees and non-employee directors pursuant to our equity incentive plan. We expect that these options or restricted stock grants will generally vest commencing one year from the date of grant and continue vesting over a four-year period. Investors may experience dilution as the options vest and are exercised by their holders and the restrictions lapse on the restricted stock grants. In addition, we may issue stock to raise capital to fund our growth initiatives, in connection with acquisitions of other companies, or warrants in connection with the settlement of obligations and or indebtedness with vendors and suppliers, which may result in investors experiencing dilution.. Substantial sales of our Class A common stock, or the perception that such sales might occur, could depress the market price of our Class A common stock.. A substantial amount of the shares of our Class A common stock are eligible for immediate resale in the public market. Any sales of substantial amounts of our Class A common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, could depress the market price of our Class A common stock.. The holders of our Class B common stock exert control over us and thus limit the ability of other stockholders to influence corporate matters.. As of December 31, 2017, Mr. Christopher Clemente, our Chief Executive Officer, owned 100% of our outstanding Class B common stock, which, together with his shares of Class A common stock, represent approximately 60% of the combined voting power of all classes of our voting stock. As a result, Mr. Clemente has control over the election of our board of directors and our management and policies. Mr. Clemente, also has control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the amendment of certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, the approval of any equity-based employee compensation plans and the approval of significant corporate transactions, including mergers or acquisition transactions. In light of this control, other companies could be discouraged from initiating a potential merger, takeover or any other transaction resulting in a change of control. Such a transaction potentially could be beneficial to our business or to our stockholders. This may in turn reduce the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our Class A common stock.. 17. Table of Contents. The limited voting rights of our Class A common stock could limit its attractiveness to investors and its liquidity and, as a result, its market value.. The holders of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock generally have identical rights, except that holders of our Class A common stock are entitled to one vote per share and holders of our Class B common stock are entitled to 15 votes per share on all matters to be voted on by stockholders. The difference in the voting rights of the Class A common stock and Class B common stock could diminish the value of the Class A common stock to the extent that investors or any potential future purchasers of our Class A common stock ascribe value to the superior voting rights of the Class B common stock.. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, which could inhibit stockholders from realizing a premium on their stock price.. We are subject to the Delaware anti-takeover laws regulating corporate takeovers. These anti-takeover laws prevent Delaware corporations from engaging in business combinations with any stockholder, including all affiliates and employees of a stockholder, who owns 15% or more of the corporation's outstanding voting stock, for three years following the date that the stockholder acquired 15% or more of the corporation's voting stock unless specified conditions are met.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control that stockholders could consider favorable or beneficial. These provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions include:. <U+0095>   a staggered board of directors, so that it would take three successive annual meetings to replace all directors;. <U+0095>   a prohibition of stockholders taking action by written consent; and. <U+0095>   advance notice requirements for the submission by stockholders of nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting.. Our issuance of shares of preferred stock could delay or prevent a change of control of us.. Our board of directors has the authority to cause us to issue, without any further vote or action by the stockholders, up to 20,000,000 shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, in one or more series, to designate the number of shares constituting any series, and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions thereof, including dividend rights, voting rights, rights and terms of redemption, redemption price or prices and liquidation preferences of such series. The issuance of shares of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us without further action by the stockholders, even where stockholders are offered a premium for their shares. The issuance of shares of preferred stock with voting and conversion rights may adversely affect the voting power of the holders of Class A common stock, including the loss of voting control. Any issuance of this type of preferred stock could impact the perception of potential future purchasers of our Class A common stock and could depress its market price.. During the period ended December 31, 2015, the Company authorized 3,000,000 shares of a new series of preferred stock designated as Series B Non-Convertible Preferred Stock (the \"Series B Preferred Stock\"). The shares of Series B Preferred Stock have a par value of $0.01 per share and a stated value of $5.00 per share. The Series B Preferred Stock has no conversion rights or voting rights other than required by applicable law. The Series B Preferred Stock earn dividends at a rate of 8.75% per annum. The dividends will accrue whether or not declared. The dividends are also cumulative and payable quarterly in arrears at the last day of each quarterly reporting period in the form of additional Series B Preferred Stock or in the sole discretion of the board of directors, in cash. On December 29, 2015, the Company issued 772,210 shares of Series B Preferred Stock in exchange for the conversion of an outstanding promissory note. On March 24, 2017, the Company and our Chief Executive Officer entered into a series of transactions which converted the Series B Preferred Stock to a newly created Series C Preferred Stock. Refer to Note 15 and Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of these transactions."
