[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, including our financial statements and the related notes and \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" before making a decision to purchase or sell shares of our common stock. We cannot assure you that any of the events discussed in the risk factors below will not occur. These risks could have a material and adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects. If that were to happen, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations or financial condition.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. Our business is dependent on the success of a single product candidate, emricasan, which will require significant additional clinical testing before we can seek regulatory approval and potentially launch commercial sales.. Our future success depends on our ability to obtain regulatory approval for, and then successfully commercialize, our only product candidate, emricasan. We have not completed the development of any product candidates. We currently generate no revenues from sales of any drugs, and we may never be able to develop a marketable drug. Emricasan will require additional clinical and non-clinical development, regulatory review and approval in multiple jurisdictions, substantial investment, access to sufficient commercial manufacturing capacity and significant marketing efforts before we can generate any revenues from product sales. We entered into an Option, Collaboration and License Agreement, or the Collaboration Agreement, with Novartis Pharma AG, or Novartis, pursuant to which we granted Novartis an exclusive license to collaborate with us to develop products containing emricasan either as a single active ingredient or in combination with other Novartis compounds for liver cirrhosis or liver fibrosis.  Novartis is responsible for Phase 3 development of emricasan single agent products and all development for emricasan combination products as well as the manufacturing and commercialization for all emricasan products. Neither we, nor Novartis, are permitted to market or promote emricasan before emricasan receives regulatory approval from the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, or comparable foreign regulatory authorities, and emricasan may never receive such regulatory approvals.. Our registration strategy is to develop emricasan for patients with fibrosis or cirrhosis due to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, or NASH. Our four ongoing trials are a Phase 2b clinical trial in patients with NASH cirrhosis and severe portal hypertension, a Phase 2b clinical trial in patients with decompensated NASH cirrhosis, a Phase 2b clinical trial in patients with NASH fibrosis, and a Phase 2b clinical trial in post-orthotopic liver transplant, or POLT, recipients with reestablished liver fibrosis post-transplant as a result of recurrent hepatitis C virus, or HCV, infection who have successfully achieved a sustained viral response, or SVR, following HCV antiviral therapy, or POLT-HCV-SVR, patients with residual fibrosis or cirrhosis.. 27. There is no guarantee that our current or future clinical trials will be completed on time or at all or that any future clinical trials will commence on time or at all, and the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may disagree with the design or implementation of our clinical trials. Even if such regulatory authorities agree with the design and implementation of our clinical trials, we cannot guarantee you that such regulatory authorities will not change their requirements in the future. In addition, even if our clinical trials are successfully completed, we cannot guarantee that the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities will interpret the results as we do, and more trials would likely be required before we submit emricasan for approval. To the extent that the results of the clinical trials are not satisfactory to the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities for support of a marketing application, approval of emricasan may be significantly delayed, or we may be required to expend significant additional resources, which may not be available to us, to conduct additional trials in support of potential approval of emricasan.. We cannot anticipate when or if we will seek regulatory review of emricasan for any indication. We have not previously submitted a new drug application, or NDA, to the FDA, or similar drug approval filings to comparable foreign authorities. An NDA must include extensive preclinical and clinical data and supporting information to establish the product candidate's safety and effectiveness for each desired indication. The NDA must also include significant information regarding the chemistry, manufacturing and controls for the product. Obtaining approval of an NDA is a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process and may not be obtained. We have not received marketing approval for any product candidate, and we cannot be certain that emricasan will be successful in future clinical trials or receive regulatory approval for any indication. If we do not receive regulatory approvals for and successfully commercialize emricasan on a timely basis or at all, we may not be able to continue our operations. Even if we successfully obtain regulatory approvals to market emricasan, our revenues will be dependent, in part, on Novartis' ability to commercialize emricasan as well as the size of the markets in the territories for which we gain regulatory approval and have commercial rights. If the markets for the treatment of liver cirrhosis, including NASH cirrhosis, NASH fibrosis or POLT-HCV-SVR are not as significant as we estimate, our business and prospects will be harmed.. Emricasan was the subject of a clinical hold imposed by the FDA while under development by Pfizer Inc. due to a preclinical observation. Although the clinical hold has been lifted, any adverse side effects or other safety risks associated with emricasan could delay or preclude approval of the product candidate, cause us to suspend or discontinue our clinical trials or limit the commercial profile of emricasan.. When we acquired emricasan from Pfizer in 2010, emricasan was on clinical hold in the United States due to an observation of inflammatory infiltrates in mice that Pfizer saw in a preclinical study and reported to the FDA in 2007. Pfizer performed additional preclinical studies attempting to characterize the nature of the inflammatory infiltrates, but did not carry out a formal carcinogenicity study to evaluate whether or not the infiltrates progressed to cancer. These infiltrates observed in mice were not observed in any other species. In 2008, Pfizer stopped work on the program. After acquiring emricasan, we conducted a thorough internal review of these studies, commissioned several independent experts to review the data and, based on guidance from the FDA, conducted a 6-month carcinogenicity study in the Tg.rasH2 transgenic mouse model, which is known to be predisposed toward tumor development. This study was completed in 2012. There was no evidence of drug-related tumorgenicity in our carcinogenicity study, and after further discussions with the FDA, we were cleared in January 2013 to proceed with our previously planned HCV-POLT clinical trial, formally lifting emricasan from clinical hold in the United States. Emricasan was never placed on clinical hold outside the United States. We cannot assure you that emricasan will not be placed on clinical hold in the future for similar or unrelated reasons.. In addition, undesirable side effects caused by emricasan could result in the delay, suspension or termination of our clinical trials by us, the FDA or other regulatory authorities or institutional review boards, or IRBs, for a number of reasons. To date, over 650 subjects have received emricasan in Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials. The most commonly reported treatment-related adverse events in emricasan-treated subjects were dizziness, headache, fatigue, nausea and diarrhea. Although most of the adverse events reported in relation to emricasan in these trials were mild to moderate, results of our ongoing and future trials could reveal a high and unacceptable severity and prevalence of these or other side effects, including, potentially, more severe side effects. In such an event, our trials could be suspended or terminated, and the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities could order us to cease further development of, or deny approval of, emricasan for any or all targeted indications. In addition, the drug-related side effects could affect patient recruitment or the ability of enrolled patients to complete the clinical trial or result in potential product liability claims. Even if regulatory authorities granted approval of emricasan, if adverse events caused regulatory authorities to impose a restrictive label or if physicians' perceptions of emricasan's safety caused them to limit their use of the drug, our ability to generate sufficient sales of emricasan could be limited. Any of these occurrences may harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations significantly.. Clinical drug development involves uncertain outcomes, and results of earlier studies and trials may not be predictive of future trial results.. Clinical testing is expensive and can take many years to complete, and its outcome is inherently uncertain. Failure can occur at any time during the clinical trial process. For example, in late 2011 we ceased clinical development of a product candidate, CTS-1027, for which we had incurred $31.3 million in research and development expenses prior to such time. The results of preclinical studies. 28. and early clinical trials of emricasan may not be predictive of the results of later-stage clinical trials. Product candidates in later stages of clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy traits despite having progressed through preclinical studies and initial clinical trials. A number of companies in the biopharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials due to lack of efficacy or safety profiles, notwithstanding promising results in earlier trials.. Emricasan has been the subject of eight competed Phase 1 and eight competed Phase 2 clinical trials. Although we believe emricasan has demonstrated evidence of a beneficial effect in patients with chronic liver disease independent of the cause of disease in these clinical trials, we are now seeking to evaluate emricasan in targeted indications within liver disease, initially NASH cirrhosis and NASH fibrosis, and we have not previously evaluated the safety and efficacy of emricasan in these and other planned indications. Previously, the development program for emricasan focused primarily on the treatment of HCV patients and the evaluation of the product candidate in liver disease generally. We cannot be certain that any of our ongoing and planned clinical trials will be successful, and failure in one indication may have negative consequences for the development of emricasan for other indications. Any such failure may harm our business, prospects and financial condition.. The FDA regulatory approval process is lengthy and time-consuming, and if we experience significant delays in the clinical development and regulatory approval of emricasan, our business will be substantially harmed.. We may experience delays in commencing and completing clinical trials of emricasan. For example, based on data in 2013 regarding a new HCV antiviral being developed by another company, we chose to delay and change our previously planned Phase 2b/3 HCV-POLT clinical trial to a Phase 2b POLT-HCV-SVR clinical trial. We may also experience delays in commencing and completing other clinical trials of emricasan. We do not know whether planned clinical trials will begin on time, need to be redesigned, enroll patients on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. Any of our ongoing and planned clinical trials may be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays related to:. •  the availability of financial resources for us to commence and complete our planned clinical trials;. •  reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations, or CROs, and clinical trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and clinical trial sites;. •  obtaining IRB approval at each clinical trial site;. •  obtaining regulatory approval for clinical trials in each country;. •  recruiting suitable patients to participate in clinical trials;. •  having patients complete a clinical trial or return for post-treatment follow-up;. •  clinical trial sites deviating from trial protocol or dropping out of a trial;. •  adding new clinical trial sites;. •  developing one or more new formulations or routes of administration; or. •  manufacturing sufficient quantities of our product candidate for use in clinical trials.. Patient enrollment, a significant factor in the timing of clinical trials, is affected by many factors including the size and nature of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial, the design of the clinical trial, competing clinical trials and clinicians' and patients' perceptions as to the potential advantages of the product candidate being studied in relation to other available therapies, including any new drugs that may be approved for the indications we are investigating. In addition, significant numbers of patients who enroll in our clinical trials may drop out during the clinical trials as a result of being offered a liver transplant in the case of liver cirrhosis or portal hypertension patients, a potential curative therapy or other reasons. We believe we have appropriately accounted for such increased risk of dropout rates in our trials when determining expected clinical trial timelines in our ongoing clinical trials, but we cannot assure you that our assumptions are correct, or that we will not experience higher numbers of dropouts than anticipated, which would result in the delay of completion of such trials beyond our expected timelines. For example, our previous Phase 2b ACLF clinical trial experienced lower than expected enrollment rates, and we elected to complete the trial prior to reaching the initial targeted number of patients.. We could encounter delays if physicians encounter unresolved ethical issues associated with enrolling patients in clinical trials of emricasan in lieu of prescribing existing treatments that have established safety and efficacy profiles. Further, a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us, the IRBs in the institutions in which such trials are being conducted, the data monitoring committee for such trial, or by the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols, inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial site by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold, unforeseen safety issues or adverse side effects, failure to. 29. demonstrate a benefit from using a product candidate, changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions or lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. If we experience termination of, or delays in the completion of, any clinical trial of emricasan, the commercial prospects for emricasan will be harmed, and our ability to generate product revenues will be delayed. In addition, any delays in completing our clinical trials will increase our costs, slow down our product development and approval process and jeopardize our ability to commence product sales and generate revenues. Any of these occurrences may harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations significantly. Furthermore, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of emricasan.. The clinical trials for emricasan involve a high degree of uncertainty and risk of failure, and some of our development activities involve indications with little or no previous product candidate development activities as well as patient populations with critical illnesses and potential challenges for enrollment and participation in clinical trials.. Our business involves the development of new drugs, which is a highly risky undertaking and involves a lengthy process and high degree of uncertainty. Some of our clinical trials for emricasan may involve indications and patient populations that have had little or no previous development activities by us or others in our industry.. In connection with clinical trials, we face risks that:. •  IRBs may delay approval of, or fail to approve, a clinical trial at a prospective site;. •  there may be a limited number of, and significant competition for, suitable patients for enrollment in the clinical trials;. •  there may be slower than expected rates of patient recruitment and enrollment;. •  patients may fail to complete the clinical trials;. •  there may be an inability or unwillingness of patients or medical investigators to follow our clinical trial protocols;. •  there may be an inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment;. •  there may be termination of the clinical trials by one or more clinical trial sites;. •  unforeseen ethical or safety issues may arise;. •  conditions of patients may deteriorate rapidly or unexpectedly, which may cause the patients to become ineligible for a clinical trial or may prevent emricasan from demonstrating efficacy or safety;. •  patients may die or suffer other adverse effects for reasons that may or may not be related to emricasan being tested;. •  we may not be able to sufficiently standardize certain of the tests and procedures that are part of our clinical trials because such tests and procedures are highly specialized and involve a high degree of expertise;. •  emricasan may not prove to be efficacious in all or some patient populations;. •  the results of the clinical trials may not confirm the results of earlier trials;. •  the results of the clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or other regulatory agencies; and. •  emricasan may not have a favorable risk/benefit assessment in the disease areas studied.. We cannot assure you that our ongoing clinical trials or any future clinical trial for emricasan will be started or completed on schedule, or at all. Any failure or significant delay in completing clinical trials for emricasan would harm the commercial prospects for emricasan and adversely affect our financial results. Difficulties and failures can occur at any stage of clinical development, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully complete the development and commercialization of emricasan in any indication.. 30. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval of emricasan, we will not be able to commercialize this product candidate and our business will be adversely impacted.. We have not obtained regulatory approval for any product candidate. If we fail to obtain regulatory approval to market emricasan, our only product candidate, we will be unable to sell emricasan, which will significantly impair our ability to generate revenues. To receive approval, we must, among other things, demonstrate with substantial evidence from clinical trials that the product candidate is both safe and effective for each indication for which approval is sought, and failure can occur in any stage of development. Satisfaction of the approval requirements typically takes several years, and the time and money needed to satisfy them may vary substantially, based on the type, complexity and novelty of the pharmaceutical product. We have not commenced any Phase 3 clinical trials of emricasan to date, and we cannot predict if, or when, our future clinical trials will generate the data necessary to support an NDA and if, or when, we might receive regulatory approvals for emricasan.. The FDA generally requires two confirmatory clinical trials for approval of an NDA. Under the FDA's Accelerated Approval Program, the FDA may grant \"accelerated approval\" to product candidates that have been studied for their safety and effectiveness in treating serious or life-threatening illnesses and that provide meaningful therapeutic benefit to patients over existing treatments. Accelerated approval provides a pathway for an investigational product to be approved on the basis of adequate and well-controlled clinical studies establishing that the product candidate has an effect on a surrogate endpoint that the FDA considers reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit, or on a clinical endpoint that can be measured earlier than irreversible morbidity or mortality, that is reasonably likely to predict an effect on irreversible morbidity or mortality or other clinical benefit, taking into account the severity, rarity, or prevalence of the condition and the availability or lack of alternative treatments.  The Accelerated Approval Program does not change the statutory requirements for marketing approval. In addition, as a condition of approval, the FDA may require that a sponsor of a drug receiving accelerated approval perform adequate and well-controlled post-marketing clinical studies. The FDA also generally requires pre-approval of promotional materials as a condition of accelerated approval.. We are using change in hepatic venous pressure gradient, or HVPG, as the primary endpoint in our ongoing Phase 2b ENCORE-PH trial in compensated or early decompensated NASH cirrhosis with severe portal hypertension. Decreasing HVPG has been identified by the FDA as a validated, objective measure that potentially could be acceptable as a surrogate endpoint for clinical trials of patients with liver cirrhosis. We do not know if the FDA will agree with the use of a surrogate endpoint for accelerated approval of emricasan for the treatment of liver cirrhosis. In the event emricasan does receive accelerated approval for the treatment of liver cirrhosis, we would be required to conduct one or more post-approval clinical outcomes trials to confirm the clinical benefit of emricasan.. Emricasan could fail to receive regulatory approval for many reasons, including the following:. •  the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may disagree with the design or implementation of our clinical trials;. •  we may be unable to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities that emricasan is safe and effective for any of its proposed indications;. •  the results of clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities for approval;. •  we may be unable to demonstrate that emricasan's clinical and other benefits outweigh its safety risks;. •  the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may disagree with our interpretation of data from preclinical studies or clinical trials;. •  the data collected from clinical trials of emricasan may not be sufficient to the satisfaction of the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities to support the submission of an NDA or other comparable submission in foreign jurisdictions or to obtain regulatory approval in the United States or elsewhere;. •  the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may fail to approve the manufacturing processes or facilities of third-party manufacturers with which we contract for clinical and commercial supplies; and. •  the approval policies or regulations of the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may significantly change in a manner rendering our clinical data insufficient for approval.. 31. This lengthy approval process as well as the unpredictability of future clinical trial results may result in our failure to obtain regulatory approval to market emricasan, which would significantly harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, even if we were to obtain approval, regulatory authorities may grant approval contingent on the performance of costly post-marketing clinical trials or the imposition of a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, or REMS, requiring substantial additional post-approval safety measures. Moreover, any approvals that we obtain may not cover all of the clinical indications for which we are seeking approval or could contain significant limitations in the form of narrow indications, warnings, precautions or contra-indications with respect to conditions of use. In such event, our ability to generate revenues would be greatly reduced and our business would be harmed.. Even if we obtain and maintain regulatory approval for emricasan in one jurisdiction, we may never obtain regulatory approval for emricasan in any other jurisdiction, which would limit our market opportunities and adversely affect our business.. Obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval for emricasan in one jurisdiction does not guarantee that we will be able to obtain or maintain regulatory approval in any other jurisdiction. For example, even if the FDA grants marketing approval for a product candidate, comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries must also approve the manufacturing, marketing and promotion of the product candidate in those countries. Approval procedures vary among jurisdictions and can involve requirements and administrative review periods different from, and greater than, those in the United States, including additional preclinical studies or clinical trials. In many countries outside the United States, a product candidate must be approved for reimbursement before it can be approved for sale in that country. In some cases, the price that we intend to charge for our products is also subject to approval. We expect to submit a marketing authorization application, or MAA, to the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, for approval of emricasan in the European Union, or the EU. As with the FDA, obtaining approval of an MAA from the EMA is a similarly lengthy and expensive process, and the EMA has its own procedures for approval of product candidates. Even if a product is approved, the FDA or the EMA, as the case may be, may limit the indications for which the product may be marketed, require extensive warnings on the product labeling, require a REMS or require expensive and time-consuming clinical trials or reporting as conditions of approval. Regulatory authorities in countries outside of the United States and the EU also have requirements for approval of product candidates with which we must comply prior to marketing in those countries. Obtaining foreign regulatory approvals and compliance with foreign regulatory requirements could result in significant delays, difficulties and costs for us and could delay or prevent the introduction of our products in certain countries. Further, clinical trials conducted in one country may not be accepted by regulatory authorities in other countries, and regulatory approval in one country does not ensure approval in any other country, while a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory approval process in others. Also, regulatory approval for any product candidate may be withdrawn. If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements in international markets and/or receive applicable marketing approvals, our target market will be reduced and our ability to realize the full market potential of emricasan will be harmed, which would adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. Even if we receive regulatory approval for emricasan, we will be subject to ongoing regulatory obligations and continued regulatory review, which may result in significant additional expense. Additionally, emricasan, if approved, could be subject to labeling and other restrictions and market withdrawal, and we may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements or experience unanticipated problems with emricasan.. Any regulatory approvals that we receive for emricasan may be subject to limitations on the approved indicated uses for which emricasan may be marketed or to the conditions of approval, or contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing testing, including Phase 4 clinical trials, and surveillance to monitor the safety and efficacy of the product candidate. The FDA may also require a REMS in order to approve emricasan, which could entail requirements for a medication guide, physician communication plans or additional elements to ensure safe use, such as restricted distribution methods, patient registries and other risk minimization tools. In addition, if the FDA or a comparable foreign regulatory authority approves emricasan, the manufacturing processes, labeling, packaging, distribution, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion, import, export and recordkeeping for emricasan will be subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. These requirements include submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, registration, as well as continued compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMPs, and good clinical practice regulations, or GCPs, for any clinical trials that we conduct post-approval. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with emricasan, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or with our third-party manufacturers or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in, among other things:. •  restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of emricasan, withdrawal of the product from the market, or voluntary or mandatory product recalls;. •  fines, warning letters or holds on clinical trials;. •  refusal by the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us or suspension or revocation of license approvals;. 32. •  product seizure or detention, or refusal to permit the import or export of emricasan; and. •  injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties.. The FDA's and other regulatory authorities' policies may change, and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent, limit or delay regulatory approval of emricasan. For example, in December 2016, the 21st Century Cures Act, or Cures Act, was signed into law.  The Cures Act, among other things, is intended to modernize the regulation of drugs and spur innovation, but its ultimate implementation is unclear. If we are slow or unable to adapt to changes in existing requirements or the adoption of new requirements or policies, or if we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may lose any marketing approval that we may have obtained, and we may not achieve or sustain profitability, which would adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. We also cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative or executive action, either in the United States or abroad.  For example, certain policies of the Trump administration may impact our business and industry.  Namely, the Trump administration has taken several executive actions, including the issuance of a number of executive orders, that could impose significant burdens on, or otherwise materially delay, the FDA's ability to engage in routine regulatory and oversight activities such as implementing statutes through rulemaking, issuance of guidance, and review and approval of marketing applications.  It is difficult to predict how these executive orders will be implemented and the extent to which they will impact the FDA's ability to exercise its regulatory authority. If these executive actions impose constraints on the FDA's ability to engage in oversight and implementation activities in the normal course, our business may be negatively impacted.. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for emricasan, the product may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, tertiary care centers, transplant centers and others in the medical community.. If emricasan is approved for commercialization, its acceptance will depend on a number of factors, including:. •  the clinical indications for which emricasan is approved;. •  physicians, major operators of tertiary care centers and transplant centers and patients considering emricasan as a safe and effective treatment;. •  the potential and perceived advantages of emricasan over alternative treatments;. •  the prevalence and severity of any side effects;. •  product labeling or product insert requirements of the FDA or other regulatory authorities;. •  the timing of market introduction of emricasan as well as competitive products;. •  the cost of treatment in relation to alternative treatments;. •  the availability of adequate reimbursement and pricing by third-party payors and government authorities;. •  relative convenience and ease of administration; and. •  the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts.. If emricasan is approved but fails to achieve market acceptance among physicians, patients or others in the medical community, we will not be able to generate significant revenues, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. Coverage and reimbursement may be limited or unavailable in certain market segments for emricasan, which could make it difficult for us to sell emricasan profitably.. Government authorities and third-party payors, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, decide which drugs they will cover and the amount of reimbursement. Reimbursement by a third-party payor may depend upon a number of factors, including the third-party payor's determination that use of a product is:. •  a covered benefit under its health plan;. •  safe, effective and medically necessary;. •  appropriate for the specific patient;. 33. •  cost-effective; and. •  neither experimental nor investigational.. Obtaining coverage and reimbursement approval for a product from a government or other third-party payor is a time-consuming and costly process that could require us to provide to the payor supporting scientific, clinical and cost-effectiveness data for the use of our products. We may not be able to provide data sufficient to gain acceptance with respect to coverage and reimbursement. If reimbursement of our future products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, we may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability.. We intend to seek approval to market emricasan in both the United States and in select foreign jurisdictions. If we obtain approval in one or more foreign jurisdictions for emricasan, we will be subject to rules and regulations in those jurisdictions. In some foreign countries, particularly those in the EU, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals and biologics is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after obtaining marketing approval for a product candidate. In addition, market acceptance and sales of emricasan will depend significantly on the availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors for emricasan and may be affected by existing and future health care reform measures.. In both the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes to the health care system that could impact our ability to sell our products profitably. In particular, in 2010, the Affordable Care Act, was enacted, which, among other things, increased the minimum Medicaid rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program and extended the rebate program to individuals enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations, established annual fees on manufacturers of certain branded prescription drugs, required manufacturers to participate in a discount program for certain outpatient drugs under Medicare Part D and promoted programs that increase the federal government's comparative effectiveness research, which will impact existing government healthcare programs and will result in the development of new programs. An expansion in the government's role in the United States healthcare industry may further lower rates of reimbursement for pharmaceutical products.. Since its enactment, there have been judicial and Congressional challenges to certain aspects of the Affordable Care Act. We expect that the current presidential administration and U.S. Congress will likely continue to seek to modify, repeal, or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the Affordable Care Act. Most recently, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was enacted, which, among other things, removes penalties for not complying with the Affordable Care Act's individual mandate to carry health insurance.  There is still uncertainty with respect to the impact President Trump's administration and the U.S. Congress may have, if any, and any changes will likely take time to unfold, and could have an impact on coverage and reimbursement for healthcare items and services covered by plans that were authorized by the Affordable Care Act.  However, we cannot predict the ultimate content, timing or effect of any healthcare reform legislation or the impact of potential legislation on us.. Other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted in the United States since the Affordable Care Act was enacted. On August 2, 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011, among other things, created measures for spending reductions by Congress. A Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, tasked with recommending a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, was unable to reach required goals, thereby triggering the legislation's automatic reduction to several government programs. This includes aggregate reductions of Medicare payments to providers of 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect in April 2013 and, due to subsequent legislative amendments to the statute, will remain in effect through 2025 unless additional Congressional action is taken. On January 2, 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which, among other things, further reduced Medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years.. 34. There have been, and likely will continue to be, legislative and regulatory proposals at the federal and state levels directed at broadening the availability of healthcare and containing or lowering the cost of healthcare. For instance, there have recently been public hearings in the U.S. Congress concerning pharmaceutical product pricing, which have resulted in several Congressional inquiries and proposed bills designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to product pricing, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, and reform government program reimbursement methodologies for pharmaceutical products. Individual states in the United States have also become increasingly active in passing legislation and implementing regulations designed to control pharmaceutical and biological product pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, discounts, restrictions on certain product access and marketing cost disclosure and transparency measures, and, in some cases, designed to encourage importation from other countries and bulk purchasing. We cannot predict the initiatives that may be adopted in the future. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of healthcare services to contain or reduce costs of healthcare and/or impose price controls may adversely affect:. •  the demand for emricasan, if we obtain regulatory approval;. •  our ability to set a price that we believe is fair for our products;. •  our ability to generate revenues and achieve or maintain profitability;. •  the level of taxes that we are required to pay; and. •  the availability of capital.. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare or other government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors, which may adversely affect our future profitability.. We currently have no marketing and sales organization and have no experience in marketing products. If our collaborator fails to market and sell emricasan and if we are unable to establish marketing and sales capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell emricasan, we may not be able to generate product revenues.. We currently do not have a commercial organization for the marketing, sales and distribution of pharmaceutical products. We entered into the Collaboration Agreement with Novartis for the development and commercialization of emricasan.  Under the Collaboration Agreement, Novartis is responsible for the commercialization of emricasan worldwide. If emricasan is approved, we will have limited control over the marketing and sales efforts of Novartis, and our revenues from product sales may be lower than if we had commercialized emricasan ourselves.. If the Collaboration Agreement with Novartis is terminated, we may need to build our marketing, sales, distribution, managerial and other non-technical capabilities to commercialize emricasan or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services. We expect that the majority of all liver cirrhosis and POLT-HCV-SVR patients will be treated at tertiary care centers and transplant centers, and therefore our marketing and sales efforts can be addressed with a targeted sales force. We may build our own commercial infrastructure in North America and the EU to target these centers. The establishment and development of our own sales force or the establishment of a contract sales force to market emricasan would be expensive and time-consuming and could delay any commercial launch. Moreover, we cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully develop this capability. We would have to compete with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to recruit, hire, train and retain marketing and sales personnel. We would also face competition in our search for third parties to assist us with the sales and marketing efforts of emricasan. We may also consider other opportunities to partner with a pharmaceutical company that has global capabilities to develop and commercialize.. To the extent we rely on Novartis or any other third parties to commercialize emricasan, if approved, we may have little or no control over the marketing and sales efforts of such third parties, and our revenues from product sales may be lower than if we had commercialized emricasan ourselves. In the event we are unable to develop our own marketing and sales force or collaborate with a third-party marketing and sales organization, we would not be able to commercialize emricasan.. A variety of risks associated with marketing emricasan internationally could materially adversely affect our business.. We plan to seek regulatory approval for emricasan outside of the United States and, accordingly, we expect that we will be subject to additional risks related to operating in foreign countries if we obtain the necessary approvals, including:. •  differing regulatory requirements in foreign countries;. •  the potential for so-called parallel importing, which occurs when a local seller, faced with high or higher local prices, opts to import goods from a foreign market (with low or lower prices) rather than buying them locally;. •  unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers, price and exchange controls and other regulatory requirements;. •  economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets;. 35. •  compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws for employees living or traveling abroad;. •  foreign taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes;. •  foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses and reduced revenues, and other obligations incident to doing business in another country;. •  difficulties staffing and managing foreign operations;. •  workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the United States;. •  potential liability under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 or comparable foreign regulations;. •  challenges enforcing our contractual and intellectual property rights, especially in those foreign countries that do not respect and protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States;. •  production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; and. •  business interruptions resulting from geo-political actions, including war and terrorism.. These and other risks associated with our international operations may materially adversely affect our ability to attain or maintain profitable operations.. If we fail to develop and commercialize any other product candidates, we may be unable to grow our business.. We plan to develop and commercialize product candidates in addition to emricasan, which is currently our only product candidate. In order to develop and commercialize any additional product candidates, we may be required to invest significant resources to acquire or in-license the rights to such product candidates or to conduct drug discovery activities. In addition, any other product candidates will require additional, time-consuming development efforts prior to commercial sale, including preclinical studies, extensive clinical trials and approval by the FDA and applicable foreign regulatory authorities. All product candidates are prone to the risks of failure that are inherent in pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that the product candidate will not be shown to be sufficiently safe and/or effective for approval by regulatory authorities. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to acquire, discover or develop any additional product candidates, or that any additional product candidates we may develop will be approved, manufactured or produced economically, successfully commercialized or widely accepted in the marketplace or be more effective than other commercially available alternatives. Research programs to identify new product candidates require substantial technical, financial and human resources whether or not we ultimately identify any candidates. If we are unable to develop or commercialize emricasan or any other product candidates, our business and prospects will suffer.. We cannot be certain that emricasan or any other product candidates that we develop will produce commercially viable drugs that safely and effectively treat liver or other diseases. Even if we are successful in completing preclinical and clinical development and receiving regulatory approval for one commercially viable drug for the treatment of one disease, we cannot be certain that we will also be able to develop and receive regulatory approval for other product candidates for the treatment of other forms of that disease or other diseases. If we fail to develop a pipeline of potential product candidates other than emricasan, we will not have any prospects for commercially viable drugs should our efforts to develop and commercialize emricasan be unsuccessful, and our business prospects would be harmed significantly.. We face significant competition from other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, and our operating results will suffer if we fail to compete effectively.. The biopharmaceutical industry is characterized by intense competition and rapid innovation. Although we believe that we hold a leading position in our understanding of caspase inhibition related to liver disease, our competitors may be able to develop other compounds or drugs that are able to achieve similar or better results. Our potential competitors include major multinational pharmaceutical companies, established biotechnology companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies and universities and other research institutions. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and other resources, such as larger research and development staff and experienced marketing and manufacturing organizations and well-established sales forces. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large, established companies. Mergers and acquisitions in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries may result in even more resources being concentrated in our competitors. Competition may increase further as a result of advances in the commercial applicability of technologies and greater availability of capital for investment in these industries. Our competitors may succeed in developing, acquiring or licensing on an exclusive basis drug products that are more effective or less costly than emricasan. We believe the key competitive factors that will affect the development and commercial success of our product candidates are efficacy, safety and tolerability profile, reliability, convenience of dosing, price and reimbursement.. 36. There are currently no therapeutic products approved for the treatment of NASH cirrhosis, POLT-HCV-SVR or NASH fibrosis. There are a number of marketed therapeutics used in each of these diseases to try to remove the underlying cause of the disease and prevent further liver injury. For example, if the liver damage is a result of hepatitis B virus or HCV infection, marketed antiviral medications may be used to treat the virus that led to liver damage. If the liver damage is a result of alcoholic hepatitis, marketed alcohol addiction drugs may be used. If the liver damage is a result of obesity, diet and exercise may be prescribed along with marketed therapeutics. If the liver damage is a result of NASH, currently marketed drugs may be used, although none of these are approved for NASH. In addition to the marketed drugs for those indications, there are drugs in development for each of these indications. Although these marketed therapies and those in development may be efficacious, all of them take time to show an effect, and as long as the underlying conditions persist there will continue to be damage to the liver. In NASH for example, drugs in development have differing mechanisms of action, and it is currently unknown whether any single product candidate will eliminate liver inflammation and halt liver disease progression into advanced fibrosis. For each of these indications, emricasan is the only therapeutic we are aware of that is being developed specifically to reduce the level of apoptosis in the liver, and as a result it may be used with these other therapies. Our estimates of disease prevalence consider the presence of these other treatments. In addition, the HCV landscape has dramatically changed in recent years and will continue to evolve in the future with the introduction of interferon-free regimens with greater efficacy and tolerability over the current antiviral therapies.. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for emricasan, the availability and price of our competitors' products could limit the demand and the price we are able to charge for emricasan. We will not achieve our business plan if the acceptance of emricasan is inhibited by price competition or the reluctance of physicians to switch from existing methods of treatment to emricasan, or if physicians switch to other new drug products or choose to reserve emricasan for use in limited circumstances. Our inability to compete with existing or subsequently introduced drug products would have a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. Established pharmaceutical companies may invest heavily to accelerate discovery and development of novel compounds or to in-license novel compounds that could make emricasan less competitive. In addition, any new product that competes with an approved product must demonstrate compelling advantages in efficacy, convenience, tolerability and safety in order to overcome price competition and to be commercially successful. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining patent protection, receiving FDA approval or discovering, developing and commercializing medicines before we do, which would have a material adverse impact on our business.. We may not be able to obtain orphan drug exclusivity for emricasan or IDN-7314 for any indication.. In the United States, under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan designation to a drug or biological product intended to treat a rare disease or condition. Such diseases and conditions are those that affect fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States, or if they affect more than 200,000 individuals in the United States, there is no reasonable expectation that the cost of developing and making a drug product available in the United States for these types of diseases or conditions will be recovered from sales of the product. Orphan Drug Designation must be requested before submitting an NDA. If the FDA grants Orphan Drug Designation, the identity of the therapeutic agent and its potential orphan use are disclosed publicly by that agency. Orphan Drug Designation does not convey any advantage in or shorten the duration of the regulatory review and approval process, but it can lead to financial incentives, such as opportunities for grant funding toward clinical trial costs, tax advantages and user-fee waivers.. If a drug that has orphan designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval for the disease or condition for which it has such designation, the drug is entitled to orphan drug marketing exclusivity for a period of seven years. Orphan drug marketing exclusivity generally prevents the FDA from approving another application, including a full NDA, to market the same drug or biological product for the same indication for seven years, except in limited circumstances, including if the FDA concludes that the later drug is safer, more effective or makes a major contribution to patient care. For purposes of small molecule drugs, the FDA defines \"same drug\" as a drug that contains the same active chemical entity and is intended for the same use as the drug in question. A designated orphan drug may not receive orphan drug marketing exclusivity if it is approved for a use that is broader than the indication for which it received orphan designation. Orphan drug marketing exclusivity rights in the United States may be lost if the FDA later determines that the request for designation was materially defective or if the manufacturer is unable to assure sufficient quantity of the drug to meet the needs of patients with the rare disease or condition.. The criteria for designating an orphan medicinal product in the EU are similar in principle to those in the United States. Under Article 3 of Regulation (EC) 141/2000, a medicinal product may be designated as orphan if (1) it is intended for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of a life-threatening or chronically debilitating condition; (2) either (a) such condition affects no more than five in 10,000 persons in the EU when the application is made, or (b) the product, without the benefits derived from orphan status, would not generate sufficient return in the EU to justify investment; and (3) there exists no satisfactory method of diagnosis, prevention or treatment of such condition authorized for marketing in the EU, or if such a method exists, the product will be of significant benefit to those affected by the condition, as defined in Regulation (EC) 847/2000. Orphan medicinal products are eligible for financial incentives such as reduction of fees or fee waivers and are, upon grant of a marketing authorization, entitled to ten years. 37. of market exclusivity for the approved therapeutic indication. The application for orphan designation must be submitted before the application for marketing authorization. The applicant will receive a fee reduction for the marketing authorization application if the orphan designation has been granted, but not if the designation is still pending at the time the marketing authorization is submitted. Orphan designation does not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review and approval process.. The ten-year market exclusivity in the EU may be reduced to six years if, at the end of the fifth year, it is established that the product no longer meets the criteria for orphan designation, for example, if the product is sufficiently profitable not to justify maintenance of market exclusivity. Additionally, marketing authorization may be granted to a similar product for the same indication at any time if:. •  the second applicant can establish that its product, although similar, is safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior;. •  the applicant consents to a second orphan medicinal product application; or. •  the applicant cannot supply enough orphan medicinal product.. We originally applied for Orphan Drug Designation for emricasan for the treatment of fibrosis in HCV-POLT patients in the United States and the EU. In late 2013, the FDA granted an Orphan Drug Designation for emricasan for the treatment of POLT patients with reestablished fibrosis to delay the progression to cirrhosis and end-stage liver disease. In the EU, we withdrew the application based on feedback from the applicable regulatory body that emricasan may have efficacy in fibrosis outside of the HCV-POLT patient population. In June 2017, the FDA granted Orphan Drug Designation for our preclinical product candidate IDN-7314 for the treatment of primary sclerosing cholangitis, or PSC. In October 2017, the EMA granted orphan designation to IDN-7314 for the treatment of PSC. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain orphan drug exclusivity for emricasan or IDN-7314 in any jurisdiction for the target indications in a timely manner or at all or that a competitor will not obtain orphan drug exclusivity that could block the regulatory approval of emricasan or IDN-7314 for several years. If we are unable to obtain Orphan Drug Designation in the United States or in the EU, we will not receive market exclusivity, which might affect our ability to generate sufficient revenues. If a competitor is able to obtain orphan exclusivity that would block emricasan's or IDN-7314's regulatory approval, our ability to generate revenues could be significantly reduced, which could harm our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be unable to maintain or effectively utilize orphan drug exclusivity for emricasan or IDN-7314 for any indication.. We received Orphan Drug Designation from the FDA for emricasan for the treatment of POLT patients with reestablished fibrosis to delay the progression to cirrhosis and end-stage liver disease.  We also received Orphan Drug Designation from the FDA and orphan designation from the EMA for IDN-7314 for the treatment of PSC. We may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for emricasan or IDN-7314 for these orphan populations or any other orphan population, or we may be unable to successfully commercialize emricasan or IDN-7314 for such orphan populations due to risks that include:. •  the orphan patient populations may change in size;. •  there may be changes in the treatment options for patients that may provide alternative treatments to emricasan or IDN-7314;. •  the development costs may be greater than projected revenue of drug sales for the orphan indications;. •  the regulatory agencies may disagree with the design or implementation of our clinical trials;. •  there may be difficulties in enrolling patients for clinical trials;. •  emricasan or IDN-7314 may not prove to be efficacious in the respective orphan patient populations;. •  clinical trial results may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the regulatory agencies; and. •  emricasan or IDN-7314 may not have a favorable risk/benefit assessment in the respective orphan indication.. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval for emricasan or IDN-7314 for any orphan population or are unable to successfully commercialize emricasan or IDN-7314 for such orphan population, it could harm our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. 38. A Fast Track or Breakthrough Therapy designation for emricasan may not lead to a faster development or review process, or we may be unable to maintain or effectively utilize such a designation.. In February 2016, we announced that the FDA granted Fast Track designation to the emricasan development program for the treatment of liver cirrhosis caused by NASH. This Fast Track designation does not guarantee that we will qualify for or be able to take advantage of the expedited review procedures or that we will ultimately obtain regulatory approval of emricasan. Even though we have received this Fast Track designation, we may not experience a faster development process, review or approval compared to conventional FDA procedures. The FDA may withdraw the Fast Track designation if it believes that the Fast Track designation is no longer supported by data from our clinical development program. We may also seek Fast Track designation for additional liver disease indications, and we may not be successful in securing such additional designation or in expediting development if such designations were received.. The Fast Track program is intended to expedite or facilitate the process for reviewing new product candidates that meet certain criteria. Specifically, new drugs are eligible for Fast Track designation if they are intended, alone or in combination with one or more drugs, to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition and demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical needs for the disease or condition. Fast Track designation applies to the combination of the product candidate and the specific indication for which it is being studied. Unique to a Fast Track product candidate, the FDA may consider for review sections of the NDA on a rolling basis before the complete application is submitted, if the sponsor provides a schedule for the submission of the sections of the NDA, the FDA agrees to accept sections of the NDA and determines that the schedule is acceptable and the sponsor pays any required user fees upon submission of the first section of the NDA.. We may also seek a Breakthrough Therapy designation for emricasan for various liver disease indications. The Breakthrough Therapy designation is for a drug that is intended, alone or in combination with one or more other drugs, to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition and preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints, such as substantial treatment effects observed early in clinical development. The sponsor of a Breakthrough Therapy may request the FDA to designate the drug as a Breakthrough Therapy at the time of, or any time after, the submission of an IND for the drug. If the FDA designates a drug as a Breakthrough Therapy, it must take actions appropriate to expedite the development and review of the application, which may include holding meetings with the sponsor and the review team throughout the development of the drug; providing timely advice to, and interactive communication with, the sponsor regarding the development of the drug to ensure that the development program to gather the nonclinical and clinical data necessary for approval is as efficient as practicable; involving senior managers and experienced review staff, as appropriate, in a collaborative, cross-disciplinary review; assigning a cross-disciplinary project lead for the FDA review team to facilitate an efficient review of the development program and to serve as a scientific liaison between the review team and the sponsor; and taking steps to ensure that the design of the clinical trials is as efficient as practicable, when scientifically appropriate, such as by minimizing the number of patients exposed to a potentially less efficacious treatment.. The FDA has broad discretion is determining whether to grant a Fast Track or Breakthrough Therapy designation for a drug. Obtaining a Fast Track or Breakthrough Therapy designation does not change the standards for product approval, but may expedite the development or approval process. There is no assurance that the FDA will grant either such designation. Even if the FDA does grant either such designation for emricasan, it may not actually result in faster clinical development or regulatory review or approval. Furthermore, such a designation does not increase the likelihood that emricasan will receive marketing approval in the United States.. We entered into the Collaboration Agreement with Novartis, and we may form or seek additional strategic alliances or collaborations in the future. Such alliances and collaborations may inhibit future opportunities, or we may not realize the benefits of such collaborations or alliances.. We entered into the Collaboration Agreement with Novartis for the development of emricasan, and we may form or seek strategic alliances, joint ventures or collaborations or enter into licensing arrangements with other third parties that we believe will complement or augment our development and commercialization efforts with respect to future product candidates that we may develop. In connection with entering into the Collaboration Agreement, we incurred non-recurring and other charges and issued a convertible note in the amount of $15.0 million. In addition, for the period from the execution date of the Collaboration Agreement until the earlier of five years after the first commercial sale of an emricasan product in the United States or major European market or ten years from the execution date of the Collaboration Agreement, we have agreed not to develop in any pivotal registration clinical trials or commercialize any pan-caspase inhibitors in liver disease.  Further, Novartis will have a right of first negotiation prior to any offer by us to any third party for future pan-caspase inhibitors that we may develop or acquire for the treatment of liver diseases or for certain retained pan-caspase inhibitors, provided that any license or collaboration that we enter into or propose to enter into must be on terms and conditions in the aggregate no more favorable to such third party than those last offered to Novartis. These provisions, and similar provisions in agreements we may enter into in the future, may inhibit our ability to develop and commercialize other pan-caspase inhibitors, including IDN-7314, or enter into future alliances or collaborations to develop or commercialize other pan-caspase inhibitors, including IDN-7314.. 39. Future efforts for additional alliances or collaborations may also require us to incur non-recurring and other charges, increase our near- and long-term expenditures, issue securities that dilute our existing stockholders or disrupt our management and business. In addition, we face significant competition in seeking appropriate strategic partners, and the negotiation process is time-consuming and complex. Furthermore, we may not be able to realize the benefit of such transactions if we are unable to successfully integrate them with our existing operations and company culture. We cannot be certain that, following a strategic transaction or license, we will achieve the revenues or specific net income that justifies such transaction.. We are highly dependent on our key personnel, and if we are not successful in attracting and retaining highly qualified personnel, we may not be able to successfully implement our business strategy.. Our ability to compete in the highly competitive biotechnology and pharmaceuticals industries depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified managerial, scientific and medical personnel. We are highly dependent on our management, scientific and medical personnel. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees and our inability to find suitable replacements could potentially harm our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations.. Our scientific team has expertise in many different aspects of drug discovery and development. We conduct our operations at our leased facility in San Diego, California. This region is headquarters to many other biopharmaceutical companies and many academic and research institutions. Competition for skilled personnel in our market is very intense and may limit our ability to hire and retain highly qualified personnel on acceptable terms. In order to induce valuable employees to remain with our company, in addition to salary and cash incentives, we have provided stock options that vest over time. The value to employees of stock options that vest over time may be significantly affected by movements in our stock price that are beyond our control and may at any time be insufficient to counteract more lucrative offers from other companies.. Despite our efforts to retain valuable employees, members of our management, scientific and development teams may terminate their employment with us on short notice. Although we have employment agreements with our key employees, these employment agreements provide for at-will employment, which means that any of our employees could leave our employment at any time, with or without notice. We do not maintain \"key man\" insurance policies on the lives of these individuals or the lives of any of our other employees. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled junior, mid-level and senior managers as well as junior, mid-level and senior scientific and medical personnel.. Many of the other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies that we compete against for qualified personnel have greater financial and other resources, different risk profiles and a longer history in the industry than we do. They may also provide more diverse opportunities and better chances for career advancement. Some of these characteristics may be more appealing to high quality candidates than what we can offer. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain high quality personnel, our ability to advance the development of emricasan and obtain regulatory approval and potentially commercialize this product candidate will be limited.. We may need to grow the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing this growth.. As of March 1, 2018, we had 35 employees, 33 of whom are full-time. As our development and commercialization plans and strategies develop, we expect to need additional managerial, operational, sales, marketing, financial or other personnel. Future growth would impose significant added responsibilities on members of management, including:. •  identifying, recruiting, integrating, maintaining and motivating additional employees;. •  managing our internal development efforts effectively, including the clinical and FDA review process for emricasan, while complying with our contractual obligations to contractors and other third parties; and. •  improving our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures.. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize emricasan will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage any future growth, and our management may also have to divert a disproportionate amount of its attention away from day-to-day activities in order to devote a substantial amount of time to managing these growth activities. To date, we have used the services of outside vendors to perform tasks including clinical trial management, statistics and analysis, regulatory affairs, formulation development and other drug development functions. Our growth strategy may also entail expanding our group of contractors to implement these tasks going forward. Because we rely on numerous contractors, effectively outsourcing many key functions of our business, we will need to be able to effectively manage these contractors to ensure that they successfully carry out their contractual obligations and meet expected deadlines. However, if we are unable to effectively manage our outsourced activities or if the quality or accuracy of the services provided by contractors is compromised for any reason, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for emricasan or otherwise advance our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our existing contractors or find other competent contractors on economically reasonable terms, or at all. If we are not able to effectively expand our organization by hiring new employees and expanding our group of contractors, we may not be able to successfully implement the tasks necessary to further develop and commercialize emricasan. Accordingly, we may not achieve our research, development and commercialization goals for emricasan.. 40. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures.. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems and those of our current and future CROs and other contractors and consultants are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. While we have not experienced any such material system failure, accident or security breach to date, if such an event were to occur and cause interruptions in our operations, it could result in a material disruption of our development programs and our business operations. For example, the loss of clinical trial data from completed or future clinical trials could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. Likewise, we rely on third parties to manufacture emricasan and conduct clinical trials, and similar events relating to their computer systems could also have a material adverse effect on our business. To the extent that any disruption or security breach were to result in a loss of, or damage to, our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur liability and the further development and commercialization of emricasan could be delayed.. Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenues and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses.. Our operations could be subject to earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, water shortages, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics and other natural or manmade disasters or business interruptions, for which we are predominantly self-insured. The occurrence of any of these business disruptions could seriously harm our operations and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. We rely on third-party manufacturers to produce emricasan. Our ability to obtain clinical supplies of emricasan could be disrupted if the operations of these suppliers are affected by a man-made or natural disaster or other business interruption. Our corporate headquarters is located in California near major earthquake faults and fire zones. The ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults and fire zones and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown, but our operations and financial condition could suffer in the event of a major earthquake, fire or other natural disaster.. We rely significantly on information technology, which face certain risks, and any failure, inadequacy, interruption or security lapse of that technology, including any cybersecurity incidents, could harm our ability to operate our business effectively.. We rely significantly on our information technology to effectively manage and conduct our business and operations. Any failure, inadequacy or interruption of that infrastructure or security lapse of that technology, including cybersecurity incidents, could harm our ability to operate our business effectively. In the ordinary course of business, we collect, store and transmit confidential information, and it is critical that we do so in a secure manner in order to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of such confidential information. Significant disruptions to our information technology systems or breaches of information security could adversely affect our business. Our information technology systems are potentially vulnerable to service interruptions and security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees, partners, vendors, or from attacks by malicious third parties. Maintaining the secrecy of this confidential, proprietary, and/or trade secret information is important to our competitive business position. While we have taken steps to protect such information and invested in information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent service interruptions or security breaches in our systems or the unauthorized or inadvertent wrongful access or disclosure of confidential information that could adversely affect our business operations or result in the loss, dissemination, or misuse of critical or sensitive information. Cybersecurity attacks in particular are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, misappropriation of our confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. A breach of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure, unapproved dissemination or misappropriation or misuse of trade secrets, proprietary information, or other confidential information, whether as a result of theft, hacking, or other forms of deception, or for any other cause, could enable others to produce competing products, use our proprietary technology and/or adversely affect our business position. Further, a breach in security, unauthorized access resulting in misappropriation, theft, or sabotage with respect to our proprietary and confidential information, including research or clinical data, could require significant capital investments to remediate and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our employees, independent contractors, principal investigators, consultants, commercial collaborators, service providers and other vendors may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including noncompliance with regulatory standards and requirements.. We are exposed to the risk that our employees, independent contractors, principal investigators, consultants, commercial collaborators, service providers and other vendors may engage in fraudulent or other illegal activity. Misconduct by these parties could include intentional, reckless and/or negligent conduct or disclosure of unauthorized activities to us that violates FDA laws and regulations, including those laws that require the reporting of true, complete and accurate information to the FDA, manufacturing standards, federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations, or laws that require the true, complete and accurate reporting of financial information or data. In particular, sales, marketing and business arrangements in the healthcare industry are subject to extensive laws and regulations intended to prevent fraud, kickbacks, self-dealing and other abusive practices. These laws. 41. and regulations may restrict or prohibit a wide range of pricing, discounting, marketing and promotion, sales commission, customer incentive programs and other business arrangements. Activities subject to these laws also involve the improper use of information obtained in the course of clinical trials, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious harm to our reputation. We have adopted a code of business conduct and ethics, but it is not always possible to identify and deter third-party misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, monetary fines, possible exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs, reputational harm, diminished profits and future earnings, and curtailment of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our results of operations.. If emricasan is approved, we may be subject to healthcare laws, regulation and enforcement. Our or our collaborators' failure to comply with those laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Although we currently do not have any products on the market, if emricasan or another product candidate developed by us is approved, once commercialization of such product candidate begins, we and our collaborators may be subject to additional healthcare regulation and enforcement by the federal government and by authorities in the states and foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. Such laws include, without limitation:. •  the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, which governs the conduct of certain electronic healthcare transactions and protects the security and privacy of protected health information;. •  the federal healthcare programs' Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. A person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute or specific intent to violate it to have committed a violation. In addition, the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the False Claims Act;. •  federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent;. •  federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters. Similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it to have committed a violation;. •  the federal Physician Payment Sunshine Act, which requires manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children's Health Insurance Program (with certain exceptions) to report annually to the government information related to payments or other \"transfers of value\" made to physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors) and teaching hospitals, and requires applicable manufacturers and group purchasing organizations to report annually to the government ownership and investment interests held by the physicians described above and their immediate family members and payments or other \"transfers of value\" to such physician owners (manufacturers are required to submit reports to the government by the 90th day of each calendar year); and. •  state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers; state laws that require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government or otherwise restrict payments that may be made to healthcare providers and other potential referral sources; state laws that require drug manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures and pricing information; and state and foreign laws governing the privacy and security of health information in some circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, thus complicating compliance efforts.. If our or our collaborators' operations are found to be in violation of any of such laws or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, the exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs and individual imprisonment, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our results of operations.. 42. If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of emricasan.. We face an inherent risk of product liability as a result of the clinical testing of emricasan and will face an even greater risk if we commercialize any products. For example, we may be sued if emricasan allegedly causes injury or is found to be otherwise unsuitable during clinical testing, manufacturing, marketing or sale. Any such product liability claims may include allegations of defects in manufacturing, defects in design, a failure to warn of dangers inherent in the product, negligence, strict liability and a breach of warranties. Claims could also be asserted under state consumer protection acts. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of emricasan. Even successful defense would require significant financial and management resources. Regardless of the merits or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in:. •  decreased demand for emricasan;. •  injury to our reputation;. •  withdrawal of clinical trial participants;. •  initiation of investigations by regulators;. •  costs to defend the related litigation;. •  a diversion of management's time and our resources;. •  substantial monetary awards to trial participants or patients;. •  product recalls, withdrawals or labeling, marketing or promotional restrictions;. •  loss of revenue;. •  exhaustion of any available insurance and our capital resources;. •  the inability to commercialize emricasan; and. •  a decline in our share price.. Our inability to obtain and retain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of products we develop. Although we maintain product liability insurance covering our clinical trials, any claim that may be brought against us could result in a court judgment or settlement in an amount that is not covered, in whole or in part, by our insurance or that is in excess of the limits of our insurance coverage. If we determine that it is prudent to increase our product liability coverage due to the commercial launch of any approved product, we may be unable to obtain such increased coverage on acceptable terms, or at all. Our insurance policies also have various exclusions, and we may be subject to a product liability claim for which we have no coverage. We will have to pay any amounts awarded by a court or negotiated in a settlement that exceed our coverage limitations or that are not covered by our insurance, and we may not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient capital to pay such amounts.. 43. Risks Related to Our Reliance on Third Parties. If Novartis terminates the Collaboration Agreement, we may not receive additional payments under the Collaboration Agreement, and we may not be able to enter into a similar agreement on favorable terms, or at all.. Pursuant to the Collaboration Agreement, Novartis has certain termination rights in the circumstances of an uncured material breach or insolvency by us and in the event of a mandated clinical trial hold for any products containing only emricasan as an active ingredient, or Emricasan Only Products. Additionally, Novartis has the right to terminate the Collaboration Agreement without cause upon 180 days prior written notice to us. In such event, the license granted to Novartis will be terminated and revert to us, and Novartis will transfer any ongoing trials for the Emricasan Only Products to us and will cease development of emricasan products. In the event Novartis terminates the Collaboration Agreement due to our uncured material breach or insolvency, the license granted to Novartis pursuant to the Collaboration Agreement will become irrevocable and Novartis will be required to continue to make all milestone and royalty payments otherwise due to us under the Collaboration Agreement, provided that if we materially breach the Collaboration Agreement such that the rights licensed to Novartis or the commercial prospects of emricasan products are seriously impaired, the milestone and royalty payments will be reduced by 50 percent. If Novartis terminates the Collaboration Agreement, we will not receive additional milestones under the Collaboration Agreement, and we may be unable to raise the additional capital required to further develop and commercialize emricasan or enter into a collaboration agreement with another pharmaceutical company with equivalent or comparable terms, or at all. Further, any delays in entering into new strategic partnership agreements related to emricasan could delay the development and commercialization of emricasan, which would harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on Novartis to develop and commercialize emricasan, and we have limited control over how Novartis will conduct development and commercialization activities for emricasan.. Under the Collaboration Agreement, we rely on Novartis for a substantial portion of the financial resources and for the development, regulatory, and commercialization activities for emricasan, and we have limited control over the amount and timing of resources that Novartis devotes to emricasan. In addition, payments associated with development, regulatory and commercial milestones that we may be eligible to receive, as well as royalties and profit and loss sharing, will be dependent upon further advancement of emricasan by Novartis. If these milestones are not met and if emricasan is not commercialized, we will not receive future revenues from our collaboration with Novartis. Novartis may fail to develop or effectively commercialize emricasan for a variety of reasons, including because: it does not have sufficient resources or decides not to devote the necessary resources due to internal constraints such as limited cash or human resources or a change in strategic focus; it decides to pursue a competitive product developed outside of the collaboration; or it cannot obtain the necessary regulatory approvals.. Our dependence on Novartis and the Collaboration Agreement subjects us to a number of risks, including:. •  Novartis may not commit sufficient resources to the development, regulatory approval, marketing or distribution of emricasan;. •  Novartis may be unable to successfully complete the clinical development of emricasan or obtain all necessary approvals from the FDA and similar foreign regulatory agencies required to market emricasan;. •  Novartis may fail to manufacture emricasan in compliance with requirements of the FDA and similar foreign regulatory agencies and in commercial quantities sufficient to meet market demand;. •  there may be disputes between us and Novartis, including disagreements regarding the Collaboration Agreement, that may result in (1) the delay of (or prevent entirely) the achievement of development, regulatory and commercial objectives that would result in milestone payments, (2) the delay or termination of the development or commercialization of emricasan, and/or (3) costly litigation or arbitration that diverts our management's attention and resources;. •  Novartis may not comply with applicable regulatory guidelines with respect to developing or commercializing emricasan, which could adversely impact the development of or sales of emricasan and could result in administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including warning letters, civil and criminal penalties, injunctions, product seizures or detention, product recalls, total or partial suspension of production and refusal to approve any new drug applications;. •  Novartis may experience financial difficulties;. •  business combinations or significant changes in Novartis' business strategy may also adversely affect Novartis' ability to perform its obligations under the Collaboration Agreement;. 44. •  Novartis may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or may use our proprietary information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our proprietary information or expose us to potential litigation; and. •  notwithstanding certain non-competition requirements in the Collaboration Agreement, Novartis could independently move forward with a competing product candidate developed either independently or in collaboration with others, including our competitors.. If Novartis does not perform in the manner we expect or fulfill its responsibilities in a timely manner, or at all, the development, regulatory approval, and commercialization efforts related to emricasan could be delayed. It may be necessary for us to assume the responsibility at our own expense for the development of emricasan. In that event, we would likely need to seek additional funding and our potential to generate future revenues from emricasan could be significantly reduced and our business could be materially and adversely harmed.. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize emricasan, and our business could be substantially harmed.. We have and anticipate that we will continue to engage one or more third-party CROs in connection with our ongoing and future clinical trials for emricasan. We rely heavily on these parties for execution of our clinical trials, and we control only certain aspects of their activities. Nevertheless, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our trials is conducted in accordance with applicable protocol, legal, regulatory and scientific standards, and our reliance on our CROs does not relieve us of our regulatory responsibilities. We and our CROs are required to comply with GCPs, which are regulations and guidelines enforced by the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities for product candidates in clinical development. Regulatory authorities enforce these GCPs through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, principal investigators and trial sites. If we or any of these CROs fail to comply with applicable GCPs, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable, and the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications. We cannot assure you that, upon inspection, such regulatory authorities will determine that any of our clinical trials comply with the GCPs. In addition, our clinical trials must be conducted with drug product produced under cGMP regulations and will require a large number of test subjects. Our failure or any failure by our CROs to comply with these regulations or to recruit a sufficient number of patients may require us to repeat clinical trials, which would delay the regulatory approval process. Moreover, our business may be implicated if any of our CROs violate federal or state fraud and abuse or false claims laws and regulations or healthcare privacy and security laws.. Our CROs are not our employees and, except for remedies available to us under our agreements with such CROs, we cannot control whether or not they devote sufficient time and resources to our ongoing preclinical, clinical and nonclinical programs. These CROs may also have relationships with other commercial entities, including our competitors, for whom they may also be conducting clinical trials or other drug development activities, which could affect their performance on our behalf. Our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated if CROs do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines, if they need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons. As a result, we may not be able to complete development of, obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize emricasan. Therefore, our financial results and the commercial prospects for emricasan would be harmed, our costs could increase and our ability to generate revenues could be delayed.. Switching or adding CROs involves substantial cost and requires extensive management time and focus. In addition, there is a natural transition period when a new CRO commences work. As a result, delays occur, which can materially impact our ability to meet our desired clinical development timelines. Although we carefully manage our relationships with our CROs, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter challenges or delays in the future or that these delays or challenges will not have a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. We rely completely on third parties to manufacture our preclinical and clinical drug supplies, and we intend to rely on third parties to produce commercial supplies of emricasan, if approved. The development and commercialization of emricasan could be stopped, delayed or made less profitable if those third parties fail to obtain and maintain regulatory approval of their facilities, fail to provide us with sufficient quantities of drug product or fail to do so at acceptable quality levels or prices.. We do not currently have nor do we plan to acquire the infrastructure or capability internally to manufacture our clinical drug supplies for use in the conduct of our clinical trials, and we lack the resources and the capability to manufacture emricasan on a clinical or commercial scale. Instead, we rely on contract manufacturers for such production.. 45. We acquired quantities of active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, of emricasan from Pfizer as part of our acquisition of the rights to the product candidate. We believe the quantities we acquired from Pfizer are sufficient to support our ongoing clinical trials. Pursuant to the Collaboration Agreement, Novartis is responsible for the manufacturing of emricasan beyond our ongoing Phase 2b clinical trials. If Novartis terminates the Collaboration Agreement, we will be required to qualify a new API manufacturer prior to commercialization of emricasan and potentially prior to the initiation or completion of future clinical trials. Any delay in qualifying the new manufacturer of API could delay the potential commercialization of emricasan, and in the event that we do not have sufficient API to complete our ongoing clinical trials, it could delay such trials.. In addition, we do not currently have a long-term commitment for the production of finished emricasan drug product. Metrics, Inc., a contract manufacturer, has performed formulation and finished goods manufacturing for us based on purchase orders. We expect to continue to purchase finished drug product from Metrics, but currently have no long-term supply commitment with Metrics. If Metrics is unable to produce the amount of finished drug product we need, we may need to identify and qualify other third-party manufacturers of finished drug product in order to complete the clinical development and commercialization of emricasan if Novartis terminates the Collaboration Agreement. Metrics' inability to produce the amount of finished drug product we need or any delay in identifying and qualifying another manufacturer of finished drug product could delay our clinical trials and the potential commercialization of emricasan.. The facilities used by our contract manufacturers to manufacture emricasan must be approved by the applicable regulatory authorities, including the FDA, pursuant to inspections that will be conducted after an NDA or comparable foreign regulatory marketing application is submitted. We do not control the manufacturing process of emricasan and are completely dependent on our contract manufacturing partners for compliance with the FDA's requirements for manufacture of both the API and finished drug product. If our contract manufacturers cannot successfully manufacture material that conforms to our specifications and the FDA's strict regulatory requirements, they will not be able to secure or maintain FDA approval for the manufacturing facilities. In addition, we have no control over the ability of our contract manufacturers to maintain adequate quality control, quality assurance and qualified personnel. If the FDA or any other applicable regulatory authorities does not approve these facilities for the manufacture of emricasan or if it withdraws any such approval in the future, or if our suppliers or contract manufacturers decide they no longer want to supply or manufacture for us, we may need to find alternative manufacturing facilities, in which case we might not be able to identify manufacturers for clinical or commercial supply on acceptable terms, or at all, which would significantly impact our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval for or market emricasan.. In addition, the manufacture of pharmaceutical products is complex and requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, particularly in scaling up and validating initial production and absence of contamination. These problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control, including stability of the product, quality assurance testing, operator error, shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. Furthermore, if contaminants are discovered in our supply of emricasan or in the manufacturing facilities in which emricasan is made, such manufacturing facilities may need to be closed for an extended period of time to investigate and remedy the contamination. We cannot assure you that any stability or other issues relating to the manufacture of emricasan will not occur in the future. Additionally, our manufacturers may experience manufacturing difficulties due to resource constraints or as a result of labor disputes or unstable political environments. If our manufacturers were to encounter any of these difficulties, or otherwise fail to comply with their contractual obligations, our ability to provide our product candidate to patients in clinical trials would be jeopardized. Any delay or interruption in the supply of clinical trial supplies could delay the completion of clinical trials, increase the costs associated with maintaining clinical trial programs and, depending upon the period of delay, require us to commence new clinical trials at additional expense or terminate clinical trials completely.. If our third-party manufacturers use hazardous and biological materials in a manner that causes injury or violates applicable law, we may be liable for damages.. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of potentially hazardous substances, including chemical and biological materials by our third-party manufacturers. Our manufacturers are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations in the United States governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of medical, radioactive and hazardous materials. Although we believe that our manufacturers' procedures for using, handling, storing and disposing of these materials comply with legally prescribed standards, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from medical, radioactive or hazardous materials. As a result of any such contamination or injury, we may incur liability. Furthermore, local, city, state or federal authorities may curtail the use of these materials and interrupt our business operations. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines, and the liability could exceed our resources. We do not have any insurance for liabilities arising from medical, radioactive or hazardous materials. Compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations is expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development and production efforts, which could harm our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations.. 46. Risks Related to Our Financial Position and Capital Requirements. We have a limited operating history, have incurred significant operating losses since our inception and anticipate that we will continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future.. Our operations began in 2005, and we have only a limited operating history upon which you can evaluate our business and prospects. Our operations to date have been limited to conducting product development activities and performing research and development with respect to our clinical and preclinical programs. In addition, as an early-stage company, we have limited experience and have not yet demonstrated an ability to successfully overcome many of the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in new and rapidly evolving fields, particularly in the pharmaceutical area. Nor have we demonstrated an ability to obtain regulatory approval for or to commercialize a product candidate. Consequently, any predictions about our future performance may not be as accurate as they would be if we had a history of successfully developing and commercializing pharmaceutical products.. We have incurred significant operating losses since our inception, including net losses of $17.4 million, $29.7 million and $24.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $168.0 million. Our prior losses, combined with expected future losses, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders' equity and working capital. Our losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in our research and development activities. We anticipate that we will continue to incur operating losses over the next several years as we execute our plan to expand our research, development and commercialization activities, including the clinical development of emricasan, and continue to incur the costs of operating as a public company. In addition, if we obtain regulatory approval of emricasan, we may incur significant sales and marketing expenses. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing pharmaceutical products, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or whether or when we will become profitable, if ever.. We have not generated any revenues to date from product sales. We may never achieve or sustain profitability, which could depress the market price of our common stock and could cause our stockholders to lose all or a part of their investment.. Our ability to become profitable depends on our ability to develop and commercialize emricasan. To date, we have no products approved for commercial sale and have not generated any revenues from sales of any product candidate, and we do not know when, or if, we will generate revenues in the future. We do not anticipate generating revenues, if any, from sales of emricasan for at least the next several years, and we will never generate revenues from emricasan if we or Novartis does not obtain regulatory approval of emricasan. Our ability to generate future revenues depends heavily on our success in:. •  developing and commercializing emricasan in collaboration with Novartis, including relying on Novartis for Phase 3 development and commercialization;. •  developing and securing United States and/or foreign regulatory approvals for emricasan;. •  manufacturing commercial quantities of emricasan at acceptable cost;. •  achieving broad market acceptance of emricasan in the medical community and with third-party payors and patients;. •  commercializing emricasan, assuming we receive regulatory approval; and. •  pursuing clinical development of emricasan in additional indications.. Even if we do generate product sales, we may never achieve or sustain profitability. Our failure to become and remain profitable would depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital, expand our business, diversify our product offerings or continue our operations.. If Novartis terminates the Collaboration Agreement and we fail to obtain additional financing, we may be unable to complete the development and commercialization of emricasan.. Our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash since inception. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to continue the clinical development of emricasan, including our ongoing clinical trials. We believe the payments under the Collaboration Agreement and our existing capital resources will fund our share of the development costs for emricasan.  If Novartis terminates the Collaboration Agreement, we will require significant additional amounts in order to continue clinical development and, if approved, launch and commercialize emricasan. To date, our operations have been primarily funded through the proceeds from the issuance of our common and preferred stock, including the proceeds from our initial public offering, or IPO, completed in July 2013 and follow-on public offerings completed in April 2015 and May 2017. In addition, we have funded our operations through proceeds from sales of common stock under an At Market Issuance Sales Agreement, or the Sales Agreement, with MLV & Co. LLC, or MLV, pursuant to which we sold 6,305,526 shares of our common stock pursuant to the Sales Agreement at a weighted average price per share of $2.35 and received net proceeds of $14.2 million, after deducting offering-related transaction costs and commissions. We terminated the Sales Agreement in December 2016. We expect to fund our near-term operations primarily with the upfront payment of $50.0 million that we received from Novartis in December 2016 pursuant to the Collaboration Agreement and proceeds from the issuance of a convertible promissory note in the principal amount of $15.0 million, which we issued to Novartis in February 2017.. 47. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months from the date of the filing of this Form 10-K. However, changing circumstances may cause us to consume capital significantly faster than we currently anticipate, and we may need to spend more money than currently expected because of circumstances beyond our control. We will require additional capital for the development and commercialization of product candidates other than emricasan.. We may seek to obtain additional financing in the future through the issuance of our common stock in public offerings, through other equity or debt financings or through collaborations or partnerships with other companies. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, we may have to significantly delay, scale back or discontinue the development or commercialization of emricasan or other research and development initiatives.. Any of the above events could significantly harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations and cause the price of our common stock to decline.. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights to our technologies or product candidate.. We may seek additional capital through a combination of public and private equity offerings, debt financings, strategic partnerships and alliances and licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership interests of our stockholders will be diluted, and the terms may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of our stockholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased fixed payment obligations and could involve certain restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional debt, limitations on our ability to acquire or license intellectual property rights and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. If we raise additional funds through strategic partnerships and alliances and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies or product candidate, or grant licenses on terms unfavorable to us.. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss, or NOL, carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited.. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change\" (generally defined as a greater than 50% change (by value) in its equity ownership over a three-year period), the corporation's ability to use its pre-change NOL carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes to offset its post-change income may be limited. During 2017, we completed a Section 382 analysis to determine if our historical NOLs and research and development credits are limited due to an ownership change. Based on this analysis, we experienced an ownership change as a result of our Series A financing in October 2006 and our IPO in July 2013. We may also experience \"ownership changes\" in the future as a result of subsequent shifts in our stock ownership. At December 31, 2017, we had federal and state NOL carryforwards of $94.6 million and $76.4 million, respectively, net of a de minimis amount of federal NOLs that were determined to be limited for future utilization by Section 382. We also had federal and state research and development credits of $5.0 million and $2.0 million, respectively, net of a de minimis amount of research and development credits that were determined to be limited for future utilization by Section 382. Furthermore, under recently enacted U.S. tax legislation, although the treatment of tax losses generated in taxable years ending before December 31, 2017 has generally not changed, tax losses generated in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 may only be utilized to offset 80% of taxable income annually. This change may require us to pay federal income taxes in future years despite generating a loss for federal income tax purposes in prior years.. Unstable market and economic conditions may have serious adverse consequences on our business, financial condition and stock price.. As widely reported, global credit and financial markets have experienced extreme disruptions in the past several years, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates and uncertainty about economic stability. There can be no assurance that further deterioration in credit and financial markets and confidence in economic conditions will not occur. Our general business strategy may be adversely affected by any such economic downturn, volatile business environment or continued unpredictable and unstable market conditions. If the current equity and credit markets deteriorate, or do not improve, it may make any necessary equity or debt financing more difficult, more costly and more dilutive. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy, financial performance and stock price and could require us to delay or abandon clinical development plans. In addition, there is a risk that one or more of our current service providers, manufacturers and other partners may not survive these difficult economic times, which could directly affect our ability to attain our operating goals on schedule and on budget.. 48. At December 31, 2017, we had $74.9 million of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. While we are not aware of any downgrades, material losses, or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents and marketable securities since December 31, 2017, no assurance can be given that deterioration of the global credit and financial markets would not negatively impact our current portfolio of cash equivalents or marketable securities or our ability to meet our financing objectives. Furthermore, our stock price may decline due in part to the volatility of the stock market.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. If our efforts to protect the proprietary nature of the intellectual property related to our technologies are not adequate, we may not be able to compete effectively in our market.. We rely upon a combination of patents, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect the intellectual property related to our technologies. Any disclosure to or misappropriation by third parties of our confidential proprietary information could enable competitors to quickly duplicate or surpass our technological achievements, thus eroding our competitive position in our market.. Composition-of-matter patents on the API and crystalline forms are generally considered to be the strongest form of intellectual property protection for pharmaceutical products, as such patents provide protection without regard to any method of use. We cannot be certain that the claims in our patent applications covering composition-of-matter and crystalline forms of emricasan will be considered patentable by the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or the USPTO, courts in the United States, or by the patent offices and courts in foreign countries. Method-of-use patents protect the use of a product for the specified method. This type of patent does not prevent a competitor from making and marketing a product that is identical to our product for an indication that is outside the scope of the patented method. Moreover, even if competitors do not actively promote their product for our targeted indications, physicians may prescribe these products \"off-label.\" Although off-label prescriptions may infringe or contribute to the infringement of method-of-use patents, the practice is common and such infringement is difficult to prevent or prosecute.. The strength of patents in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical field involves complex legal and scientific questions and can be uncertain. Some of our patents related to emricasan were acquired from a predecessor owner and were therefore not written by us or our attorneys, and we did not have control over the drafting and prosecution of these patent applications. Further, the former patent owners might not have given the same attention to the drafting and early prosecution of these patents and applications as we would have if we had been the owners of the patents and applications and had control over the drafting and prosecution. In addition, the former patent owners may not have been completely familiar with United States patent law, possibly resulting in inadequate disclosure and/or claims. This could result in findings of invalidity or unenforceability of the patents we own or patents issuing with reduced claim scope.  Under the Collaboration Agreement, Novartis is responsible for the prosecution and maintenance of jointly owned patents and patent applications. Therefore, these patent applications may not be written by us or our attorneys, and we will not control the drafting, prosecution and maintenance of these patent applications and patents. Novartis might not give the same attention to the drafting and prosecution of these applications as we would if we controlled the drafting and prosecution. This could result in findings of invalidity or unenforceability of such patents or such patent applications issuing with reduced claim scope.. In addition, the patent applications that we own or that we may license may fail to result in issued patents in the United States or in other foreign countries. Even if the patents do successfully issue, third parties may challenge the validity, enforceability or scope thereof, which may result in such patents being narrowed, invalidated or held unenforceable. Furthermore, even if they are unchallenged, our patents and patent applications may not adequately protect our intellectual property or prevent others from designing around our claims. If the breadth or strength of protection provided by the patent applications we hold with respect to emricasan is threatened, it could dissuade Novartis from developing emricasan and threaten the ability to commercialize emricasan. Further, if there are delays in our clinical trials, the period of time during which emricasan is marketed under patent protection would be reduced. Since patent applications in the United States and most other countries are confidential for a period of time after filing, we cannot be certain that we are the first to file any patent application related to emricasan. Furthermore, for applications in which all claims are entitled to a priority date before March 16, 2013, an interference proceeding can be provoked by a third-party or instituted by the USPTO to determine who was the first to invent any of the subject matter covered by the patent claims of our applications. For applications containing a claim not entitled to priority before March 16, 2013, the passage of the America Invents Act changed the priority of invention to a \"first to file\" system in the United States. This requires us to be cognizant going forward of the time from invention to filing of a patent application.. 49. In addition to the protection afforded by patents, we seek to rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect proprietary know-how that is not patentable, processes for which patents are difficult to enforce and any other elements of our drug discovery and development processes that involve proprietary know-how, information or technology that is not covered by patents. Although we require all of our employees to assign their inventions to us, and require all of our employees, advisors and any third parties who have access to our proprietary know-how, information or technology to enter into confidentiality agreements, we cannot be certain that our trade secrets and other confidential proprietary information will not be disclosed or that competitors will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent or in the same manner as the laws of the United States. As a result, we may encounter significant problems in protecting and defending our intellectual property both in the United States and abroad. If we are unable to prevent unauthorized material disclosure of our intellectual property to third parties, we will not be able to establish or maintain a competitive advantage in our market, which could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. Third-party claims of intellectual property infringement may prevent or delay our drug discovery and development efforts.. Our commercial success depends in part on our and our collaborators avoiding infringement of the patents and proprietary rights of third parties. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patents and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, as well as administrative proceedings for challenging patents, including interference and reexamination proceedings before the USPTO or oppositions and other comparable proceedings in foreign jurisdictions. Under United States patent reform, new procedures including inter partes review and post grant review have been implemented. As stated above, this reform brings uncertainty to the possibility of challenge to our patents in the future. Numerous United States and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields in which we or our collaborators are developing emricasan. As the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries expand and more patents are issued, the risk increases that emricasan may give rise to claims of infringement of the patent rights of others.. Third parties may assert that we or our collaborators are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. There may be third-party patents of which we or our collaborators are currently unaware with claims to materials, formulations, methods of manufacture or methods for treatment related to the use or manufacture of emricasan. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending patent applications that may later result in issued patents that emricasan may infringe. In addition, third parties may obtain patents in the future and claim that use of our or our collaborators' technologies infringes upon these patents. Under the Collaboration Agreement, we will cooperate with Novartis in the defense of the patent rights under the Collaboration Agreement in the event any patent or patent application is challenged by a third party. If any third-party patents were held by a court of competent jurisdiction to cover the manufacturing process of emricasan, any molecules formed during the manufacturing process or any final product itself, the holders of any such patents may be able to block the ability to commercialize the product candidate unless we or our collaborators obtain a license under the applicable patents, or until such patents expire or they are finally determined to be held invalid or unenforceable. Similarly, if any third-party patent were held by a court of competent jurisdiction to cover aspects of our formulations, processes for manufacture or methods of use, including combination therapy or patient selection methods, the holders of any such patent may be able to block the ability to develop and commercialize the product candidate, unless we or our collaborators obtain a license or until such patent expires or is finally determined to be held invalid or unenforceable. In either case, such a license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we or our collaborators are unable to obtain a necessary license to a third-party patent on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, our ability to commercialize emricasan may be impaired or delayed, which could in turn significantly harm our business.. Parties making claims against us may seek and obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block the ability to further develop and commercialize emricasan. Defense of these claims, regardless of their merit, would involve substantial litigation expense and would be a substantial diversion of employee resources from our business. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages and attorneys' fees for willful infringement, obtain one or more licenses from third parties, pay royalties or redesign our infringing products, which may be impossible or require substantial time and monetary expenditure. We cannot predict whether any such license would be available at all or whether it would be available on commercially reasonable terms. Furthermore, even in the absence of litigation, we or our collaborators may need to obtain licenses from third parties to advance our research or allow commercialization of emricasan. We may fail to obtain any of these licenses at a reasonable cost or on reasonable terms, if at all. In that event, we or our collaborators would be unable to further develop and commercialize emricasan, which could harm our business significantly.. 50. We or our collaborators may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, which could be expensive, time-consuming and unsuccessful.. Competitors may infringe our patents. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we or our collaborators may be required to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time-consuming. Under the Collaboration Agreement, Novartis will have the first right to bring and control any legal action in connection with a third party infringement relating to patent rights under the Collaboration Agreement. In an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that one or more of our patents is not valid or is unenforceable or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the technology in question. An adverse result in any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated, held unenforceable, or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Defense of these claims, regardless of their merit, would involve substantial litigation expense and would be a substantial diversion of employee resources from our business. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we or our collaborators may have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages and attorneys' fees for willful infringement, obtain one or more licenses from third parties, pay royalties or redesign our infringing products, which may be impossible or require substantial time and monetary expenditure.. Interference proceedings provoked by third parties or brought by the USPTO may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patents or patent applications. An unfavorable outcome could require us to cease using the related technology or to attempt to license rights to it from the prevailing party. Our business could be harmed if the prevailing party does not offer us a license on commercially reasonable terms. Litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and distract our management and other employees. We may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our trade secrets or confidential information, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect those rights as fully as in the United States.. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock.. Obtaining and maintaining our patent protection depends on compliance with various procedural, document submission, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements.. Periodic maintenance fees on any issued patent are due to be paid to the USPTO and foreign patent agencies in several stages over the lifetime of the patent. The USPTO and various foreign governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other similar provisions during the patent application process. While an inadvertent lapse can in many cases be cured by payment of a late fee or by other means in accordance with the applicable rules, there are situations in which noncompliance can result in abandonment or lapse of the patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. Non-compliance events that could result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application include, but are not limited to, failure to respond to official actions within prescribed time limits, non-payment of fees and failure to properly legalize and submit formal documents. In such an event, our competitors might be able to enter the market, which would have a material adverse effect on our business.. We may be subject to claims that our employees or independent contractors have wrongfully used or disclosed confidential information of third parties.. We have received confidential and proprietary information from third parties. In addition, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies. We may be subject to claims that we or our employees or independent contractors have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed confidential information of these third parties or our employees' former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial cost and be a distraction to our management and employees.. 51. Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock. The price of our stock may be volatile.. Prior to our IPO, there was no public market for our common stock. Since the commencement of trading in connection with our IPO in July 2013 through March 1, 2018, the sale price per share of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market, or Nasdaq, has ranged from a low of $1.40 to a high of $15.67. The trading price of our common stock is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control, including limited trading volume. In addition to the factors discussed in this \"Risk Factors\" section and elsewhere in this annual report, these factors include:. •  the commencement, enrollment or results of our ongoing clinical trials of emricasan or any future clinical trials we may conduct, or changes in the development status of emricasan;. •  any delay in our regulatory filings for emricasan and any adverse development or perceived adverse development with respect to the applicable regulatory authority's review of such filings, including without limitation the FDA's issuance of a \"refusal to file\" letter or a request for additional information;. •  adverse results or delays in clinical trials;. •  our decision to initiate a clinical trial, not to initiate a clinical trial or to terminate an existing clinical trial;. •  adverse regulatory decisions, including failure to receive regulatory approval for emricasan;. •  changes in laws or regulations applicable to our product candidate or products, including but not limited to clinical trial requirements for approvals;. •  adverse developments concerning our manufacturers;. •  our inability to obtain adequate product supply for any approved drug product or inability to do so at acceptable prices;. •  our inability to establish collaborations if needed;. •  our failure to commercialize emricasan;. •  additions or departures of key scientific or management personnel;. •  unanticipated serious safety concerns related to the use of emricasan;. •  introduction of new products or services offered by us or our competitors;. •  announcements of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by us or our competitors;. •  announcements by Novartis relating to the development or commercialization of emricasan;. •  our ability to effectively manage our growth;. •  the size and growth, if any, of the NASH cirrhosis, POLT-HCV-SVR and NASH fibrosis markets and other targeted markets;. •  our ability to successfully enter new markets;. •  actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results;. •  our cash position;. •  our failure to meet the estimates and projections of the investment community or that we may otherwise provide to the public;. •  publication of research reports about us or our industry or positive or negative recommendations or withdrawal of research coverage by securities analysts;. •  changes in the market valuations of similar companies;. •  overall performance of the equity markets;. •  sales of our common stock by us or our stockholders in the future;. •  trading volume of our common stock;. •  changes in accounting practices;. •  ineffectiveness of our internal controls;. 52. •  disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies;. •  significant lawsuits, including patent or stockholder litigation;. •  general political and economic conditions; and. •  other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control.. In addition, the stock market in general, and Nasdaq and biotechnology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. The realization of any of the above risks or any of a broad range of other risks, including those described in this \"Risk Factors\" section and elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K, could have a dramatic and material adverse impact on the market price of our common stock.. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock so any returns will be limited to the value of our stock.. We have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our common stock. We currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings for the development, operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Any return to stockholders will therefore be limited to the appreciation of their stock.. Our principal stockholders and management own a significant percentage of our stock and will be able to exert significant control over matters subject to stockholder approval.. As of December 31, 2017, our executive officers, directors, 5% stockholders and their affiliates owned approximately 17% of our outstanding voting stock. Therefore, these stockholders have the ability to influence us through this ownership position. These stockholders may be able to determine all matters requiring stockholder approval. For example, these stockholders may be able to control elections of directors, amendments of our organizational documents, or approval of any merger, sale of assets, or other major corporate transaction. This may prevent or discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or offers for our common stock that our stockholders may feel are in their best interests.. We are an emerging growth company, and we cannot be certain if the reduced reporting requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act. For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirements of holding nonbinding advisory votes on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We could be an emerging growth company for up to five years following 2013, the year in which we completed our IPO, although circumstances could cause us to lose that status earlier, including if the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeds $700.0 million as of any June 30 before that time or if we have total annual gross revenue of $1.0 billion or more during any fiscal year before that time, in which cases we would no longer be an emerging growth company as of the following December 31 or if we issue more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt during any three year period before that time, in which case we would cease to be an emerging growth company immediately. Even after we no longer qualify as an emerging growth company, we may qualify as a \"smaller reporting company,\" which would allow us to take advantage of many of the same exemptions from disclosure requirements including not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can also delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption from new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. As a result, changes in rules of United States generally accepted accounting principles or their interpretation, the adoption of new guidance or the application of existing guidance to changes in our business could significantly affect our financial position and results of operations.. 53. We incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to compliance initiatives.. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, and Nasdaq to implement provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, imposes significant requirements on public companies, including requiring establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and changes in corporate governance practices. Further, in July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, was enacted. There are significant corporate governance and executive compensation related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that require the SEC to adopt additional rules and regulations in these areas such as \"say on pay\" and proxy access. Current legislation permits emerging growth companies to implement many of these requirements over a longer period and up to five years following their IPO. We are taking advantage of this legislation but cannot guarantee that we will not be required to implement these requirements sooner than budgeted or planned and thereby incur unexpected expenses. Stockholder activism, the current political environment and the current high level of government intervention and regulatory reform may lead to substantial new regulations and disclosure obligations, which may lead to additional compliance costs and impact the manner in which we operate our business in ways we cannot currently anticipate.. The rules and regulations applicable to public companies may substantially increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. If these requirements divert the attention of our management and personnel from other business concerns, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The increased costs will decrease our net income or increase our net loss and may require us to reduce costs in other areas of our business or increase the prices of our products or services. For example, these rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to incur substantial costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. We cannot predict or estimate the amount or timing of additional costs we may incur to respond to these requirements. The impact of these requirements could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by our existing stockholders in the public market could cause our stock price to fall.. Persons who were our stockholders prior to our IPO in July 2013 continue to hold a substantial number of shares of our common stock that they are able to sell in the public market, subject in some cases to certain legal restrictions. Significant portions of these shares are held by a small number of stockholders. If these stockholders sell, or indicate an intention to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. The perception in the market that these sales may occur could also cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. As of March 1, 2018, we had 30,059,999 shares of common stock outstanding.. In addition, shares of common stock that are either subject to outstanding options or reserved for future issuance under our equity incentive plans will become eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of various vesting schedules and Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act of 1933, or the Securities Act. If these additional shares of common stock are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline.. The holders of 791,547 shares of our common stock as of March 1, 2018 (including shares issuable upon exercise of options and warrants) are entitled to rights with respect to the registration of their shares under the Securities Act. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in the shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act, except for shares held by affiliates, as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Any sales of securities by these stockholders could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock.. Future sales and issuances of our common stock or rights to purchase common stock, including pursuant to our equity incentive plans, could result in additional dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders and could cause our stock price to fall.. We expect that significant additional capital may be needed in the future to continue our planned operations, including conducting clinical trials, commercialization efforts, expanded research and development activities and costs associated with operating a public company. To raise capital, we may sell common stock, convertible securities or other equity securities in one or more transactions at prices and in a manner we determine from time to time. If we sell common stock, convertible securities or other equity securities, our stockholders may be materially diluted by subsequent sales, and new investors could gain rights preferences and privileges senior to the holders of our common stock.. 54. Pursuant to our 2013 equity incentive award plan, or the 2013 Plan, which became effective on the business day prior to the public trading date of our common stock, our management is authorized to grant stock options to our employees, directors and consultants. The number of shares available for future grant under the 2013 Plan will automatically increase each year by an amount equal to the least of (1) 1,000,000 shares of our common stock, (2) 5% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of the last day of our immediately preceding fiscal year, or (3) such other amount as our board of directors may determine. Unless our board of directors elects not to increase the number of shares available for future grant each year, our stockholders may experience additional dilution, which could cause our stock price to fall.. We could be subject to securities class action litigation.. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because pharmaceutical companies have experienced significant stock price volatility in recent years. If we face such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could harm our business.. Anti-takeover provisions under our charter documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change of control, which could limit the market price of our common stock and may prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our board of directors that our stockholders might consider favorable. Some of these provisions include:. •  a board of directors divided into three classes serving staggered three-year terms, such that not all members of the board will be elected at one time;. •  a prohibition on stockholder action through written consent, which requires that all stockholder actions be taken at a meeting of our stockholders;. •  a requirement that special meetings of stockholders be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, the chief executive officer, the president or by a majority of the total number of authorized directors;. •  advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations for election to our board of directors;. •  a requirement that no member of our board of directors may be removed from office by our stockholders except for cause and, in addition to any other vote required by law, upon the approval of not less than two-thirds of all outstanding shares of our voting stock then entitled to vote in the election of directors;. •  a requirement of approval of not less than two-thirds of all outstanding shares of our voting stock to amend any bylaws by stockholder action or to amend specific provisions of our certificate of incorporation; and. •  the authority of the board of directors to issue preferred stock on terms determined by the board of directors without stockholder approval and such preferred stock may include rights superior to the rights of the holders of common stock.. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporate Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These anti-takeover provisions and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirors to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by the then-current board of directors and could also delay or impede a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors of their choosing or cause us to take other corporate actions desired by certain stockholders. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We currently have limited research coverage by securities and industry analysts. In the event one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price may decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which might cause our stock price and trading volume to decline.. 55"
