[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business is subject to various risks and uncertainties. Any of the risks and uncertainties described below could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and should be considered in evaluating us. While we believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our business, performance, or financial condition in the future.. Risks Relating to our Business. Deterioration of general economic conditions could harm our business and results of operations.. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in national or global economic conditions, including inflation, interest rates, availability of capital markets, consumer spending rates, energy availability and costs (including fuel surcharges), and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions.. Volatility in financial markets and deterioration of national and global economic conditions could impact our business and operations in a variety of ways, including as follows:. • consumers may shift purchases to more generic, lower-priced, or other value offerings, or may forego certain purchases altogether during economic downturns, which could result in a reduction in sales of higher margin products or a shift in our product mix to lower margin offerings adversely affecting the results of our operations;. • decreased demand in the restaurant business, particularly casual and fine dining, which may adversely affect our Foodservice operations;. • volatility in commodity and other input costs could substantially impact our result of operations;. • volatility in the equity markets or interest rates could substantially impact our pension costs and required pension contributions; and. • it may become more costly or difficult to obtain debt or equity financing to fund operations or investment opportunities, or to refinance our debt in the future, in each case on terms and within a time period acceptable to us.. Increased competition may result in reduced sales or profits.. The food industry is highly competitive, and further consolidation in the industry would likely increase competition. Our principal competitors have substantial financial, marketing, and other resources. Increased competition can reduce our sales due to loss of market share or the need to reduce prices to respond to competitive and customer pressures. Competitive pressures also may restrict our ability to increase prices, including in response to commodity and other cost increases. We sell branded, private brand, and customized food products, as well as commercially branded foods. Our branded products have an advantage over private brand products primarily due to advertising and name recognition, although private brand products typically sell at a discount to those of branded competitors. In addition, when branded competitors focus on price and promotion, the environment for private brand producers becomes more challenging because the price difference between private brand products and branded products may become less significant. In most product categories, we compete not only with other widely advertised branded products, but also with other private label and store brand products that are generally sold at lower prices. A strong competitive response from one or more of our competitors to our marketplace efforts, or a consumer shift towards more generic, lower-priced, or other value offerings, could result in us reducing pricing, increasing marketing or other expenditures, or losing market share. Our margins and profits could decrease if a reduction in prices or increased costs are not counterbalanced with increased sales volume.. 6. Increases in commodity costs may have a negative impact on profits.. We use many different commodities such as wheat, corn, oats, soybeans, beef, pork, poultry, steel, aluminum, and energy. Commodities are subject to price volatility caused by commodity market fluctuations, supply and demand, currency fluctuations, external conditions such as weather, and changes in governmental agricultural and energy policies and regulations. In addition, recent world events have increased the risks posed by international trade disputes, tariffs, and sanctions. We procure a wide spectrum of commodities globally and could potentially face increased prices for commodities sourced from nations that could be impacted by trade disputes, tariffs, or sanctions. Commodity price increases will result in increases in raw material, packaging, and energy costs and operating costs. We may not be able to increase our product prices and achieve cost savings that fully offset these increased costs; and increasing prices may result in reduced sales volume, reduced margins, and profitability. We have experience in hedging against commodity price increases; however, these practices and experience reduce, but do not eliminate, the risk of negative profit impacts from commodity price increases. We do not fully hedge against changes in commodity prices, and the risk management procedures that we use may not always work as we intend.. Volatility in the market value of derivatives we use to manage exposures to fluctuations in commodity prices will cause volatility in our gross margins and net earnings.. We utilize derivatives to manage price risk for some of our principal ingredients and energy costs, including grains (wheat, corn, and oats), oils, beef, pork, poultry, and energy. Changes in the values of these derivatives are generally recorded in earnings currently, resulting in volatility in both gross margin and net earnings. These gains and losses are reported in cost of goods sold in our Consolidated Statements of Operations and in unallocated general corporate expenses in our segment operating results until we utilize the underlying input in our manufacturing process, at which time the gains and losses are reclassified to segment operating profit. We may experience volatile earnings as a result of these accounting treatments.. If we do not achieve the appropriate cost structure in the highly competitive food industry, our profitability could decrease.. Our future success and earnings growth depend in part on our ability to achieve the appropriate cost structure and operate efficiently in the highly competitive food industry, particularly in an environment of volatile input costs. We continue to implement profit-enhancing initiatives that impact our supply chain and general and administrative functions. These initiatives are focused on cost-saving opportunities in procurement, manufacturing, logistics, and customer service, as well as general and administrative overhead levels. Gaining additional efficiencies may become more difficult over time. Our failure to reduce costs through productivity gains or by eliminating redundant costs resulting from acquisitions could adversely affect our profitability and weaken our competitive position. If we do not continue to effectively manage costs and achieve additional efficiencies, our competitiveness and our profitability could decrease.. We may not realize the benefits that we expect from our Supply Chain and Administrative Efficiency Plan, or SCAE Plan.. In May 2013, we announced the Supply Chain and Administrative Efficiency Plan (the \"SCAE Plan\"), our plan to integrate and restructure the operations of our Private Brands business, improve selling, general and administrative (\"SG&A\") effectiveness and efficiencies, and optimize our supply chain network, manufacturing assets, dry distribution centers, and mixing centers. In fiscal 2016, we announced plans to realize efficiency benefits by reducing SG&A expenses and enhancing trade spend processes and tools, which plans were included in the SCAE Plan. Although we divested the Private Brands business, we have continued to implement the SCAE Plan, including by working to optimize our supply chain network, pursue cost reductions through our SG&A functions, enhance trade spend processes and tools, and improve productivity.. The successful design and implementation of the SCAE Plan presents significant organizational design and infrastructure challenges and in many cases will require successful negotiations with third parties, including labor organizations, suppliers, business partners, and other stakeholders. In addition, the SCAE Plan may not advance our business strategy as expected. Events and circumstances, such as financial or strategic difficulties, delays, and unexpected costs may occur that could result in our not realizing all or any of the anticipated benefits or our not realizing the anticipated benefits on our expected timetable. If we are unable to realize the anticipated savings of the SCAE Plan, our ability to fund other initiatives may be adversely affected. Any failure to implement the SCAE Plan in accordance with our expectations could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. 7. In addition, the complexity of the SCAE Plan will require a substantial amount of management and operational resources. Our management team must successfully implement administrative and operational changes necessary to achieve the anticipated benefits of the SCAE Plan. These and related demands on our resources may divert the organization's attention from existing core businesses, integrating financial or other systems, have adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, and impact employee morale. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected.. We may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls, which could negatively impact our profitability.. We sell food products for human consumption, which involves risks such as product contamination or spoilage, product tampering, other adulteration of food products, mislabeling, and misbranding. We may be subject to liability if the consumption of any of our products causes injury, illness, or death. In addition, we will voluntarily recall products in the event of contamination or damage. We have issued recalls and have from time to time been and currently are involved in lawsuits relating to our food products. A significant product liability judgment or a widespread product recall may negatively impact our sales and profitability for a period of time depending on the costs of the recall, the destruction of product inventory, product availability, competitive reaction, customer reaction, and consumer attitudes. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate and brand image.. Additionally, as a manufacturer and marketer of food products, we are subject to extensive regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and other federal, state, and local government agencies. The Food, Drug & Cosmetic Act, (the \"FDCA\"), and the Food Safety Modernization Act and their respective regulations govern, among other things, the manufacturing, composition and ingredients, packaging, and safety of food products. Some aspects of these laws use a strict liability standard for imposing sanctions on corporate behavior; meaning that no intent is required to be established. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls, or seizures, as well as criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. We must identify changing consumer preferences and develop and offer food products to meet their preferences.. Consumer preferences evolve over time and the success of our food products depends on our ability to identify the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to their preferences, including concerns of consumers regarding health and wellness, obesity, product attributes, and ingredients. Introduction of new products and product extensions requires significant development and marketing investment. If our products fail to meet consumer preferences, or we fail to introduce new and improved products on a timely basis, then the return on that investment will be less than anticipated and our strategy to grow sales and profits with investments in acquisitions, marketing, and innovation will be less successful. Similarly, demand for our products could be affected by consumer concerns or perceptions regarding the health effects of ingredients such as sodium, trans fats, sugar, processed wheat, or other product ingredients or attributes.. Changes in our relationships with significant customers or suppliers could adversely affect us.. During fiscal 2018, our largest customer, Walmart, Inc. and its affiliates, accounted for approximately 24% of our consolidated net sales. There can be no assurance that Walmart, Inc. and other significant customers will continue to purchase our products in the same quantities or on the same terms as in the past, particularly as increasingly powerful retailers continue to demand lower pricing. The loss of a significant customer or a material reduction in sales to a significant customer could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and results of operations.. 8. The sophistication and buying power of our customers could have a negative impact on profits.. Our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs, and food distributors, have continued to consolidate, resulting in fewer customers on which we can rely for business. These consolidations, the growth of supercenters, and the growth of on-line customers have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power and negotiating strength who are more capable of resisting price increases and can demand lower pricing, increased promotional programs, or specialty tailored products. In addition, larger retailers have the scale to develop supply chains that permit them to operate with reduced inventories or to develop and market their own retailer brands. These customers may also in the future use more of their shelf space, currently used for our products, for their store brand products. We continue to implement initiatives to counteract these pressures. However, if the larger size of these customers results in additional negotiating strength and/or increased private label or store brand competition, our profitability could decline.. Consolidation also increases the risk that adverse changes in our customers' business operations or financial performance will have a corresponding material adverse effect on us. For example, if our customers cannot access sufficient funds or financing, then they may delay, decrease, or cancel purchases of our products, or delay or fail to pay us for previous purchases.. If we are unable to complete proposed acquisitions or integrate acquired businesses, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected.. From time to time, we evaluate acquisition candidates that may strategically fit our business objectives. If we are unable to complete acquisitions or to successfully integrate and develop acquired businesses, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, we may incur asset impairment charges related to acquisitions that reduce our profitability.. Our acquisition activities may present financial, managerial, and operational risks. Those risks include diversion of management attention from existing businesses, difficulties integrating personnel and financial and other systems, effective and immediate implementation of control environment processes across our employee population, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, inaccurate estimates of fair value made in the accounting for acquisitions and amortization of acquired intangible assets which would reduce future reported earnings, potential loss of customers or key employees of acquired businesses, and indemnities and potential disputes with the sellers. Any of these factors could affect our product sales, financial condition, and results of operations.. In fiscal 2018, we completed the acquisitions of the Sandwich Bros. of Wisconsin® business for $87.3 million in cash, net of cash acquired, including working capital adjustments, and the Angie's Artisan Treats, LLC business, which included the Angie's® BOOMCHICKAPOP® ready-to-eat popcorn brand, for $249.8 million in cash, net of cash acquired, including working capital adjustments. In fiscal 2019, we entered into a definitive merger agreement with Pinnacle pursuant to which, among other things and subject to the satisfaction or waiver of specified conditions, we plan to acquire all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Pinnacle for cash and shares of Conagra Brands common stock. See \"Risks Relating to our Planned Acquisition of Pinnacle\" below for more information on risks relating to the planned acquisition of Pinnacle.. If we are unable to complete our proposed divestitures, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected.. From time to time, we may divest businesses that do not meet our strategic objectives or do not meet our growth or profitability targets. We may not be able to complete desired or proposed divestitures on terms favorable to us. Gains or losses on the sales of, or lost operating income from, those businesses may affect our profitability and margins. Moreover, we may incur asset impairment charges related to divestitures that reduce our profitability.. Our divestiture activities may present financial, managerial, and operational risks. Those risks include diversion of management attention from existing businesses, difficulties separating personnel and financial and other systems, possible need for providing transition services to buyers, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers and indemnities and potential disputes with the buyers. Any of these factors could adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and results of operations.. 9. Disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our ability to make, move, and sell our products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to our supply chain, including third-party manufacturing or transportation and distribution capabilities, due to weather, including any potential effects of climate change, natural disaster, fire or explosion, terrorism, pandemics, strikes, government action, or other reasons beyond our control or the control of our suppliers and business partners, could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, particularly when a product is sourced from a single supplier or location, could adversely affect our business or financial results. In addition, disputes with significant suppliers, including disputes regarding pricing or performance, could adversely affect our ability to supply products to our customers and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and results of operations.. Any damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Maintaining a good reputation globally is critical to selling our products. Product contamination or tampering, the failure to maintain high standards for product quality, safety, and integrity, including with respect to raw materials and ingredients obtained from suppliers, or allegations of product quality issues, mislabeling, or contamination, even if untrue, may reduce demand for our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. Our reputation could also be adversely impacted by any of the following, or by adverse publicity (whether or not valid) relating thereto: the failure to maintain high ethical, social, and environmental standards for all of our operations and activities; the failure to achieve any stated goals with respect to the nutritional profile of our products; our research and development efforts; or our environmental impact, including use of agricultural materials, packaging, energy use, and waste management. Moreover, the growing use of social and digital media by consumers has greatly increased the speed and extent that information or misinformation and opinions can be shared. Failure to comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal controls or to provide accurate and timely financial information could also hurt our reputation. Damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence in our products for any of these or other reasons could result in decreased demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation.. If we fail to comply with the many laws applicable to our business, we may face lawsuits or incur significant fines and penalties.. Our business is subject to a variety of governmental laws and regulations, including food and drug laws, environmental laws, laws related to advertising and marketing practices, accounting standards, taxation requirements, competition laws, employment laws, data privacy laws, and anti-corruption laws, among others, in and outside of the United States. Our facilities and products are subject to many laws and regulations administered by the United States Department of Agriculture, the Federal Food and Drug Administration, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and other federal, state, local, and foreign governmental agencies relating to the processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, labeling, quality, and safety of food products, the health and safety of our employees, and the protection of the environment. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to lawsuits, administrative penalties, and civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, and recalls of our products. Our operations are also subject to extensive and increasingly stringent regulations administered by the Environmental Protection Agency, which pertain to the discharge of materials into the environment and the handling and disposition of wastes. Failure to comply with these regulations can have serious consequences, including civil and administrative penalties and negative publicity. Changes in applicable laws or regulations or evolving interpretations thereof, including increased government regulations to limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions as a result of concern over climate change, may result in increased compliance costs, capital expenditures, and other financial obligations for us, which could affect our profitability or impede the production or distribution of our products, which could affect our net operating revenues.. 10. We are increasingly dependent on information technology, and potential disruption, cyber attacks, security problems, and expanding social media vehicles present new risks.. We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit, and store electronic and financial information, to manage and support a variety of business processes and activities, and to comply with regulatory, legal, and tax requirements. Our information technology systems, some of which are dependent on services provided by third parties, may be vulnerable to damage, interruption, or shutdown due to any number of causes outside of our control such as catastrophic events, natural disasters, fires, power outages, systems failures, telecommunications failures, security breaches, computer viruses, hackers, employee error or malfeasance, and other causes. Increased cybersecurity threats pose a potential risk to the security and viability of our information technology systems, as well as the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the data stored on those systems. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure and to maintain and protect the related automated and manual control processes, we could be subject to billing and collection errors, business disruptions, or damage resulting from security breaches. If any of our significant information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption, or shutdown, and our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, our product sales, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected, and we could experience delays in reporting our financial results. In addition, there is a risk of business interruption, violation of data privacy laws and regulations, litigation, and reputational damage from leakage of confidential information. Any interruption of our information technology systems could have operational, reputational, legal, and financial impacts that may have a material adverse effect on our business.. In addition, the inappropriate use of certain media vehicles could cause brand damage or information leakage. Negative posts or comments about the Company on any social networking web site could seriously damage its reputation. In addition, the disclosure of non-public company sensitive information through external media channels could lead to information loss. Identifying new points of entry as social media continues to expand presents new challenges. Any business interruptions or damage to our reputation could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations, and the market price of our common stock.. Additionally, we regularly move data across national borders to conduct our operations and, consequently, are subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the United States and other jurisdictions regarding privacy, data protection, and data security, including those related to the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer, and security of personal data. There is significant uncertainty with respect to compliance with such privacy and data protection laws and regulations, including the European Union General Data Protection Regulation, because they are continuously evolving and developing and may be interpreted and applied differently from country to country and may create inconsistent or conflicting requirements.. We rely on our management team and other key personnel.. We depend on the skills, working relationships, and continued services of key personnel, including our experienced management team. In addition, our ability to achieve our operating goals depends on our ability to identify, hire, train, and retain qualified individuals. We compete with other companies both within and outside of our industry for talented personnel, and we may lose key personnel or fail to attract, train, and retain other talented personnel. Any such loss or failure could adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results.. In particular, our continued success will depend in part on our ability to retain the talents and dedication of key employees. If key employees terminate their employment, or if an insufficient number of employees is retained to maintain effective operations, our business activities may be adversely affected and our management team's attention may be diverted. In addition, we may not be able to locate suitable replacements for any key employees who leave, or offer employment to potential replacements on reasonable terms, all of which could adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results.. Our existing and future debt may limit cash flow available to invest in the ongoing needs of our business and could prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations.. As of May 27, 2018, we had a substantial amount of debt, including approximately $2.9 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes. We have the ability under our existing revolving credit facility to incur substantial additional debt. Our level of debt could have important consequences. For example, it could:. • make it more difficult for us to make payments on our debt;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of debt service, reducing. 11. the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes;. • increase our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions;. • limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to enable us to react to changes in our business; or. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to businesses in our industry that have less debt.. Additionally, any failure to meet required payments on our debt, or failure to comply with any covenants in the instruments governing our debt, could result in an event of default under the terms of those instruments and a downgrade to our credit ratings. A downgrade in our credit ratings would increase our borrowing costs and could affect our ability to issue commercial paper. In the event of a default, the holders of our debt could elect to declare all the amounts outstanding under such instruments to be due and payable. Any default under the agreements governing our debt and the remedies sought by the holders of such debt could render us unable to pay principal and interest on our debt.. Impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other intangibles could result in the incurrence of impairment charges and negatively impact our net worth.. As of May 27, 2018, we had goodwill of $4.5 billion and other intangibles of $1.3 billion. The net carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date (or subsequent impairment date, if applicable). The net carrying value of other intangibles represents the fair value of trademarks, customer relationships, and other acquired intangibles as of the acquisition date (or subsequent impairment date, if applicable), net of accumulated amortization. Goodwill and other acquired intangibles expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated by management at least annually for impairment. Amortized intangible assets are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amounts of these assets may not be recoverable. Impairments to goodwill and other intangible assets may be caused by factors outside our control, such as the inability to quickly replace lost co-manufacturing business, increasing competitive pricing pressures, lower than expected revenue and profit growth rates, changes in industry EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) multiples, changes in discount rates based on changes in cost of capital (interest rates, etc.), or the bankruptcy of a significant customer and could result in the incurrence of impairment charges and negatively impact our net worth.. Our results could be adversely impacted as a result of increased pension, labor, and people-related expenses.. Inflationary pressures and any shortages in the labor market could increase labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. Our labor costs include the cost of providing employee benefits in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions, including pension, health and welfare, and severance benefits. Changes in interest rates, mortality rates, health care costs, early retirement rates, investment returns, and the market value of plan assets can affect the funded status of our defined benefit plans and cause volatility in the future funding requirements of the plans. A significant increase in our obligations or future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows from operations. Additionally, the annual costs of benefits vary with increased costs of health care and the outcome of collectively-bargained wage and benefit agreements.. Climate change, or legal, regulatory, or market measures to address climate change, may negatively affect our business and operations.. There is growing concern that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns, and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. In the event that such climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products, such as corn, wheat, and potatoes. We may also be subjected to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water as a result of such change, which could impact our manufacturing and distribution operations. In addition, natural disasters and extreme weather conditions may disrupt the productivity of our facilities or the operation of our supply chain. The increasing concern over climate change also may result in more regional, federal, and/or global legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases. In the event that such regulation is enacted and is more aggressive than the sustainability measures that we are currently undertaking to monitor our emissions and improve our energy efficiency, we may experience significant increases in our costs of operation and delivery. In particular, increasing regulation of fuel emissions could substantially increase the distribution and supply chain costs associated with our products. As a result, climate change could negatively affect our business and operations.. 12. The termination or expiration of current co-manufacturing arrangements could reduce our sales volume and adversely affect our results of operations.. Our businesses periodically enter into co-manufacturing arrangements with manufacturers of products. The terms of these agreements vary but are generally for relatively short periods of time. Volumes produced under each of these agreements can fluctuate significantly based upon the product's life cycle, product promotions, alternative production capacity, and other factors, none of which are under our direct control. Our future ability to enter into co-manufacturing arrangements is not guaranteed, and a decrease in current co-manufacturing levels could have a significant negative impact on sales volume.. Ardent Mills may not achieve the benefits that are anticipated from the joint venture.. The benefits that are expected to result from our Ardent Mills joint venture will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated cost synergies in the transaction, Ardent Mills' ability to successfully integrate the ConAgra Mills and Horizon Milling businesses and its ability to successfully manage the joint venture on a going-forward basis. It is not certain that we will realize these benefits at all, and if we do, it is not certain how long it will take to achieve these benefits. If, for example, we are unable to achieve the anticipated cost savings, or if there are unforeseen integration costs, or if Ardent Mills is unable to operate the joint venture smoothly in the future, the financial performance of the joint venture may be negatively affected.. As we outsource certain functions, we become more dependent on the third parties performing those functions.. As part of a concerted effort to achieve cost savings and efficiencies, we have entered into agreements with third-party service providers under which we have outsourced certain information systems, sales, finance, accounting, and other functions, and we may enter into managed services agreements with respect to other functions in the future. If any of these third-party service providers do not perform according to the terms of the agreements, or if we fail to adequately monitor their performance, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings or we may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers, and our reputation could be harmed. Depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business interruption, damage or disruption of information technology systems, processing inefficiencies, the loss of or damage to intellectual property or non-public company sensitive information through security breaches or otherwise, effects on financial reporting, litigation or remediation costs, or damage to our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, if we transition functions to one or more new, or among existing, external service providers, we may experience challenges that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our intellectual property rights, including our trademarks, licensing agreements, trade secrets, patents, and copyrights, are a significant and valuable aspect of our business. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights by pursuing remedies available to us under trademark, copyright, trade secret, and patent laws, as well as entering into licensing, third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and policing of third-party misuses of our intellectual property. If we fail to adequately protect the intellectual property rights we have now or may acquire in the future, or if there occurs any change in law or otherwise that serves to reduce or remove the current legal protections of our intellectual property, then our financial results could be materially and adversely affected.. Certain of our intellectual property rights, including the P.F. Chang's®, Bertolli®, Del Monte®, and Libby's® trademarks, are owned by third parties and licensed to us, and others, such as Alexia®, are owned by us and licensed to third parties. While many of these licensing arrangements are perpetual in nature, others must be periodically renegotiated or renewed pursuant to the terms of such licensing arrangement. If in the future we are unable to renew such a licensing arrangement pursuant to its terms and conditions, or if we fail to renegotiate such a licensing arrangement, then our financial results could be materially and adversely affected.. There is also a risk that other parties may have intellectual property rights covering some of our brands, products, or technology. If any third parties bring a claim of intellectual property infringement against us, we may be subject to costly and time-consuming litigation, diverting the attention of management and our employees. If we are unsuccessful in defending against such claims, we may be subject to, among other things, significant damages, injunctions against development and sale of certain products, or we may be required to enter into costly licensing agreements, any of which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. 13. Risks Relating to our Spinoff of Lamb Weston. We may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from the Spinoff.. In the second quarter of fiscal 2017, the Company completed the announced Spinoff of Lamb Weston. Although we believe that separating the Lamb Weston business from the Company will provide financial, operational, managerial, and other benefits to us and our stockholders, the Spinoff may not provide such results on the scope, scale, or timeline we anticipate, and we may not realize the intended benefits of the Spinoff. In addition, we incurred one-time costs in connection with the Spinoff that may negate some of the benefits we expect to achieve. If we do not realize these assumed benefits, we could suffer a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, our operational and financial profile changed upon the separation of the Lamb Weston business from the Company. As a result, the diversification of our revenue sources diminished, and our results of operations, cash flows, working capital, and financing requirements may be subject to increased volatility as a result.. We may be exposed to claims and liabilities or incur operational difficulties as a result of the Spinoff.. The Spinoff continues to involve a number of risks, including, among other things, certain indemnification risks and risk associated with the provision of transitional services. In connection with the Spinoff, we entered into a separation and distribution agreement and various other agreements (including a transition services agreement, a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement, and a trademark license agreement), which we refer to as the Lamb Weston agreements. The Lamb Weston agreements govern the Spinoff and the relationship between the two companies going forward. They also provide for the performance of services by each company for the benefit of the other for a period of time.. The Lamb Weston agreements provide for indemnification obligations designed to make Lamb Weston financially responsible for certain liabilities that may exist relating to its business activities, whether incurred prior to or after the distribution, including any pending or future litigation. It is possible that a court would disregard the allocation agreed to between us and Lamb Weston and require us to assume responsibility for obligations allocated to Lamb Weston. Third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of these liabilities or obligations, and the indemnity rights we have under the separation and distribution agreement may not be sufficient to fully cover all of these liabilities and obligations. Even if we are successful in obtaining indemnification, we may have to bear costs temporarily. In addition, our indemnity obligations to Lamb Weston may be significant. These risks could negatively affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. In addition, certain of the Lamb Weston agreements provide for the performance of services by each company for the benefit of the other for a period of time. As such, there is continued risk that management's and our employees' attention will be significantly diverted by the provision of transitional services. The Lamb Weston agreements could also lead to disputes over rights to certain shared property and rights and over the allocation of costs and revenues for products and operations. If Lamb Weston is unable to satisfy its obligations under these agreements, including its indemnification obligations, we could incur losses. Our inability to effectively manage separation activities and related events could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. The Spinoff could result in substantial tax liability.. The Spinoff is intended to qualify for tax-free treatment to the Company and its stockholders under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which we refer to as the Code. Completion of the Spinoff was conditioned upon, among other things, our receipt of an opinion from our tax advisors that the distribution of shares of Lamb Weston in the Spinoff will qualify as tax-free to Lamb Weston, the Company, and our stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) and related provisions of the Code. The opinion relied on, among other things, various assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by the Company and Lamb Weston. If such assumptions or representations are inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, the conclusions reached by such advisor in its opinion could be jeopardized. The opinion is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service, which we refer to as the IRS, or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the IRS or the courts will not challenge the qualification of the Spinoff as a transaction under Sections 355 and 368(a) of the Code or that any such challenge would not prevail.. If the Spinoff is determined to be taxable, the Company and its stockholders could incur significant tax liabilities, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. 14. Risks Relating to our Planned Acquisition of Pinnacle. Our planned acquisition of Pinnacle may not occur at all, may not occur in the expected time frame, or may involve the divestiture of certain businesses, which may negatively affect the trading prices of our stock and our future business and financial results.. On June 26, 2018, we entered into a definitive merger agreement with Pinnacle, pursuant to which, among other things and subject to the satisfaction or waiver of specified conditions, we will acquire all of the outstanding shares of Pinnacle common stock for cash and shares of Conagra Brands common stock. As a result of the planned acquisition of Pinnacle, Pinnacle shareholders are expected to own approximately 16% of the combined company.. Completion of the planned acquisition of Pinnacle is not assured and is subject to Pinnacle shareholder approval and the satisfaction or waiver of customary closing conditions, including, among others: the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended; and the receipt of other required antitrust approvals.. The planned acquisition of Pinnacle is subject to risks and uncertainties, including the risks that the necessary shareholder and regulatory approvals will not be obtained, the risk that the parties to the merger agreement may be required to divest certain businesses or assets in connection with the planned acquisition or that other closing conditions will not be satisfied. For example, in connection with obtaining the required regulatory approvals, the Company and/or Pinnacle may be required to divest assets of their respective businesses, subject to certain limitations set forth in the merger agreement (including that the Company shall not be required to divest any assets or business of the Company or Pinnacle that, in the aggregate, generated net sales in excess of $300.0 million during the most recently completed fiscal year). If the planned acquisition of Pinnacle  is not completed, if there are significant delays in completing the planned acquisition or if the planned acquisition involves the divestiture of certain businesses, it could negatively affect the trading prices of our common stock and our future business and financial results and could result in our failure to realize certain synergies relating to such acquisition.. Our obligation to complete the planned acquisition of Pinnacle is not subject to a financing condition, and we may be required to finance a portion of the purchase price at interest rates higher than currently expected.. Our obligation to complete the planned acquisition of Pinnacle is not subject to a financing condition. We have obtained committed financing from Goldman Sachs Bank USA and Goldman Sachs Lending Partners LLC, and expect to obtain permanent financing for the planned acquisition by accessing the capital markets, which may include the issuance of long-term debt and equity. If any of the banks in the committed financing facilities are unable to perform their commitments, we may be required to finance a portion of the purchase price of the planned acquisition at interest rates higher than currently expected.. We may not realize the growth opportunities and cost synergies that are anticipated from the planned acquisition of Pinnacle.. The benefits that are expected to result from the planned acquisition of Pinnacle will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities and $215 million in cost synergies as a result of the planned acquisition. Our success in realizing these growth opportunities and cost synergies, and the timing of this realization, depends on whether the Company or Pinnacle are required to divest assets of their respective business and on the successful integration of Pinnacle. There is a significant degree of difficulty and management distraction inherent in the process of integrating an acquisition as sizable as Pinnacle. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, our and Pinnacle's activities. Members of our senior management may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to this integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our company, service existing customers, attract new customers, and develop new products or strategies. If senior management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer. There can be no assurance that we will successfully or cost-effectively integrate Pinnacle. The failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. 15. Even if we are able to integrate Pinnacle successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the growth opportunities and cost synergies that we currently expect from this integration, and we cannot guarantee that these benefits will be achieved within anticipated time frames or at all. For example, we may not be able to eliminate duplicative costs. Moreover, we may incur substantial expenses in connection with the integration of Pinnacle. While it is anticipated that certain expenses will be incurred to achieve cost synergies, such expenses are difficult to estimate accurately, and may exceed current estimates. Accordingly, the benefits from the planned acquisition may be offset by costs incurred to, or delays in, integrating the businesses.. We will incur a substantial amount of debt to complete the planned acquisition of Pinnacle. To service our debt, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. We also depend on the business of our subsidiaries to satisfy our cash needs. If we cannot generate the required cash, we may not be able to make the necessary payments required under our indebtedness.. At May 27, 2018, we had total debt of approximately $3.8 billion. We have the ability under our existing credit facilities to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, and we plan to incur significant additional indebtedness if we complete the planned acquisition of Pinnacle. In connection with the acquisition, we expect to incur up to $8.3 billion of long-term debt, including for the payment of the cash portion of the merger consideration, the repayment of Pinnacle debt, the refinancing of certain Conagra debt, and the payment of related fees and expenses. Our ability to make payments on our debt, fund our other liquidity needs, and make planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our historical financial results have been, and we anticipate that our future financial results will be, subject to fluctuations. Our ability to generate cash, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot guarantee that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from our operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to make payments of our debt, fund other liquidity needs, and make planned capital expenditures.. The degree to which we are currently leveraged and will be leveraged following the completion of the planned acquisition could have important consequences for shareholders. For example, it could:. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of debt service, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes;. • increase our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions;. • limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to enable us to react to changes in our business; or. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to businesses in our industry that have less debt.. Additionally, any failure to comply with covenants in the instruments governing our debt could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us.. A significant portion of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to generate sufficient cash flow for our needs is dependent to some extent on the earnings of our subsidiaries and the payment of those earnings to us in the form of dividends, loans, or advances and through repayment of loans or advances from us. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities. Our subsidiaries have no obligation to pay any amounts due on our debt or to provide us with funds to meet our cash flow needs, whether in the form of dividends, distributions, loans, or other payments. In addition, any payment of dividends, loans, or advances by our subsidiaries could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions. Payments to us by our subsidiaries will also be contingent upon our subsidiaries' earnings and business considerations. Our right to receive any assets of any of our subsidiaries upon their liquidation or reorganization will be effectively subordinated to the claims of that subsidiary's creditors, including trade creditors. In addition, even if we are a creditor of any of our subsidiaries, our rights as a creditor would be subordinate to any security interest in the assets of our subsidiaries and any indebtedness of our subsidiaries senior to that held by us. Finally, changes in the laws of foreign jurisdictions in which we operate may adversely affect the ability of some of our foreign subsidiaries to repatriate funds to us."
