[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our government contracts are subject to termination rights, audits and investigations, which, if exercised,. could negatively impact our reputation and reduce our ability to compete for new contracts.. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from contracts with U.S. federal, state and local governments and their agencies, and some of our revenues are derived from contracts with foreign governments and their agencies. Government entities typically finance projects through appropriated funds. While these projects are often planned and executed as multi-year projects, government entities usually reserve the right to change the scope of or terminate these projects for lack of approved funding and/or at their convenience. Changes in government or political developments, including budget deficits, shortfalls or uncertainties, government spending reductions (e.g., Congressional sequestration of funds under the Budget Control Act of 2011) or other debt or funding constraints, such as those recently experienced in the United States and Europe, could result in lower governmental sales and in our projects being reduced in price or scope or terminated altogether, which also could limit our recovery of incurred costs, reimbursable expenses and profits on work completed prior to the termination. Additionally, if the government discovers improper or illegal activities or contractual non-compliance (including improper billing), we may be subject to various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from doing business with the government. Any resulting penalties or sanctions could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, government contracts are generally subject to audits and investigations by government agencies. If the government finds that we inappropriately charged any costs to a contract, the costs are not reimbursable or, if already reimbursed, the cost must be refunded to the government. Further, the negative publicity that could arise from any such penalties, sanctions or findings in such audits or investigations could have an adverse effect on our reputation in the industry and reduce our ability to compete for new contracts and could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We derive significant revenue and profit from commercial and government contracts awarded through competitive bidding processes, including renewals, which can impose substantial costs on us, and we will not achieve revenue and profit objectives if we fail to accurately and effectively bid on such projects.. Many of these contracts are extremely complex and require the investment of significant resources in order to prepare accurate bids and proposals. Competitive bidding imposes substantial costs and presents a number of risks, including: (i) the substantial cost and managerial time and effort that we spend to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may or may not be awarded to us; (ii) the need to estimate accurately the resources and costs that will be required to implement and service any contracts we are awarded, sometimes in advance of the final  determination of their full scope and design; (iii) the expense and delay that may arise if our competitors protest or challenge awards made to us pursuant to competitive bidding and the risk that such protests or challenges could result in the requirement to resubmit bids and in the termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contracts; and (iv) the opportunity cost of not bidding on and winning other contracts we might otherwise pursue. If our competitors protest or challenge an award made to us on a government contract, the costs to defend such an award may be significant and could involve subsequent litigation that could take years to resolve.. Conduent Inc. 2017 Annual Report. 11. Table of Contents. Our ability to recover capital and other investments in connection with our contracts is subject to risk.. In order to attract and retain large outsourcing contracts, we sometimes make significant capital and other investments to enable us to perform our services under those contracts, such as purchases of information technology equipment, facility costs, labor resources and costs incurred to develop and implement software. The net book value of certain assets recorded, including a portion of our intangible assets, could be impaired, and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected in the event of the early termination of all or a part of such a contract or a reduction in volumes and services thereunder for reasons such as a customer's or client's merger or acquisition, divestiture of assets or businesses, business failure or deterioration or a customer's or client's exercise of contract termination rights.. We rely to a significant extent on third-party providers, such as subcontractors, a relatively small number of primary software vendors, utility providers and network providers; if they cannot deliver or perform as expected or if our relationships with them are terminated or otherwise change, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. Our ability to service our customers and clients and deliver and implement solutions depends to a large extent on third-party providers such as subcontractors, a relatively small number of primary software vendors, software application developers, utility providers and network providers meeting their obligations to us and our expectations in a timely, quality manner. Our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected and we might incur significant additional liabilities if any of our third-party providers do not meet these obligations or our or our clients' expectations or if they terminate or refuse to renew their relationships with us or were to offer their products to us with less advantageous prices and other terms than we previously had.. Failure to deliver on our contractual obligations properly and on time could materially adversely affect our. results of operations and financial condition.. Our business model depends in large part on our ability to retain existing and attract new work from our base of existing clients, as well as on relationships we develop with our clients so that we can understand our clients' needs and deliver solutions and services that are tailored to meet those needs. In order for our business to grow, we must successfully manage the provision of services under our contracts. If a client is not satisfied with the quality of work performed by us or a subcontractor, or with the type of services or solutions delivered, then we could incur additional costs to address the situation, the profitability of that work might be impaired and the client's dissatisfaction with our services could damage our ability to obtain additional work from that client or obtain new work from other potential clients. In particular, many of our contracts with non-government clients may be terminated by the client, without cause, upon specified advance notice, so clients who are not satisfied might seek to terminate existing contracts prior to their scheduled expiration date, which may result in our inability to fully recover our up-front investments. In addition, clients could direct future business to our competitors. We could also trigger contractual credits to clients or a contractual default. Failure to properly transition new clients to our systems, properly budget transition costs or accurately estimate contract operational costs could result in delays in our contract performance, trigger service level penalties, impair fixed or intangible assets or result in contract profit margins that do not meet our expectations or our historical profit margins.. In addition, we incur significant expenditures for the development and construction of system software platforms needed to support our clients' needs. Our failure to fully understand client requirements or implement the appropriate operating systems or databases or solutions which enable the use of other supporting software may delay the project and result in cost overruns or potential impairment of the related software platforms, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We face significant competition and our failure to compete successfully could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. To remain competitive, we must develop services and applications; periodically enhance our existing offerings; remain cost efficient; and attract and retain key personnel and management. If we are unable to compete successfully, we could lose market share and important customers to our competitors and that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Conduent Inc. 2017 Annual Report. 12. Table of Contents. Our significant indebtedness could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We have and will continue to have a significant amount of debt and other obligations. Our substantial debt and other obligations could have important consequences. For example, it could (i) increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; (ii) limit our ability to obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate requirements; (iii) require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to service debt and other obligations thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows from operations for other purposes; (iv) limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate; (v) place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and (vi) become due and payable upon a change in control. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, these related risks could increase.. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including the debt incurred in connection with our spin-off, as well as any future debt that we may incur, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future from operations, financings or asset sales. Our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control.. The terms of our indebtedness may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to incur debt that we may need to fund initiatives in response to changes in our business, the industries in which we operate, the economy and governmental regulations.. The terms of our indebtedness include a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries and limit our ability to engage in actions that may be in our long-term best interests. These may restrict our and our subsidiaries' ability to take some or all of the following actions:. • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or sell disqualified or preferred stock;. • pay dividends on, make distributions in respect of, repurchase or redeem, capital stock;. • make investments or acquisitions;. • sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of certain assets, including accounts receivable;. • create liens;. • enter into sale/leaseback transactions;. • enter into agreements restricting the ability to pay dividends or make other intercompany transfers;. • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our or our subsidiaries' assets;. • enter into transactions with affiliates;. • prepay, repurchase or redeem certain kinds of indebtedness;. • issue or sell stock of our subsidiaries; and/or. • significantly change the nature of our business.. As a result of all of these restrictions, we may be:. • limited in how we conduct our business and pursue our strategy; unable to raise additional debt financing to operate during general economic or business downturns; or. • unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities.. A breach of any of these covenants, if applicable, could result in an event of default under the terms of this indebtedness. If an event of default occurs, the lenders would have the right to accelerate the repayment of such debt and the event of default or acceleration may result in the acceleration of the repayment of any other of our debt to which a cross-default or cross-acceleration provision applies. Furthermore, the lenders of this indebtedness may require that we pledge our assets as collateral as security for our repayment obligations. If we were unable to repay any amount of this indebtedness when due and payable, the lenders could proceed against the collateral that secures this indebtedness. In the event our creditors accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay such indebtedness, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Conduent Inc. 2017 Annual Report. 13. Table of Contents. Our business is dependent on continued interest in outsourcing.. Our business and growth depend in large part on continued interest in outsourced business process services. Outsourcing means that an entity contracts with a third party, such as us, to provide business process services rather than perform such services in-house. There can be no assurance that this interest will continue, as organizations may elect to perform such services themselves and/or the business process outsourcing industry could move to an as-a-Service model, thereby eliminating traditional business process outsourcing tasks. A significant change in this interest in outsourcing could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, there can be no assurance that our cross-selling efforts will cause clients to purchase additional services from us or adopt a single-source outsourcing approach.. Our profitability is dependent upon our ability to obtain adequate pricing for our services and to improve our cost structure.. Our success depends on our ability to obtain adequate pricing for our services that will provide a reasonable return to our shareholders. Depending on competitive market factors, future prices we obtain for our services may decline from previous levels. If we are unable to obtain adequate pricing for our services, it could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our contracts are increasingly requiring tighter timelines for implementation as well as more stringent service level metrics. This makes the bidding process for new contracts much more difficult and requires us to adequately consider these requirements in the pricing of our services.. In order to meet the service requirements of our customers, which often includes 24/7 service, and to optimize our employee cost base, including our back-office support, we often locate our delivery service and back-office support centers in lower-cost locations, including several developing countries. Concentrating our centers in these locations presents a number of operational risks, many of which are beyond our control, including the risks of political instability, natural disasters, safety and security risks, labor disruptions, excessive employee turnover and rising labor rates. Additionally, a change in the political environment in the United States or the adoption and enforcement of legislation and regulations curbing the use of such centers outside of the United States could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. These risks could impair our ability to effectively provide services to our customers and keep our costs aligned to our associated revenues and market requirements.. Our ability to sustain and improve profit margins is dependent on a number of factors, including our ability to continue to improve the cost efficiency of our operations through such programs as robotic process automation, to absorb the level of pricing pressures on our services through cost improvements and to successfully complete information technology initiatives. If any of these factors adversely materialize or if we are unable to achieve and maintain productivity improvements through restructuring actions or information technology initiatives, our ability to offset labor cost inflation and competitive price pressures would be impaired, each of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights which could adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition.. We rely heavily on the use of intellectual property. We do not own a significant portion of the software that we use to run our business; instead we license this software from a small number of primary vendors. If these vendors assert claims that we or our clients are infringing on their software or related intellectual property, we could incur substantial costs to defend these claims, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if any of our vendors' infringement claims are ultimately successful, our vendors could require us to (i) cease selling or using products or services that incorporate the challenged software or technology, (ii) obtain a license or additional licenses from our vendors or (iii) redesign our services which rely on the challenged software or technology. In addition, we may be exposed to claims for monetary damages. If we are unsuccessful in defending an infringement claim and our vendors require us to initiate any of the above actions, or we are required to pay monetary damages, then such actions could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Conduent Inc. 2017 Annual Report. 14. Table of Contents. We are subject to laws of the United States and foreign jurisdictions relating to individually identifiable information and personal health information, and failure to comply with those laws, whether or not inadvertent, could subject us to legal actions and negatively impact our operations.. We receive, process, transmit and store information relating to identifiable individuals, both in our role as a service provider and as an employer. As a result, we are subject to numerous United States (both federal and state) and foreign jurisdiction laws and regulations designed to protect both individually identifiable information as well as personal health information, including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended (\"HIPAA\") and the HIPAA regulations governing, among other things, the privacy, security and electronic transmission of individually identifiable health information, and the European Union Directive on Data Protection (Directive 95/46/EC). The EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) replaces the Data Protection Directive 95/46/EC (with an enforcement date of May 25, 2018) and is designed to harmonize data privacy laws across Europe, to protect and empower all EU citizens data privacy, to reshape the way organizations across the region approach data privacy and will have a significant impact on how we process and handle certain data. Other United States (both federal and state) and foreign jurisdiction laws apply to our processing of individually identifiable information and these laws have been subject to frequent changes, and new legislation in this area may be enacted at any time. For example, the invalidation of the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor regime and the emerging GDPR will require us to implement alternative mechanisms in order for some of our data flows from Europe to the United States to comply with applicable law. Changes to existing laws, introduction of new laws in this area or failure to comply with existing laws that are applicable to us may subject us to, among other things, additional costs or changes to our business practices, liability for monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity, restrictions on our ability to obtain and process information and allegations by our customers and clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations, any of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to laws of the United States and foreign jurisdictions relating to processing certain financial. transactions, including payment card transactions and debit or credit card transactions, and failure to comply with those laws, whether or not inadvertent, could subject us to legal actions and materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We process, support and execute financial transactions, and disburse funds, on behalf of both government and commercial customers, often in partnership with financial institutions. This activity includes receiving debit and credit card information, processing payments for and due to our customers and disbursing funds on payment or debit cards to payees of our customers. As a result, we are subject to numerous United States (both federal and state) and foreign jurisdiction laws and regulations, including the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, as amended, the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970 (commonly known as the Bank Secrecy Act), as amended, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (including the so-called Durbin Amendment), as amended, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (also known as the Financial Modernization Act of 1999), as amended, and the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism (USA PATRIOT ACT) Act of 2001, as amended. Other United States (both federal and state) and foreign jurisdiction laws apply to our processing of certain financial transactions and related support services. These laws are subject to frequent changes, and new statutes and regulations in this area may be enacted at any time. Changes to existing laws, introduction of new laws in this area or failure to comply with existing laws that are applicable to us may subject us to, among other things, additional costs or changes to our business practices, liability for monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity, restrictions on our ability to process and support financial transactions and allegations by our customers, partners and clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations. Any of these could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Conduent Inc. 2017 Annual Report. 15. Table of Contents. Our data systems, information systems and network infrastructure may be subject to hacking or other cyber security threats and other service interruptions, which could expose us to liability, impair our reputation or temporarily render us unable to fulfill our service obligations under our contracts.. We are a leading provider of business processing services concentrated in transaction-intensive processing, analytics and automation. We act as a trusted business partner in both front office and back office platforms, providing interactions on a substantial scale with our customers and other third parties. Our customers include global commercial clients and government clients who depend upon our operational efficiency, non-interruption of service, and accuracy and security of information. We also use third party providers such as subcontractors, software vendors, utility providers and network providers, upon whom we rely for our business processing services, to deliver uninterrupted, secure service. As part of our business processing services we also develop system software platforms necessary to support our customers' needs, with significant ongoing investment in developing and operating customer-appropriate operating systems, data bases and system software solutions. We also receive, process, transmit and store substantial volumes of information relating to identifiable individuals, both in our role as a service provider and as an employer, and we are subject to numerous laws, rules and regulations in the United States (both federal and state) and foreign jurisdictions designed to protect both individually identifiable information as well as personal health information. We also receive, process and implement financial transactions, and disburse funds, on behalf of both commercial and government customers, which activity includes receiving debit and credit card information to process payments due to our customers as well as disbursing funds to payees of our customers. As a result of these and other business processing services, the integrity, security, accuracy and non-interruption of our systems and information technology and that of our third-party providers and our interfaces with our customers are extremely important to our business, operating results, growth, prospects and reputation.. We have implemented security systems and controls, both directly and with third-party subcontractors and service providers, with the intent of maintaining both the physical security of our facilities and the data security of our customers', clients' and suppliers' confidential information and information related to identifiable individuals (including payment card and debit and credit card information and health information) against unauthorized access through our information systems or by other electronic transmission or through the misdirection, theft or loss of physical media. These include, for example, the appropriate encryption of information. Despite such efforts, we are subject to breach of security systems which may result in unauthorized access to our facilities and those of our customers and/or the information we and our customers are trying to protect. Cyber security failure might be caused by computer hacking, malware, computer viruses, worms and other destructive software, \"cyber-attacks\" and other malicious activity, as well as natural disasters, power outages, terrorist attacks and similar events. Operational or business delays may also result from the disruption of network or information systems and subsequent remediation activities.. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access are constantly changing and becoming increasingly more sophisticated and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we or our third-party service providers may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement sufficient preventative measures. Hacking, malware, phishing, viruses and other \"cyber-attacks\" have become more prevalent, have occurred in our systems in the past, and may occur in our systems in the future. Although we have implemented and intend to continue to implement what we believe to be appropriate cyber practices and cyber security systems, these systems may prove to be inadequate and result in the disruption, failure, misappropriation or corruption of our network and information systems.. Additionally, with advances in computer capabilities and data protection requirements to address ongoing threats, we may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against potential security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches. Moreover, employee error or malfeasance, faulty password management or other irregularities may result in a defeat of our or our third-party service providers' security measures and a breach of our or our third-party service providers' information systems (whether digital, cloud-based or otherwise).. Conduent Inc. 2017 Annual Report. 16. Table of Contents. If unauthorized parties gain physical access to one of our or one of our third-party service providers' facilities or electronic access to our or one of our third-party service providers' information systems or such sensitive or confidential information is misdirected, lost or stolen during transmission or transport, any theft or misuse of such information could result in, among other things, unfavorable publicity and significant damage to our brand, governmental inquiry, oversight and possible regulatory action, difficulty in marketing our services, loss of existing and potential customers, allegations by our customers that we have not performed our contractual obligations, litigation by affected parties and possible financial obligations for substantial damages related to the theft or misuse of such information, any of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, a security breach could require us to devote significant management resources to address the problems created by the security breach and to expend significant additional resources to upgrade further the security measures that we employ to guard such personal information against \"cyber attacks\" and to maintain various systems and data centers for our customers. Often these systems and data centers must be maintained worldwide and on a 24/7 basis. Although we endeavor to ensure that there is adequate backup and maintenance of these systems and centers, we could experience service interruptions that could result in curtailed operations and loss of existing and potential customers, which could significantly reduce our revenues and profits in addition to significantly impairing our reputation. If our information systems and our back-up systems are damaged, breached or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim, each of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and diminish the value of our shares.. In addition, our and our customers' systems and networks are subject to continued threats of terrorism, which could disrupt our operations as well as disrupt the utilities and telecommunications infrastructure on which our business depends. To the extent any such disruptions were to occur, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. If we underestimate the scope of work or the costs of performance in our contracts, or we mis-perform our. contracts, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. In order to stay competitive in our industry, we must also keep pace with changing technologies and customer preferences. Many of our contracts require us to design, develop and implement new technological and operating systems for our customers. Many of these systems involve detailed and complex computer source code which must be created and integrated into a working system that meets contract specifications. The accounting for these contracts requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. To varying degrees, each contract type involves some risk that we could underestimate the costs and resources necessary to fulfill the contract. In each case, our failure to accurately estimate costs or the resources and technology needed to perform our contracts or to effectively manage and control our costs during the performance of our work could result, and in some instances has resulted, in reduced profits or in losses. In addition, in many of our contracts, we have complicated performance obligations, including, without limitation, designing and building new integrated computer systems or doing actuarial work for pension, medical and other plans with beneficiaries that can rely on future projection of obligations to determine appropriate levels of funding. These contracts carry potential financial penalties or could result in financial damages or exposures if we fail to properly perform those obligations and could result in our results of operations and financial condition being materially adversely affected.. Conduent Inc. 2017 Annual Report. 17. Table of Contents. If we are unable to collect our receivables for unbilled services, our results of operations and financial. condition could be materially adversely affected.. The profitability of certain of our large contracts depends on our ability to successfully obtain payment from our clients of the amounts they owe us for work performed. Actual losses on client balances could differ from current estimates and, as a result, may require adjustment of our receivables for unbilled services. Our receivables include long-term contracts and over the course of a long-term contract, our customers' financial condition may change such that their ability to pay their obligations, and our ability to collect our fees for services rendered, is adversely affected. Additionally, we may perform work for the federal, state and local governments, with respect to which we must file requests for equitable adjustment or claims with the proper agency to seek recovery in whole or in part, for out-of-scope work directed or caused by the government customer in support of its project, and the amounts of such recoveries may not meet our expectations or cover our costs. Timely collection of client balances also depends on our ability to complete our contractual commitments (for example, achieve specified milestones in percentage-of-completion contracts) and bill and collect our contracted revenues. If we are unable to meet our contractual requirements, we might experience delays in collection of and/or be unable to collect our client balances, and if this occurs, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. In addition, if we experience an increase in the time to bill and collect for our services, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. A decline in revenues from or a loss or failure of significant clients could materially adversely affect our. results of operations and financial condition.. Our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by the loss or failure of significant clients. Some of our clients are in business sectors which have experienced significant financial difficulties or consolidation, and/or the reduction of volumes or their inability to make payments to us, as a result of, among other things, their merger or acquisition, divestiture of assets or businesses, contract expiration, nonrenewal or early termination (including termination for convenience) or business or financial failure or deterioration. Economic and political conditions could affect our clients' businesses and the markets they serve.. We have non-recurring revenue, which subjects us to a risk that our revenues and cash flows from operations may fluctuate from period to period.. Revenue generated from our non-recurring services may fluctuate due to factors both within and outside of our control. Our mix of non-recurring and recurring revenues is impacted by acquisitions as well as growth in our non-recurring lines of business. There is less predictability and certainty in the timing and amount of revenues generated by our non-recurring services and, accordingly, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by the timing and amount of revenues generated from our non-recurring services.. The failure to obtain or maintain a satisfactory credit rating could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, borrowing costs, access to capital markets and ability to post surety or performance bonds to support clients' contracts.. Any future downgrades to our credit rating could negatively impact our ability to renew contracts with our existing clients, limit our ability to compete for new clients, result in increased premiums for surety or performance bonds to support our clients' contracts and/or result in a requirement that we provide collateral to secure our surety or performance bonds. Further, certain of our commercial outsourcing contracts provide that, in the event our credit ratings are downgraded to specified levels, the client may elect to terminate its contract with us and either pay a reduced termination fee or, in some limited instances, no termination fee. Such a credit rating downgrade could adversely affect these client relationships.. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our credit ratings. Any additional actual or anticipated downgrades of our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under review for a downgrade, may have a negative impact on our liquidity, capital position and access to capital markets.. Conduent Inc. 2017 Annual Report. 18. Table of Contents. A failure to attract and retain necessary technical personnel and qualified subcontractors could materially. adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Because we operate in intensely competitive markets, our success depends to a significant extent upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled and qualified technical personnel and to subcontract with qualified, competent subcontractors. If we fail to attract, train and retain sufficient numbers of qualified engineers, technical staff and sales and marketing representatives or are unable to contract with qualified, competent subcontractors, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Experienced and capable personnel in the services industry remain in high demand, and there is continual competition for their talents. Additionally, we may be required to increase our hiring in geographic areas outside of the United States, which could subject us to increased geopolitical and exchange rate risk. The loss of any key technical employee or the loss of a key subcontractor relationship could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Increases in the cost of telephone and data services or significant interruptions in such services could. materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our business is significantly dependent on telephone and data service provided by various local and long distance telephone and data service providers around the world. Accordingly, any disruption of these services could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have taken steps to mitigate our exposure to service disruptions by investing in redundant circuits, although there is no assurance that the redundant circuits would not also suffer disruption. Any inability to obtain telephone or data services at favorable rates could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Where possible, we have entered into long-term contracts with various providers to mitigate short-term rate increases and fluctuations. There is no obligation, however, for the vendors to renew their contracts with us, or to offer the same or lower rates in the future, and such contracts are subject to termination or modification for various reasons outside of our control. A significant increase in the cost of telephone or data services that is not recoverable through an increase in the price of our services could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, a number of our facilities are located in jurisdictions outside of the United States where the provision of utility services, including electricity and water, may not be consistently reliable, and while there are backup systems in many of our operating facilities, an extended outage of utility or network services could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We are a holding company and, therefore, may not be able to receive dividends or other payments in. needed amounts from our subsidiaries.. Our principal assets are the shares of capital stock and indebtedness of our subsidiaries. We rely on dividends, interest and other payments from these subsidiaries to meet our obligations for paying principal and interest on outstanding debt obligations, paying corporate expenses and, if determined by our Board, paying dividends to shareholders and repurchasing common shares. Certain of our subsidiaries are subject to regulatory requirements of the jurisdictions in which they operate or other restrictions that may limit the amounts that these subsidiaries can pay in dividends or other payments to us. No assurance can be given that there will not be further changes in law, regulatory actions or other circumstances that could restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us. In addition, due to differences in tax rates, repatriation of funds from certain countries into the United States could have unfavorable tax ramifications for us.. Conduent Inc. 2017 Annual Report. 19. Table of Contents. Our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by legal and. regulatory matters.. We are potentially subject to various contingent liabilities that are not reflected on our balance sheet, including those arising as a result of being involved in a variety of claims, lawsuits, investigations and proceedings concerning: securities law; governmental and non-governmental entity contracting, servicing and governmental entity procurement law; intellectual property law; environmental law; employment law; the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA); and other laws, regulations and contractual undertakings, as discussed under Note 13  -  Contingencies and Litigation in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Should developments in any of these matters cause a change in our determination as to an unfavorable outcome and result in the need to recognize a material accrual or materially increase an existing accrual, or should any of these matters result in an adverse judgment or be settled for significant amounts above any existing accruals, it could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition in the period or periods in which such change in determination, judgment or settlement occurs. There can be no assurances as to the favorable outcome of any claim, lawsuit, investigation or proceeding. It is possible that a resolution of one or more such proceedings could require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments, fines or penalties or to settle claims or proceedings, any of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. These proceedings could also result in reputational harm, criminal sanctions, consent decrees or orders preventing us from offering certain services, requiring a change in our business practices in costly ways or requiring development of non-infringing or otherwise altered products or technologies. In addition, it can be very costly to defend litigation and these costs could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. See Note 13  -  Contingencies and Litigation to our Consolidated Financial Statements.. Our results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected by conditions abroad, including local economics, political environments, fluctuating foreign currencies and shifting regulatory schemes.. A portion of our revenues is generated from operations outside the United States. In addition, we maintain significant operations outside the United States. Our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, as well as by a number of other factors, including, without limitation, changes in economic conditions from country to country, changes in a country's political conditions, trade controls and protection measures, financial sanctions, licensing requirements, local tax issues, capitalization and other related legal matters. We generally hedge foreign currency denominated assets, liabilities and anticipated transactions primarily through the use of currency derivative contracts. The use of derivative contracts is intended to mitigate or reduce transactional level volatility in the results of foreign operations, but does not completely eliminate volatility. We do not hedge the translation effect of international revenues and expenses, which are denominated in currencies other than our U.S. parent functional currency, within our Consolidated Financial Statements. If we are unable to effectively hedge these risks, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. Conduent Inc. 2017 Annual Report. 20. Table of Contents. If we fail to successfully develop new service offerings, including new technology components, and protect our intellectual property rights, we may be unable to retain current customers and gain new customers and our revenues would decline.. The process of developing new service offerings, including new technology components, is inherently complex and uncertain. It requires accurate anticipation of customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends. We must make long-term investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether these investments will eventually result in service offerings that achieve customer acceptance and generate the revenues required to provide desired returns. For example, establishing internal automation processes to help us develop new service offerings will require significant up-front costs and resources, which, if not monetized effectively, could materially adversely affect our revenues. In addition, some of our service offerings rely on technologies developed by and licensed from third parties. We may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties at all or on reasonable terms, or such third parties may demand cross-licenses to our intellectual property. It is also possible that our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, allowing others to use our intellectual property to our competitive detriment. We also must ensure that all of our service offerings comply with both existing and newly enacted regulatory requirements in the countries in which they are sold. If we fail to accurately anticipate and meet our customers' needs through the development of new service offerings (including technology components) or if we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or if our new service offerings are not widely accepted or if our current or future service offerings fail to meet applicable worldwide regulatory requirements, we could lose market share and customers to our competitors and that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Risks related to the spin-off:. We may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from the spin-off.. We believe that, as an independent, publicly traded company, we will be able to, among other things, design and implement corporate strategies and policies that are targeted to our business, better focus our financial and operational resources on our specific business, create effective incentives for our management and employees that are more closely tied to our business performance, provide investors more flexibility and enable us to achieve alignment with a more natural shareholder base and implement and maintain a capital structure designed to meet our specific needs. However, as a result of separating from Xerox, we may be more susceptible to market fluctuations and other adverse events. As an independent entity, we have an arm's-length relationship with Xerox and we may not be able to obtain supplies from Xerox on terms as favorable to us as those we had as a wholly owned subsidiary of Xerox prior to the spin-off. As a smaller, independent company, Conduent has a narrower business focus and may be more vulnerable to changing market conditions as well as the risk of takeover by third  parties. In addition, we may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expected to achieve as an independent company in the time we expect, if at all. Furthermore, Xerox used to guarantee our and our subsidiaries' performance under certain services contracts and real estate leases. Following the spin-off, we expect that Conduent will provide such performance guarantees, and we may be unable to retain or renew contracts or real estate leases or a failure to renew such contracts or leases on favorable terms and conditions could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expected to achieve as an independent company, or do not achieve them in the time we expect, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. Conduent Inc. 2017 Annual Report. 21. Table of Contents. We may be unable to make, on a timely or cost-effective basis, the changes necessary to operate as an. independent, publicly traded company, and we may experience increased costs after the spin-off.. We had historically operated as part of Xerox's corporate organization, and Xerox had provided us with various corporate functions. Following the spin-off, Xerox has no obligation to provide us with assistance other than the transition services described under \"Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions  - Transition Services Agreement.\" These services do not include every service that we have received from Xerox in the past, and Xerox is only obligated to provide these services for limited periods following completion of the spin-off. Accordingly, following the spin-off, we have needed to provide internally or obtain from unaffiliated third parties the services we had received from Xerox. These services include senior management, legal, human resources, finance and accounting, treasury, information technology, marketing and communications, internal audit and other shared services, the effective and appropriate performance of which are critical to our operations. We may be unable to replace these services on terms and conditions as favorable as those we received from Xerox. Because our business had operated as part of the wider Xerox organization, we may incur additional costs that could adversely affect our business. If we fail to obtain the quality of services necessary to operate effectively or incur greater costs in obtaining these services, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. We have no recent operating history as an independent, publicly traded company, and our historical and pro forma financial data are not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved as an independent, publicly traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results.. We derived certain of the historical financial data included in this Annual Report from Xerox's consolidated financial statements, and this data does not necessarily reflect the results of operations and financial condition we would have achieved as an independent, publicly traded company during the periods presented, or those that we will achieve in the future. This is primarily because of the following factors:. • Prior to the spin-off, we operated as part of Xerox's broader corporate organization and Xerox performed various corporate functions for us, including, but not limited to, senior management, legal, human resources, finance and accounting, treasury, information technology, marketing and communications, internal audit and other shared services. Our historical financial data reflect allocations of corporate expenses from Xerox for these and similar functions. These allocations may not reflect the costs we have incurred and in the future will incur for similar services as an independent, publicly traded company.. • We entered into transactions with Xerox that did not exist prior to the spin-off, such as Xerox's provision of transition services, which will cause us to incur new costs.. • Such historical financial data does not and in the future may not reflect changes that we have experienced and expect to experience in the future as a result of our separation from Xerox. As part of Xerox, we enjoyed certain benefits from Xerox's operating diversity, size, purchasing power, credit rating, borrowing leverage and available capital for investments. Many of our services contracts, particularly those for our transportation service offerings in our Public Sector business, require significant capital investments, and after the spin-off, we may not have access to the capital (from both internal and external sources) necessary to fund these services contracts. As an independent entity, we may be unable to purchase goods, services and technologies, such as insurance and health care benefits and computer software licenses, or access capital markets on terms as favorable to us as those we obtained as part of Xerox prior to the spin-off.. Following the spin-off, we are now responsible for the additional costs associated with being an independent, publicly traded company, including costs related to corporate governance, investor and public relations and public reporting. For additional information about our past financial performance and the basis of presentation of our financial statements, see \"Selected Historical Financial Data,\" \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and our historical financial statements and the notes thereto included in this annual report on Form 10-K.. Conduent Inc. 2017 Annual Report. 22. Table of Contents. We may have been able to receive better terms from unaffiliated third parties than the terms we receive in our agreements with Xerox.. We entered into agreements with Xerox related to our separation from Xerox, including the Separation and Distribution Agreement, Transition Services Agreement, Tax Matters Agreement, Employee Matters Agreement and any other agreements, while we were still part of Xerox. Accordingly, these agreements may not reflect terms that would have resulted from arm's-length negotiations among unaffiliated third parties. The terms of these agreements relate to, among other things, allocations of assets, liabilities, rights, indemnifications and other obligations between Xerox and us. We may have received better terms from third parties. See \"Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions - Agreements with Xerox.\". The spin-off could result in significant tax liability to Xerox and its shareholders.. Completion of the spin-off required Xerox's receipt of a written opinion of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP to the effect that the Distribution should qualify for non-recognition of gain and loss under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code (the \"Code\") and the receipt and continuing effectiveness and validity of the IRS Ruling.. The opinion of counsel did not address any U.S. state or local or foreign tax consequences of the spin-off. The opinion assumed that the spin-off was completed according to the terms of the Separation and Distribution Agreement and relied on the facts as stated in the Separation and Distribution Agreement, the Tax Matters Agreement, the other ancillary agreements, the Information Statement included in our registration statement on Form 10 and a number of other documents. In addition, the opinion was based on certain representations as to factual matters from, and certain covenants by, Xerox and us. The opinion cannot be relied on if any of the assumptions, representations or covenants are incorrect, incomplete or inaccurate or are violated in any material respect.. Xerox received an IRS ruling in connection with the spin-off (the \"IRS Ruling\"). The IRS Ruling relies on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from Xerox and us regarding the past and future conduct of Xerox's and our businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, Xerox may not be able to rely on the IRS Ruling. In addition, the IRS Ruling is not a comprehensive ruling from the IRS regarding all aspects of the U.S. federal income tax consequences of the transactions.. Accordingly, notwithstanding the opinion of counsel and the IRS Ruling, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not assert, or that a court would not sustain, a contrary position.. If the distribution in connection with the spin-off were determined not to qualify for non-recognition of gain and loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes, U.S. holders who received our common stock could be subject to tax. In this case, each U.S. holder who received our common stock in the distribution would generally, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, be treated as having received a distribution in an amount equal to the fair market value of our common stock received, which would generally result in (i) a taxable dividend to the U.S. holder to the extent of that U.S. holder's pro rata share of Xerox's current and accumulated earnings and profits; (ii) a reduction in the U.S. holder's basis (but not below zero) in Xerox common stock to the extent the amount received exceeds the shareholder's share of Xerox's earnings and profits; and (iii) a taxable gain from the exchange of Xerox common stock to the extent the amount received exceeds the sum of the U.S. holder's share of Xerox's earnings and profits and the U.S. holder's basis in its Xerox common stock.. We could have an indemnification obligation to Xerox if the Distribution were determined not to qualify for non-recognition treatment, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. If it were determined that the distribution in connection with the spin-off did not qualify for non-recognition of gain and loss under Section 355 of the Code, we could, under certain circumstances, be required to indemnify Xerox for the resulting taxes and related expenses. Any such indemnification obligation could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Conduent Inc. 2017 Annual Report. 23. Table of Contents. In addition, Section 355(e) of the Code generally creates a presumption that the distribution would be taxable to Xerox, but not to shareholders, if we or our shareholders were to engage in transactions that result in a 50% or greater change by vote or value in the ownership of our stock during the four-year period beginning on the date that begins two years before the date of the distribution, unless it were established that such transactions and the distribution were not part of a plan or series of related transactions giving effect to such a change in ownership. If the distribution were taxable to Xerox due to such a 50% or greater change in ownership of our stock, Xerox would recognize gain equal to the excess of the fair market value of our common stock distributed to Xerox shareholders over Xerox's tax basis in our common stock and we generally would be required to indemnify Xerox for the tax on such gain and related expenses. Any such indemnification obligation could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We agreed to numerous restrictions to preserve the non-recognition treatment of the Distribution, which may reduce our strategic and operating flexibility.. We agreed in the Tax Matters Agreement to covenants and indemnification obligations that address compliance with Section 355 of the Code. These covenants and indemnification obligations may limit our ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in new businesses or other transactions that may otherwise maximize the value of our business, and might discourage or delay a strategic transaction that our shareholders may consider favorable."
