[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Summary Risk Factors. You should read the following risk factors carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  While we believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition in the future.. Our actual incurred losses may be greater than our loss and loss adjustment expense reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Insurance companies' financial condition and results of operations depend upon their ability to accurately assess the potential losses and loss adjustment expenses under the terms of the insurance policies they underwrite.  Reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Rather, reserves represent an estimate of what the expected ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost, and the ultimate liability may be greater or less than the current estimate.  In the insurance industry, there is always the risk that reserves may prove inadequate as it is possible for insurance companies to underestimate the cost of claims.. We base our estimates on our assessment of known facts and circumstances, as well as estimates of future trends in claim severity, claim frequency, judicial theories of liability and other factors. These variables are affected by both internal and external events that could increase our exposure to losses, including changes in actuarial projections, claims handling procedures, inflation, severe weather, climate change, economic and judicial trends, and legislative changes. We continually monitor reserves using new information on reported claims and a variety of statistical techniques to update our current estimate.  Our estimates could prove to be inadequate, and this underestimation could have a material adverse effect on our financial strength.. Among the uncertainties we encounter in establishing our reserves for losses and related expenses in connection with our insurance businesses are as follows:. • When we write \"occurrence\" policies, we are obligated to pay covered claims, up to the contractually agreed amount, for any covered loss that occurs while the policy is in force. Accordingly, claims may be reported and develop many years after a policy has lapsed;. • Even when a claim is received (irrespective of whether the policy is a  \"claims-made\", which requires claims to be reported during the policy period, or an \"occurrence\" based form), it may take considerable time to fully appreciate the extent of the covered loss suffered by the insured and, consequently, estimates of loss associated with specific claims can increase over time;. • New theories of liability are enforced retroactively from time to time by courts;. • Volatility in the financial markets, economic events, weather events and other external factors may result in an increase in the number of claims and the severity of the claims reported. In addition, elevated inflationary conditions would, among other things, drive loss costs to increase;. • If claims became more frequent, even if we had no liability for those claims, the cost of evaluating these potential claims could escalate beyond the amount of the reserves we have established. If we enter new lines of business, or encounter new theories of claims liability, we may encounter an increase in claims frequency and greater claims handling costs than we had anticipated; and. • Estimation of \"IBNR\" losses is a complex and inherently uncertain process which involves a considerable degree of judgment and expertise, which adds to the overall difficulty of estimating loss reserves.. If any of our insurance reserves should prove to be inadequate for the reasons discussed above, or for any other reason, we will be required to increase reserves, resulting in a reduction in our net income and shareholders' equity in the period in which the deficiency is identified. Future loss experience substantially in excess of established reserves could also have a material adverse effect on future earnings and liquidity and financial rating, which would affect our ability to attract business and could affect our ability to retain or hire qualified personnel.. 12. Severe weather conditions and other catastrophes are inherently unpredictable and may have a material adverse effect on our financial results and financial condition.. Our property insurance business is exposed to the risk of severe weather conditions and other catastrophes. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including natural events such as hurricanes, winter weather, tornadoes, windstorms, earthquakes, hailstorms, severe thunderstorms, fires and other non-natural events such as explosions or riots.. The incidence and severity of catastrophes and severe weather conditions are inherently unpredictable. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Severe weather conditions and catastrophes can cause greater losses in our property lines and cause our liquidity and financial condition to deteriorate. In addition, our inability to obtain reinsurance coverage at reasonable rates and in amounts adequate to mitigate the risks associated with severe weather conditions and other catastrophes could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operation.. Our investment portfolio is subject to significant market and credit risks, which could result in an adverse impact on our financial conditions or results of operations.. Our results of operations depend, in part, on the performance of our investment portfolio.  We seek to hold a diversified portfolio of investments that is managed by professional investment advisory management firms in accordance with our investment policy and routinely reviewed by our Investment Committee.  However, our investments are subject to general economic conditions and market risks as well as risks inherent to particular securities.. The value of our investment portfolio is subject to the risk that certain investments may default or become impaired due to deterioration in the financial condition of one or more issuers of the securities held, or due to deterioration in the financial condition of an insurer that guarantees an issuer's payments of such investments.  Such defaults and impairments could reduce our net investment income and result in realized investment losses.. Risks for all types of securities are managed through application of our investment policy, which establishes investment parameters that include but are not limited to maximum percentages of investment in certain types of securities and minimum levels of credit quality, which we believe are within guidelines established by the NAIC and various state insurance departments, as applicable.. A severe economic downturn could cause us to incur substantial realized and unrealized investment losses in future periods, which would have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, debt and financial strength ratings, Insurance Company Subsidiaries' capital liquidity and ability to access capital markets.. Although we seek to preserve our capital, we cannot be certain that our investment objectives will be achieved, and results may vary substantially over time.  In addition, although we seek to employ investment strategies that are not correlated with our insurance exposures, losses in our investment portfolio may occur at the same time as underwriting losses and, therefore, exacerbate the adverse effect of the losses on us.. Our ability to meet ongoing cash requirements, service debt and pay dividends may be limited by our holding company structure and regulatory constraints restricting dividends or other distributions by our Insurance Company Subsidiaries.. We are a holding company that transacts the majority of our business through our Insurance Company Subsidiaries. Our ability to meet our obligations on our outstanding debt, and to pay our expenses and shareholder dividends, depends upon the dividend paying capacity of our Insurance Company Subsidiaries. We will be limited by the earnings of our Insurance Company Subsidiaries, and the distribution or other payment of such earnings to it in the form of dividends, loans, advances or the reimbursement of expenses. Payments of dividends to us by our Insurance Company Subsidiaries are subject to various business considerations and restricted by state insurance laws, including laws establishing minimum solvency and liquidity thresholds, and could be subject to revised restrictions in the future. The ability to pay ordinary and extraordinary dividends must be reviewed in relation to the impact on key financial measurement ratios, including RBC ratios. The Insurance Company Subsidiaries' ability to pay future dividends without advance regulatory approval is dependent upon maintaining a positive level of unassigned surplus.  As a result, at times, we may not be able to receive dividends from our Insurance Company Subsidiaries in amounts necessary to meet our debt obligations, to pay shareholder dividends on our capital stock or to pay corporate expenses. Therefore, the inability of our Insurance Company Subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. 13. The price of our common stock may be volatile and limited public float and low trading volume for our shares may have an adverse impact on the share price or make it difficult to liquidate.. The trading price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance.  These fluctuations could be significant and could cause a loss in the amount invested in our shares of common stock.  Factors that could cause fluctuation are listed in the \"Industry Risks\" and \"Risks Related to our Business\" listed above.. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for insurance companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies.  Securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the overall market and in the market price of a company's securities.  This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs, divert our management's attention and resources, and harm our business, operating results, and financial condition.. As a result of these factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above their purchase price or may not be able to resell them at all.  These market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance.  In addition, price volatility may be greater if the public float and the trading volume of our common stock remain low.. We may be adversely affected by interest rate changes.. Our investment portfolio is predominantly comprised of fixed income securities. These securities are sensitive to changes in interest rates.  An increase in interest rates typically reduces the fair market value of fixed income securities.  In addition, if interest rates decline, investment income earned from future investments in fixed income securities will be lower.  We generally hold our fixed income securities to maturity, so our interest rate exposure does not usually result in realized losses. However, as noted above, rising interest rates could result in a significant reduction of our book value.  A low investment yield environment could adversely impact our net earnings, as a result of fixed income securities maturing and being replaced with lower yielding securities which impact investing results.. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control including general economic conditions, governmental monetary policy, and political conditions.  As discussed above, fluctuations in interest rates may adversely impact our business. See \"Item 7A. Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risk\" for further discussion on interest rate risk.. A decline in our financial strength rating may result in a reduction of new or renewal business.. Participants in the insurance industry use ratings from independent ratings agencies, such as A.M. Best Company, Inc. (\"A.M. Best\"), Demotech, Inc. (\"Demotech\"), and Kroll Bond Rating Agency (\"Kroll\") as an important means of assessing the financial strength and quality of insurers.  In setting their ratings, A.M. Best, Demotech and Kroll utilize a quantitative and qualitative analysis of a company's balance sheet strength, operating performance and business profile.  These analyses include comparisons to peers and industry standards as well as assessments of operating plans, philosophy and management. For A.M. Best, the ratings range from A++, or superior, to F for in liquidation.  Demotech's ratings range from \"A\" (unsurpassed) to M (moderate).  Kroll's ratings range from AAA (extremely strong) to R (under regulatory supervision).   As of the date of this Form 10-K, A.M. Best has assigned financial strength ratings of B++ with a negative outlook to CIC (the fifth highest rating level out of sixteen rating levels) and B+ with a stable outlook for WPIC (the sixth highest out of sixteen).  A rating of B++ for CIC and a rating of B+ for WPIC means A.M. Best considers both companies to have a \"good\" ability to meet ongoing financial obligations.  Both CIC, WPIC are rated \"A\" by Demotech (the third highest rating level out of six rating levels) as of the date of this Form 10-K.  A financial stability rating of \"A\" from Demotech indicates \"exceptional\" financial stability related to maintaining surplus at an acceptable level.  Kroll has given CIC and WPIC an insurance financial strength rating of BBB+ with a stable outlook (fourth highest rating level out of eleven) as of the date of this Form 10-K.  A BBB+ rating indicates that the insurer's financial condition is adequate.. A.M. Best, Demotech and Kroll assign ratings that are intended to provide an independent opinion of an insurance company's ability to meet its financial obligations to policyholders and such ratings are not evaluations directed to investors. A.M. Best, Demotech and Kroll periodically review our ratings and may revise ratings downward or revoke them at their sole discretion based primarily on their analyses of our balance sheet strength (including capital adequacy and loss and loss adjustment expense reserve adequacy), operating performance and business profile.  Factors that could affect such analyses include but are not limited to:. 14. • If we change our business practices from our organizational business plan in a manner that no longer supports A.M. Best's, Demotech's or Kroll's rating;. • If unfavorable financial, regulatory or market trends affect us, including excess market capacity;. • If we incur operating losses;. • If we have unresolved issues with government regulators;. • If we are unable to retain our senior management or other key personnel;. • If our investment portfolio incurs significant losses; or. • If A.M. Best, Demotech or Kroll alters its capital adequacy assessment methodology in a manner that would adversely affect our rating.. These and other factors could result in a downgrade of our rating.  A downgrade of our rating could cause our current and future agents, retail brokers and insureds to choose other, more highly - rated competitors.  A downgrade of this rating could also increase the cost or reduce the availability of reinsurance to us.. In addition, in view of the earnings and capital pressures recently experienced by many financial institutions, including insurance companies, it is possible that rating organizations will heighten the level of scrutiny that they apply to such institutions and may increase the capital and other requirements employed in the rating organizations' models for maintenance of certain ratings levels.  It is possible that such reviews of us may result in adverse ratings consequences, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  A downgrade or withdrawal of any rating could severely limit or prevent us from writing new and renewal insurance contracts.. We distribute our insurance products through a select group of agents, several of which account for a significant portion of our business, and there can be no assurance that such relationships will continue, or if they do continue, that the relationship will be on favorable terms to us. In addition, reliance on agents subjects us to their credit risk.. Our distribution model depends almost entirely on the agencies that distribute our products. In 2017, our top six independent agencies accounted for approximately 33% of our gross written premiums in our commercial lines, and our top four agencies accounted for approximately 41% of our gross written premiums in our personal lines. We cannot assure you that these relationships, or our relationships with any of our agencies will continue. Even if the relationships do continue, they may not be on terms that are profitable for us. The termination of a relationship with one or more significant agents could result in lower direct written premiums and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or business prospects.. Certain premiums from policyholders, where the business is produced by agents, are collected directly by the agents and forwarded to our Insurance Company Subsidiaries. In certain jurisdictions, when the insured pays its policy premium to these agents for payment on behalf of our Insurance Company Subsidiaries, the premiums might be considered to have been paid under applicable insurance laws and regulations. Accordingly, the insured would no longer be liable to us for those amounts, whether or not we have actually received the premiums from that agent. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with agents. There may be instances where agents collect premiums but do not remit them to us and we may be required under applicable law to provide the coverage set forth in the policy despite the absence of premiums.  If we are unable to collect premiums from agents in the future, underwriting profits may decline and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. The property and casualty insurance business is historically cyclical in nature, and we may experience periods with excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable premium rates, which could adversely affect our business.. Historically, insurers have experienced significant fluctuations in operating results due to competition, frequency and severity of catastrophic events, levels of capacity, adverse litigation trends, regulatory constraints, general economic conditions and other factors. The supply of insurance is related to prevailing prices, the level of insured losses and the level of capital available to the industry that, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return on investments being earned in the insurance industry. As a result, the insurance business historically has been a cyclical industry characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity increased premium levels. Demand for insurance depends on numerous factors, including the frequency and severity of catastrophic events, levels of capacity, the introduction of new capital providers, and general economic conditions. All of these factors fluctuate and may contribute to price declines generally in the insurance industry.. We cannot predict with certainty whether market conditions will improve, remain constant or deteriorate. Negative market conditions may impair our ability to underwrite insurance at rates we consider appropriate and commensurate relative to the risk assumed. If we cannot underwrite insurance at appropriate rates, our ability to transact business will be materially and adversely affected. Any of these factors could lead to an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 15. If we are unable to underwrite risks accurately and charge competitive yet profitable rates to our policyholders, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected.. In general, the premiums for our insurance policies are established at the time a policy is issued and, therefore, before all of our underlying costs are known. Like other insurance companies, we rely on estimates and assumptions in setting our premium rates. Establishing adequate premium rates is necessary, together with investment income, to generate sufficient revenue to offset losses, LAE and other underwriting costs and to earn a profit. If we do not accurately assess the risks that we underwrite, we may not charge adequate premiums to cover our losses and expenses, which would adversely affect our results of operations and our profitability. Alternatively, we could set our premiums too high, which could reduce our competitiveness and lead to lower revenues.. Pricing involves the acquisition and analysis of historical loss data and the projection of future trends, loss costs and expenses, and inflation trends, among other factors, for each of our products in multiple risk tiers and many different markets. In order to accurately price our policies, we:. • Collect and properly analyze a substantial volume of data from our insureds;. • Develop, test and apply appropriate actuarial projections and rating formulas;. • Closely monitor and timely recognize changes in trends; and. • Project both frequency and severity of our insureds' losses with reasonable accuracy.. We seek to implement our pricing accurately in accordance with our assumptions. Our ability to undertake these efforts successfully and, as a result, accurately price our policies, is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including:. • Insufficient or unreliable data;. • Incorrect or incomplete analysis of available data;. • Uncertainties generally inherent in estimates and assumptions;. • Our failure to implement appropriate actuarial projections and rating formulas or other pricing methodologies;. • Regulatory constraints on rate increases; and. • Our failure to accurately estimate investment yields and the duration of our liability for loss and loss adjustment expenses, as well as unanticipated court decisions, legislation or regulatory action.. In addition, as a result of current industry non-weather factors, such as the increase in litigation surrounding the Assignment of Benefits claims and lawsuits in Florida, in particular, we may experience additional losses that could adversely affect our financial position or results of operations.. We operate in a highly competitive environment and we may not continue to be able to compete effectively against larger or more well - established business rivals.. We compete with a large number of other companies in our selected lines of business. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and may enjoy better name recognition, substantially greater financial resources, higher financial strength ratings by rating agencies, broader and more diversified product lines and more widespread agency relationships than us. Insurers in our markets generally compete on the basis of price, consumer recognition, coverages offered, claims handling, financial stability, customer service and geographic coverage. Although pricing is influenced to some degree by that of our competitors, it is not in our best interests to compete solely on price, and we may from time-to-time experience a loss of market share during periods of intense price competition. A number of new, proposed or potential legislative or industry developments could further increase competition in our industry including, but not limited to:. • An increase in capital - raising by companies in our lines of business, which could result in new entrants to our markets and an excess of capital in the industry;. • The deregulation of commercial insurance lines in certain states and the possibility of federal regulatory reform of the insurance industry, which could increase competition from standard carriers for our E&S lines of insurance business; and. • Changing practices caused by the Internet may lead to greater competition in the insurance business. Among the possible changes are shifts in the way insurance is purchased. If our distribution model was to be significantly altered by changes in the way products were marketed, including, without limitation, through use of the Internet, it could have a material adverse effect on our premiums, underwriting results and profits.. 16. There is no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete successfully in the insurance market. Increased competition in our market could result in a change in the supply and/or demand for insurance, affect our ability to price our products at risk - adequate rates and retain existing business, or underwrite new business on favorable terms. If this increased competition so limits our ability to transact business, our operating results could be adversely affected.. Adverse economic factors, including recession, inflation, periods of high unemployment or lower economic activity could result in the sale of fewer policies than expected or an increase infrequency or severity of claims and premium defaults or both, which, in turn, could affect our growth and profitability.. Factors, such as business revenue, economic conditions, the volatility and strength of the capital markets and inflation can all affect the business and economic environment in which we operate. These same factors affect our ability to generate revenue and profits. In an economic downturn that is characterized by higher unemployment, declining spending and reduced corporate revenues, the demand for insurance products is adversely affected, which directly affects our premium levels and profitability. Negative economic factors may also affect our ability to receive the appropriate rate for the risk we insure with our policyholders and may adversely affect the number of policies we can write, including with respect to our opportunities to underwrite profitable business. In an economic downturn, our customers may have less need for insurance coverage, cancel existing insurance policies, modify their coverage or not renew with us. Existing policyholders may exaggerate or even falsify claims to obtain higher claims payments. These outcomes would reduce our underwriting profit to the extent these factors are not reflected in the rates we charge.. We are subject to extensive regulation, which may adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objectives. In addition, if we fail to comply with these regulations, we may be subject to penalties, including fines and suspensions, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. As a holding company which owns insurance companies domiciled in the United States, we and our admitted Insurance Company Subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation, primarily by Michigan (the domiciliary state for CIC and WPIC) and to a lesser degree, the other jurisdictions in which we operate. Most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of insurance policyholders, as opposed to the interests of shareholders. These regulations generally are administered by a department of insurance in each state and relate to, among other things, authorizations to write certain lines of business, capital and surplus requirements, reserve requirements, rate and form approvals, investment and underwriting limitations, affiliate transactions, dividend limitations, cancellation and non - renewal of policies, changes in control, solvency and a variety of other financial and non - financial aspects of our business. These laws and regulations are regularly re - examined and any changes in these laws and regulations or new laws may be more restrictive, could make it more expensive to conduct business or otherwise adversely affect our operations. State insurance departments also conduct periodic examinations of the affairs of insurance companies and require the filing of annual and other reports relating to financial condition, holding company issues and other matters. These regulatory requirements may impose timing and expense or other constraints that could adversely affect our ability to achieve some or all of our business objectives.. In addition, regulatory authorities have broad discretion to deny or revoke licenses for various reasons, including the violation of regulations. In some instances, where there is uncertainty as to applicability, we follow practices based on our interpretations of regulations or practices that we believe are generally followed by the industry. These practices may turn out to be different from the interpretations of regulatory authorities. If we do not have the requisite licenses and approvals or do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, insurance regulatory authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or otherwise penalize us. This could adversely affect our ability to operate our business.. The admitted market is subject to more state regulation than the E&S market, particularly with regard to rate and form filing requirements, restrictions on the ability to exit lines of business, premium tax payments and membership in various state associations, such as guaranty associations. Some states have deregulated their commercial insurance markets. We cannot predict the effect that further deregulation would have on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. The NAIC has developed a system to test the adequacy of statutory capital of U.S. - based insurers, known as Risk-Based Capital (\"RBC\"), that many states have adopted. This system establishes the minimum amount of RBC necessary for a company to support its overall business operations. It identifies property - casualty insurers that may be inadequately capitalized by looking at certain inherent risks of each insurer's assets and liabilities and its mix of premiums. Insurers falling below a calculated threshold may be subject to varying degrees of regulatory action, including supervision, rehabilitation or liquidation. Failure to maintain adequate risk - based capital at the required levels could adversely affect the ability of our Insurance Company Subsidiaries to maintain regulatory authority to conduct their business.. In addition, the various state insurance regulators have increased their focus on risks within an insurer's holding company system that may pose enterprise risk to the insurer. In 2012, the NAIC adopted significant changes to the insurance. 17. holding company act and regulations (the \"NAIC Amendments\"). The NAIC Amendments, when adopted by the various states, are designed to respond to perceived gaps in the regulation of insurance holding company systems in the United States. One of the major changes is a requirement that an insurance holding company system's ultimate controlling person submit annually to its lead state insurance regulator an \"enterprise risk report\" that identifies activities, circumstances or events involving one or more affiliates of an insurer that, if not remedied properly, are likely to have a material adverse effect upon the financial condition or liquidity of the insurer or its insurance holding company system as a whole. Other changes include requiring a controlling person to submit prior notice to its domiciliary insurance regulator of a divestiture of control, having detailed minimum requirements for cost sharing and management agreements between an insurer and its affiliates and expanding of the agreements between an insurer and its affiliates to be filed with its domiciliary insurance regulator. The NAIC Amendments must be adopted by the individual state legislatures and insurance regulators in order to be effective.  Michigan (i.e., our main domiciliary state for both our CIC and WPIC subsidiaries), requires a form of the enterprise risk report.. In 2012, the NAIC also adopted the Risk Management and Own Risk and Solvency Assessment Model Act (the \"ORSA Model Act\"). The ORSA Model Act, when adopted by the various states, will require an insurance holding company system's Chief Risk Officer to submit annually to its lead state insurance regulator an Own Risk and Solvency Assessment Summary Report (\"ORSA\"). The ORSA is a confidential internal assessment appropriate to the nature, scale and complexity of an insurer, conducted by that insurer of the material and relevant risks identified by the insurer associated with an insurer's current business plan and the sufficiency of capital resources to support those risks. The ORSA Model Act must be adopted by the individual state legislature and insurance regulators in order to be effective. Michigan has adopted the ORSA Model Act.  ORSA filings will be required in Michigan starting in 2018.  The Company is currently exempt from providing an ORSA summary report as it does not meet the minimum premium requirements.. We cannot predict the impact, if any, that the NAIC Amendments, compliance with the ORSA Model Act or any other regulatory requirements may have on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We may become subject to additional government or market regulation which may have a material adverse impact on our business.. Market disruptions like those experienced during the credit - driven financial market collapse in 2008, as well as the dramatic increase in the capital allocated to alternative asset management during recent years, have led to increased governmental as well as self - regulatory scrutiny of the insurance industry in general. In addition, certain legislation proposing greater regulation of the industry is periodically considered by governing bodies of some jurisdictions, and the credit - driven equity market collapse may increase the likelihood that some increased regulation of the industry is mandated.. Our business could be adversely affected by changes in state laws, including those relating to asset and reserve valuation requirements, surplus requirements, limitations on investments and dividends, enterprise risk and risk - based capital requirements and, at the federal level, by laws and regulations that may affect certain aspects of the insurance industry, including proposals for preemptive federal regulation. The U.S. federal government generally has not directly regulated the insurance industry except for certain areas of the market, such as insurance for flood, nuclear and terrorism risks. However, the federal government has undertaken initiatives or considered legislation in several areas that may affect the insurance industry, including tort reform and corporate governance. The Dodd - Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Dodd - Frank Act\") also established the Federal Insurance Office, which is authorized to study, monitor and report to Congress on the insurance industry and to recommend that the Financial Stability Oversight Council (the \"FSOC\") designate an insurer as an entity posing risks to U.S. financial stability in the event of the insurer's material financial distress or failure. In December 2013, the Federal Insurance Office issued a report on alternatives to modernize and improve the system of insurance regulation in the United States, including increasing national uniformity through either a federal charter or effective action by the states. Any additional regulations established as a result of the Dodd - Frank Act or actions in response to the Federal Insurance Office Report could increase our costs of compliance or lead to disciplinary action. In addition, legislation has been introduced from time to time that, if enacted, could result in the federal government assuming a more direct role in the regulation of the insurance industry, including federal licensing in addition to or in lieu of state licensing and reinsurance for natural catastrophes. We are unable to predict whether any legislation will be enacted or any regulations will be adopted, or the effect any such developments could have on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. It is impossible to predict what, if any, changes in the regulations applicable to us, the markets in which we operate, trade and invest or the counterparties with which we do business may be instituted in the future. Any such regulation could have a material adverse impact on our business.. 18. The effect of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business is uncertain.. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either broadening coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until sometime after we have issued insurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued.. We may not be able to manage our growth effectively.. We intend to continue to grow our business, which could require additional capital, systems development and skilled personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to locate profitable business opportunities, meet our capital needs, expand our systems and our internal controls effectively, allocate our human resources optimally, identify qualified employees or agents or incorporate effectively the components of any businesses we may acquire in our effort to achieve growth. The failure to manage our growth effectively and maintain underwriting discipline could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be unable to obtain reinsurance coverage at reasonable prices or on terms that provide us adequate protection.. We purchase reinsurance in many of our lines of business to help manage our exposure to insurance risks that we underwrite and to reduce volatility in our results.. The availability and cost of reinsurance are subject to prevailing market conditions, both in terms of price and available capacity, each of which can affect our business volume and profitability. The availability of reasonably affordable reinsurance is a critical element of our business plan. One important way we utilize reinsurance is to reduce volatility in claims payments by limiting our exposure to losses from large risks. Another way we use reinsurance is to purchase substantial protection against concentrated losses when we enter new markets. As a result, our ability to manage volatility and avoid significant losses, expand into new markets or grow by offering insurance to new kinds of enterprises may be limited by the unavailability of reasonably priced reinsurance. We may not be able to obtain reinsurance on acceptable terms or from entities with satisfactory creditworthiness. In such event, if we are unwilling to accept the terms or credit risk of potential reinsurers, we would have to reduce the level of our underwriting commitments, which would reduce our revenues.. Many reinsurance companies have begun to exclude certain coverages from, or alter terms in, the reinsurance contracts we enter into with them. Some exclusions relate to risks that we cannot in turn exclude from the policies we write due to business or regulatory constraints. In addition, reinsurers are imposing terms, such as lower per occurrence and aggregate limits, on direct insurers that do not wholly cover the risks written by these direct insurers. As a result, we, like other direct insurance companies, write insurance policies which to some extent do not have the benefit of reinsurance protection. These gaps in reinsurance protection expose us to greater risk and greater potential losses. For example, certain reinsurers have excluded coverage for terrorist acts or priced such coverage at unreasonably high rates.. If we are unable to retain key management and employees or recruit other qualified personnel, we may be adversely affected.. We believe that our future success depends, in large part, on our ability to retain our experienced management team and key employees, particularly our chairman and chief executive officer, James G. Petcoff. There can be no assurance that we can attract and retain the necessary employees to conduct our business activities on a timely basis or at all. Our competitors may offer more favorable compensation arrangements to our key management or employees to incentivize them to leave our Company. Furthermore, our competitors may make it more difficult for us to hire their personnel by offering excessive compensation arrangements to certain employees to induce them not to leave their current employment and bringing litigation against employees who do leave (and possibly us as well) to join us. The loss of any of our executive officers or other key personnel, or our inability to recruit and retain additional qualified personnel as we grow, could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations, and could prevent us from fully implementing our growth strategies.. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available or available only on unfavorable terms.. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to write new and renewal business successfully and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses. Our ability to underwrite depends largely upon the expected quality of our claims paying process and our perceived financial strength as estimated by potential insureds, agents, brokers, other intermediaries and independent rating agencies. To the extent that our existing capital is insufficient to fund our future operating requirements, cover claim losses, or satisfy ratings agencies in order to maintain a. 19. satisfactory rating, we may need to raise additional capital in the future through offerings of debt or equity securities or otherwise to:. • Fund liquidity needs caused by underwriting or investment losses;. • Replace capital lost in the event of significant reinsurance losses or adverse reserve developments;. • Satisfy letters of credit or guarantee bond requirements that may be imposed by our clients or by regulators;. • Meet rating agency or regulatory capital requirements; or. • Respond to competitive pressures.. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are unfavorable to us. Further, any additional capital raised through the sale of equity could dilute your ownership interest in the Company and may cause the value of our shares to decline. Additional capital raised through the issuance of debt may result in creditors having rights, preferences and privileges senior or otherwise superior to those of the holders of our shares and may limit our flexibility in operating our business and make it more difficult to obtain capital in the future. Disruptions, uncertainty, or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business. If we are not able to obtain adequate capital, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. We are subject to credit risk with regard to our reinsurance counterparties.. Although reinsurance makes the assuming reinsurer liable to us to the extent of the risk ceded, we are not relieved of our primary liability to our insureds as the direct insurer. We cannot be sure that our reinsurers will pay all reinsurance claims on a timely basis or at all. For example, reinsurers may default in their financial obligations to us as the result of insolvency, lack of liquidity, operational failure, fraud, asserted defenses based on agreement wordings or the principle of utmost good faith, asserted deficiencies in the documentation of agreements or other reasons. The failure of a reinsurer to pay us does not lessen our contractual obligations to insureds. If a reinsurer fails to pay the expected portion of a claim or claims, our net losses might increase substantially and adversely affect our financial condition. Any disputes with reinsurers regarding coverage under reinsurance contracts could be time - consuming, costly and uncertain of success.. Downgrades to the credit ratings of our reinsurance counterparties may result in the reduction of rating agency capital credit provided by those reinsurance contracts and could, therefore, result in a downgrade of our own credit ratings. We evaluate each reinsurance claim based on the facts of the case, historical experience with the reinsurer on similar claims and existing case law and include any amounts deemed uncollectible from the reinsurer in our reserve for uncollectible reinsurance.. Our Insurance Company Subsidiaries are subject to minimum capital and surplus requirements. Failure to meet these requirements could subject us to regulatory action.. Our Insurance Company Subsidiaries are subject to minimum capital and surplus requirements imposed under the laws of their respective states of domicile and each state in which they issue policies. As of December 31, 2017, our Insurance Company Subsidiaries were in compliance with all such reserves.  Any failure by one of our Insurance Company Subsidiaries to meet minimum capital and surplus requirements imposed by applicable state law will subject it to corrective action. This may include requiring adoption of a comprehensive financial plan, revocation of its license to sell insurance products or placing the subsidiary under state regulatory control. A decline in the risk based capital ratios of our Insurance Company Subsidiaries could limit their ability to make a dividend to us and could be a factor in causing rating agencies to downgrade our ratings. Any new minimum capital and surplus requirements adopted in the future may require us to increase the capital and surplus of our Insurance Company Subsidiaries, which we may not be able to do.. Any debt service obligations will reduce the funds available for other business purposes, and the terms and covenants relating to our current and future indebtedness could adversely impact our financial performance and liquidity.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $30 million of interest-only Subordinated Notes (\"Notes\") outstanding.  We are subject to risks typically associated with debt financing, such as insufficient cash flow to meet required debt service payment obligations and the inability to refinance existing indebtedness.. The Notes contain various restrictive covenants that relate to the Company's tangible net worth, fixed-charge coverage. ratios, dividend paying capacity, reinsurance retentions, and risk-based capital ratios.  If we are unable to meet debt covenant requirements or to obtain future waivers regarding such failures, we could be in breach of our credit agreement. Any such breach could cause significant disruption to our operations, including a requirement to immediately repay our indebtedness, and would have severe adverse effects on our liquidity and financial flexibility.. 20. The failure of any of the loss limitations or exclusions we employ, or changes in other claims or coverage issues, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. Although we seek to mitigate our loss exposure through a variety of methods, the future is inherently unpredictable. It is difficult to predict the timing, frequency and severity of losses with statistical certainty. It is not possible to completely eliminate our exposure to un - forecasted or unpredictable events and, to the extent that losses from such risks occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. For instance, various provisions of our policies, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage or choice of forum, which have been negotiated to limit our risks, may not be enforceable in the manner we intend. At the present time, we employ a variety of endorsements to our policies that limit exposure to known risks. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond the underwriting intent or by increasing the size or number of claims.. In addition, we design our policy terms to manage our exposure to expanding theories of legal liability like those which have given rise to claims for lead paint, asbestos, mold, construction defects and environmental matters. Many of the policies we issue also include conditions requiring the prompt reporting of claims to us and entitle us to decline coverage in the event of a violation of that condition. Also, many of our policies limit the period during which a policyholder may bring a claim under the policy, which in many cases is shorter than the statutory period under which such claims can be brought against our policyholders. While these exclusions and limitations help us assess and reduce our loss exposure and help eliminate known exposures to certain risks, it is possible that a court or regulatory authority could nullify or void an exclusion or legislation could be enacted modifying or barring the use of such endorsements and limitations. These types of governmental actions could result in higher than anticipated losses and loss adjustment expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until sometime after we have issued insurance policies that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued.. Increased information technology security threats and more sophisticated computer crimes pose a risk to our systems, networks, products and services.. Our business is dependent upon the uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunication systems. We rely upon our systems, as well as the systems of our vendors, to underwrite and process our business; make claim payments; provide customer service; provide policy administration services, such as endorsements, cancellations and premium collections; comply with insurance regulatory requirements; and perform actuarial and other analytical functions necessary for pricing and product development. We have established security policies, processes and layers of defense designed to help identify and protect against intentional and unintentional misappropriation or corruption of our systems and information and disruption of our operations. Our security measures are focused on the prevention, detection and remediation of damage from computer viruses, natural disasters, unauthorized access, cyber attack and other similar disruptions.. Despite these efforts, our systems may be damaged, disrupted, or shut down due to attacks by unauthorized access, malicious software, undetected intrusion, hardware failures, or other events, and in these circumstances our disaster recovery planning may be ineffective or inadequate. Information technology security threats from user error to cybersecurity attacks are increasing in frequency and sophistication. Cybersecurity attacks may range from random attempts to coordinated and targeted attacks, including sophisticated computer crime and advanced threats. These threats pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data.  The potential consequences of a material cybersecurity attack include reputational damage, litigation with third parties, and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs. A sustained business interruption or system failure could adversely impact our ability to process our business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary business functions. We could also be subject to fines and penalties from a security breach. The cost to remedy a severe breach could be substantial.. We rely on our systems and employees, and those of certain third - party vendors and service providers in conducting our operations, and certain failures, including internal or external fraud, operational errors, or systems malfunctions, could materially adversely affect our operations.. We are exposed to many types of operational risk, including the risk of fraud by employees and outsiders, clerical and recordkeeping errors and computer or telecommunications systems malfunctions.  Our business depends on our ability to process a large number of increasingly complex transactions. If any of our operational, accounting, or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected. Similarly, we depend on our employees. We could be materially adversely affected if one or more of our employees cause a significant operational. 21. breakdown or failure, either as a result of human error or intentional sabotage or fraudulent manipulation of our operations or systems.. Third parties with whom we do business, including vendors that provide services or security solutions for our operations, could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns, failures, or capacity constraints of their own systems or employees. Any of these occurrences could diminish our ability to operate our business, or cause financial loss, potential liability to insureds, inability to secure insurance, reputational damage or regulatory intervention, which could materially adversely affect us.. Our geographic concentration ties our performance to the business, economic, natural perils, man-made perils, and regulatory conditions within our most concentrated region.. Our revenues and profitability are subject to the prevailing regulatory, legal, economic, political, demographic, competitive, weather and other conditions in the principal states in which we do business. Changes in any of these conditions could make it less attractive for us to do business in such states and would have a more pronounced effect on us compared to companies that are more geographically diversified. In addition, our exposure to severe losses from localized perils, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tropical storms, tornadoes, wind, ice storms, hail, fires, terrorism, riots and explosions, is increased in those areas where we have written significant numbers of insurance policies.. Litigation and legal proceedings against our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations.. As an insurance holding company, our subsidiaries are named as defendants in various legal actions in the ordinary course of business. We believe that the outcome of presently pending matters, individually and in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, operating results or liquidity. However, the outcomes of lawsuits cannot be predicted and, if determined adversely, could require us to pay significant damage amounts or to change aspects of our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. We are subject to assessments and other surcharges from state guaranty funds, and mandatory state insurance facilities, which may reduce our profitability.. Our Insurance Company Subsidiaries are subject to assessments in most states where we are licensed for the provision of funds necessary for the settlement of covered claims under certain policies provided by impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies. These assessments, which are levied by guaranty associations within the state in proportion to  premiums written by member insures in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer was engaged. Maximum contributions required by law in any one year vary by state, and have historically been less than one percent of annual premiums written.  We cannot predict with certainty the amount of future assessments because they depend on factors outside our control, such as insolvencies of other insurance companies.  Significant assessments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. Our principal shareholders and management own a significant percentage of our stock and will be able to exert significant control over matters subject to shareholder approval.. As of December 31, 2017, our executive officers, directors, 5% shareholders and their affiliates owned approximately 45.8% of our voting stock.  Therefore, these shareholders will have the ability to influence us through their ownership position.  These shareholders may be able to significantly influence all matters requiring shareholder approval.  For example, these shareholders may be able to significantly influence elections of directors, amendments of our organizational documents, or approval of any merger, sale of assets, or other major corporate transaction.  This may prevent or discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or offers for our common stock that you may feel are in your best interest as one of our shareholders.. We cannot assure you that we will declare or pay dividends on our common shares in the future so any returns may be limited to the value of our stock.. We currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings for the development, operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Any return to shareholders will therefore be limited to appreciation in value of their stock, if any.. In addition, any determination to declare or pay future dividends to our shareholders will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on a variety of factors, including (1) our financial condition, liquidity, results of operations (including our ability to generate cash flow in excess of expenses and our expected or actual net income), retained earnings and collateral and capital requirements, (2) general business conditions, (3) legal, tax and regulatory limitations,. 22. (4) contractual prohibitions and other restrictions, (5) the effect of a dividend or dividends upon our financial strength ratings and (6) any other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. See \"Dividend Policy.\". We incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives.. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company.  In addition, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, which require, among other things, that we file with the SEC, annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. We are also subject to other reporting and corporate governance requirements, including certain requirements of Nasdaq and certain provisions of the Sarbanes - Oxley Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder, which will impose significant compliance obligations upon us.. The Sarbanes - Oxley Act and the Dodd - Frank Act, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and Nasdaq, have increased regulation of, and imposed enhanced disclosure and corporate governance requirements on, public companies. Our efforts to comply with these evolving laws, regulations and standards have increased our operating costs and may divert management's time and attention from revenue - generating activities.. Other expenses associated with being a public company include increases in auditing, accounting and legal fees and expenses, investor relations expenses, increased directors' fees and director and officer liability insurance costs, registrar and transfer agent fees and listing fees, as well as other expenses.. Certain provisions of our corporate governance documents and Michigan law could discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition at a premium price.. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws will contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our Company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors (our \"Board\"). These include provisions that, among other things:. • Permit the Board to issue up to 10 million shares of preferred stock, with any rights, preferences and privileges as they may determine (including the right to approve an acquisition or other change in control);. • Provide that the authorized number of directors may be fixed only by the Board in accordance with our amended and restated bylaws;. • Do not provide for cumulative voting rights (therefore allowing the holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote in any election of directors to elect all of the directors standing for election);. • Provide that all vacancies and newly created directorships may be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of directors then in office, even if less than a quorum;. • Prohibit removal of directors without cause;. • Prohibit shareholders from calling special meetings of shareholders;. • Requires unanimous consent for shareholders to take action by written consent without approval of the action by our Board;. • Provide that shareholders seeking to present proposals before a meeting of shareholders or to nominate candidates for election as directors at a meeting of shareholders must provide advance notice in writing and also comply with specified requirements related to the form and content of a shareholder's notice;. • Require at least 80% supermajority shareholder approval to alter, amend or repeal certain provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation; and. • Require at least 80% supermajority shareholder approval in order for shareholders to adopt, amend or repeal our amended and restated bylaws.. These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for shareholders to replace members of the Board of Directors, which is responsible for appointing members of our management.. In addition, the 2015 Omnibus Incentive Plan permits the Board or a committee thereof to accelerate, vest or cause the restrictions to lapse with respect to outstanding equity awards, in the event of, or immediately prior to, a change in control. Such vesting or acceleration could discourage the acquisition of our Company.. 23. We could also become subject to certain anti - takeover provisions under Michigan law which may discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring us or merging with us, whether or not an acquisition or merger is desired by or beneficial to our shareholders. If a corporation's board of directors chooses to \"opt in\" to certain provisions of Michigan Law, such corporation may not, in general, engage in a business combination with any beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 10% of the corporation's outstanding voting shares unless the holder has held the shares for five years or more or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the business combination. Our Board of Directors has not elected to be subject to this provision, but could do so in the future. Any provision of our amended and restated articles of incorporation or bylaws or Michigan law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our shareholders to receive a premium for their shares, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock otherwise.. 24"
