[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock.. Our operating results, our future rate of growth and the carrying value of our assets are exposed to the effects of changing commodity prices.. Prices for crude oil, bitumen, natural gas, natural gas liquids and LNG can fluctuate widely. Globally, prices for crude oil, bitumen, natural gas, natural gas liquids and LNG have experienced significant declines from their historic levels during 2013 and 2014, with excess of supply relative to global demand leading to global inventory builds. Total average annual prices in 2017 for Brent crude oil, WTI crude oil, Henry Hub natural gas and our realized natural gas liquids all decreased by at least 30 percent when compared with 2014 despite having improved by at least 18 percent when compared with 2016. Given volatility in commodity price drivers and the business environment, price trends may not continue or reverse themselves.. Our revenues, operating results and future rate of growth are highly dependent on the prices we receive for our crude oil, bitumen, natural gas, natural gas liquids and LNG. The factors influencing these prices are beyond our control. Lower crude oil, bitumen, natural gas, natural gas liquids and LNG prices may have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating income, cash flows and liquidity and on the amount of dividends we elect to declare and pay on our common stock. Lower prices may also limit the amount of reserves we can produce economically, adversely affecting our reserve replacement ratio and accelerating the reduction in our existing reserve levels as we continue production from upstream fields.. Significant reductions in crude oil, bitumen, natural gas, natural gas liquids and LNG prices could also require us to reduce our capital expenditures or impair the carrying value of our assets. In the past three years, we recognized several impairments, which are described in Note 8 - Impairments and the \"APLNG\" section of Note 5 - Investments, Loans and Long-Term Receivables, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. If commodity prices remain low relative to their historic levels, and as we continue to optimize our investments and exercise capital flexibility, it is reasonably likely we will incur future impairments to long-lived assets used in operations, investments in nonconsolidated entities accounted for under the equity method and unproved properties. Although it is not reasonably practicable to quantify the impact of any future impairments at this time, our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result.. Our ability to declare and pay dividends and repurchase shares is subject to certain considerations.. Dividends are authorized and determined by our Board of Directors in its sole discretion and depend upon a number of factors, including:. <U+0095>   Cash available for distribution.. <U+0095>   Our results of operations and anticipated future results of operations.. <U+0095>   Our financial condition, especially in relation to the anticipated future capital needs of our properties.. <U+0095>   The level of reserves we establish for future capital expenditures.. <U+0095>   The level of distributions paid by comparable companies.. <U+0095>   Our operating expenses.. <U+0095>   Other factors our Board of Directors deems relevant.. We expect to continue to pay quarterly distributions to our stockholders; however, we bear all expenses incurred by our operations, and our funds generated by operations, after deducting these expenses, may not be sufficient to cover desired levels of distributions to our stockholders.. 20. Table of Contents. Additionally, our share repurchase program does not obligate us to acquire any specific number of shares. Any downward revision in our distribution or share repurchase program could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. We may need additional capital in the future, and it may not be available on acceptable terms.. We have historically relied primarily upon cash generated by our operations to fund our operations and strategy, however we have also relied from time to time on access to the debt and equity capital markets for funding. There can be no assurance that additional debt or equity financing will be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, although we anticipate we will be able to repay our existing indebtedness when it matures or in accordance with our stated plans, there can be no assurance we will be able to do so. Our ability to obtain additional financing, or refinance our existing indebtedness when it matures or in accordance with our stated plans, will be subject to a number of factors, including market conditions, our operating performance, investor sentiment and our ability to incur additional debt in compliance with agreements governing our then-outstanding debt. If we are unable to generate sufficient funds from operations or raise additional capital, our growth could be impeded.. In addition, we are regularly evaluated by the major rating agencies based on a number of factors, including our financial strength and conditions affecting the oil and gas industry generally. For example, due to the significant decline in prices for crude oil, bitumen, natural gas, natural gas liquids and LNG in 2015, and the expectation that these prices could remain depressed, the major ratings agencies conducted a review of the oil and gas industry and downgraded our debt ratings and those of several companies operating in the industry in 2016. Any downgrade in our credit rating, could increase the cost associated with any additional indebtedness we incur.. Our business may be adversely affected by deterioration in the credit quality of, or defaults under our contracts with, third parties with whom we do business.. The operation of our business requires us to engage in transactions with numerous counterparties operating in a variety of industries, including other companies operating in the oil and gas industry. These counterparties may default on their obligations to us as a result of operational failures or a lack of liquidity, or for other reasons, including bankruptcy. Market speculation about the credit quality of these counterparties, or their ability to continue performing on their existing obligations, may also exacerbate any operational difficulties or liquidity issues they are experiencing, particularly as it relates to other companies in the oil and gas industry as a result of the volatility in commodity prices. Any default by any of our counterparties may result in our inability to perform obligations under agreements we have made with third parties or may otherwise adversely affect our business or results of operations. In addition, our rights against any of our counterparties as a result of a default may not be adequate to compensate us for the resulting harm caused or may not be enforceable at all in some circumstances.. Unless we successfully add to our existing proved reserves, our future crude oil, bitumen, natural gas and natural gas liquids production will decline, resulting in an adverse impact to our business.. The rate of production from upstream fields generally declines as reserves are depleted. Except to the extent that we conduct successful exploration and development activities, or, through engineering studies, optimize production performance or identify additional or secondary recovery reserves, our proved reserves will decline materially as we produce crude oil, bitumen, natural gas and natural gas liquids. Accordingly, to the extent we are unsuccessful in replacing the crude oil, bitumen, natural gas and natural gas liquids we produce with good prospects for future production, our business will experience reduced cash flows and results of operations. Any cash conservation efforts we may undertake as a result of commodity price declines may further limit our ability to replace depleted reserves.. 21. Table of Contents. The exploration and production of oil and gas is a highly competitive industry.. The exploration and production of crude oil, bitumen, natural gas and natural gas liquids is a highly competitive business. We compete with private, public and state-owned companies in all facets of the exploration and production business, including to locate and obtain new sources of supply and to produce oil, bitumen, natural gas and natural gas liquids in an efficient, cost-effective manner. Some of our competitors are larger and have greater resources than we do or may be willing to incur a higher level of risk than we are willing to incur to obtain potential sources of supply. If we are not successful in our competition for new reserves, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. Any material change in the factors and assumptions underlying our estimates of crude oil, bitumen, natural gas and natural gas liquids reserves could impair the quantity and value of those reserves.. Our proved reserve information included in this annual report has been derived from engineering estimates prepared by our personnel. Reserve estimation is a process that involves estimating volumes to be recovered from underground accumulations of crude oil, bitumen, natural gas and natural gas liquids that cannot be directly measured. As a result, different petroleum engineers, each using industry-accepted geologic and engineering practices and scientific methods, may produce different estimates of reserves and future net cash flows based on the same available data. Any significant future price changes could have a material effect on the quantity and present value of our proved reserves. Any material changes in the factors and assumptions underlying our estimates of these items could result in a material negative impact to the volume of reserves reported or could cause us to incur impairment expenses on property associated with the production of those reserves. Future reserve revisions could also result from changes in, among other things, governmental regulation. In addition to changes in the quantity and value of our proved reserves, the amount of crude oil, bitumen, natural gas and natural gas liquids that can be obtained from any proved reserve may ultimately be different from those estimated prior to extraction.. We expect to continue to incur substantial capital expenditures and operating costs as a result of our compliance with existing and future environmental laws and regulations. Likewise, future environmental laws and regulations, such as limitations on greenhouse gas emissions, may impact or limit our current business plans and reduce demand for our products.. Our businesses are subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These laws and regulations continue to increase in both number and complexity and affect our operations with respect to, among other things:. <U+0095>   The discharge of pollutants into the environment.. <U+0095>   Emissions into the atmosphere, such as nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide, mercury and greenhouse gas emissions.. <U+0095>   Carbon taxes.. <U+0095>   The handling, use, storage, transportation, disposal and cleanup of hazardous materials and hazardous and nonhazardous wastes.. <U+0095>   The dismantlement, abandonment and restoration of our properties and facilities at the end of their useful lives.. <U+0095>   Exploration and production activities in certain areas, such as offshore environments, arctic fields, oil sands reservoirs and tight oil plays.. We have incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of these laws and regulations. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods could be materially adversely affected.. Although our business operations are designed and operated to accommodate expected climatic conditions, to the extent there are significant changes in the Earth's climate, such as more severe or frequent weather. 22. Table of Contents. conditions in the markets we serve or the areas where our assets reside, we could incur increased expenses, our operations could be materially impacted, and demand for our products could fall. Demand for our products may also be adversely affected by conservation plans and efforts undertaken in response to global climate change, including plans developed in connection with the Paris climate conference in December 2015. Many governments also provide, or may in the future provide, tax advantages and other subsidies to support the use and development of alternative energy technologies. Our operations and the demand for our products could be materially impacted by the development and adoption of these technologies.. Domestic and worldwide political and economic developments could damage our operations and materially reduce our profitability and cash flows.. Actions of the U.S., state, local and foreign governments, through tax and other legislation, executive order and commercial restrictions, including changes resulting from the implementation and interpretation of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, could reduce our operating profitability both in the United States and abroad. In certain locations, governments have imposed or proposed restrictions on our operations; special taxes or tax assessments; and payment transparency regulations that could require us to disclose competitively sensitive information or might cause us to violate non-disclosure laws of other countries. U.S. federal, state and local legislative and regulatory agencies' initiatives regarding the hydraulic fracturing process could result in operating restrictions or delays in the completion of our oil and gas wells.. The U.S. government can also prevent or restrict us from doing business in foreign countries. These restrictions and those of foreign governments have in the past limited our ability to operate in, or gain access to, opportunities in various countries. Actions by host governments have affected operations significantly in the past, such as the expropriation of our oil assets by the Venezuelan government, and may continue to do so in the future. Changes in domestic and international regulations may affect our ability to obtain or maintain permits, including those necessary for drilling and development of wells in various locations.. Local political and economic factors in international markets could have a material adverse effect on us. Approximately 58 percent of our hydrocarbon production was derived from production outside the United States in 2017, and 45 percent of our proved reserves, as of December 31, 2017, was located outside the United States. We are subject to risks associated with operations in international markets, including changes in foreign governmental policies relating to crude oil, natural gas, bitumen, natural gas liquids or LNG pricing and taxation, other political, economic or diplomatic developments, changing political conditions and international monetary fluctuations. In particular, some countries where we operate lack well-developed legal systems or have not adopted clear legal and regulatory frameworks for oil and gas exploration and production. This lack of legal certainty exposes our operations to increased risks, including increased difficulty in enforcing our agreements in those jurisdictions and increased risks of adverse actions by local government authorities, such as expropriations.. Changes in governmental regulations may impose price controls and limitations on production of crude oil, bitumen, natural gas and natural gas liquids.. Our operations are subject to extensive governmental regulations. From time to time, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of flow of crude oil, bitumen, natural gas and natural gas liquids wells below actual production capacity. Because legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation, we cannot predict the effect of these requirements.. Our investments in joint ventures decrease our ability to manage risk.. We conduct many of our operations through joint ventures in which we may share control with our joint venture partners. There is a risk our joint venture participants may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with those of the joint venture or us, or our joint venture partners may be unable to meet their economic or other obligations and we may be required to fulfill those obligations alone. Failure by us, or an entity in which we have a joint venture interest, to adequately manage the risks associated with any acquisitions or joint ventures could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of our joint ventures and, in turn, our business and operations.. 23. Table of Contents. We may not be able to successfully complete any disposition we elect to pursue.. From time to time, we may seek to divest portions of our business or investments that are not important to our ongoing strategic objectives. Any dispositions we undertake may involve numerous risks and uncertainties, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. In particular, we may not be able to successfully complete any disposition on a timeline or on terms acceptable to us, if at all, whether due to market conditions, regulatory challenges or other concerns. In addition, the reinvestment of capital from disposition proceeds may not ultimately yield investment returns in line with our internal or external expectations. Any dispositions we pursue may also result in disruption to other parts of our business, including through the diversion of resources and management attention from our ongoing business and other strategic matters, or through the disruption of relationships with our employees and key vendors. Further, in connection with any disposition, we may enter into transition services agreements or undertake indemnity or other obligations that may result in additional expenses for us.. As part of our disposition strategy, on May 17, 2017, we completed the sale of our 50 percent nonoperated interest in the FCCL Partnership, as well as the majority of our western Canada gas assets to Cenovus Energy. Consideration for the transaction included 208 million Cenovus Energy common shares. We may not be able to liquidate the shares issued to us by Cenovus Energy at prices we deem acceptable, or at all.. We do not insure against all potential losses; therefore, we could be harmed by unexpected liabilities and increased costs.. We maintain insurance against many, but not all, potential losses or liabilities arising from operating risks. As such, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to fully cover us against potential losses arising from such risks. Uninsured losses and liabilities arising from operating risks could reduce the funds available to us for capital, exploration and investment spending and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our operations present hazards and risks that require significant and continuous oversight.. The scope and nature of our operations present a variety of significant hazards and risks, including operational hazards and risks such as explosions, fires, crude oil spills, severe weather, geological events, labor disputes, terrorist attacks, sabotage, civil unrest or cyber attacks. Our operations may also be adversely affected by unavailability, interruptions or accidents involving services or infrastructure required to develop, produce, process or transport our production, such as contract labor, drilling rigs, pipelines, railcars, tankers, barges or other infrastructure. Our operations are subject to the additional hazards of pollution, releases of toxic gas and other environmental hazards and risks. Activities in deepwater areas may pose incrementally greater risks because of complex subsurface conditions such as higher reservoir pressures, water depths and metocean conditions. All such hazards could result in loss of human life, significant property and equipment damage, environmental pollution, impairment of operations, substantial losses to us and damage to our reputation. Further, our business and operations may be disrupted if we do not respond, or are perceived not to respond, in an appropriate manner to any of these hazards and risks or any other major crisis or if we are unable to efficiently restore or replace affected operational components and capacity.. Our technologies, systems and networks may be subject to cybersecurity breaches. Although we have experienced occasional, actual or attempted breaches of our cybersecurity, none of these breaches has had a material effect on our business, operations or reputation. If our systems for protecting against cybersecurity risks prove to be insufficient, we could be adversely affected by having our business systems compromised, our proprietary information altered, lost or stolen, or our business operations disrupted. As cyber attacks continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information systems and related infrastructure security vulnerabilities.. 24. Table of Contents"
