[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Business. We may not generate sufficient distributable cash flow to support the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution to our common and subordinated unitholders.. 17. In order to support the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution of $0.5125 per common and subordinated unit per quarter, or $2.05 per common and subordinated unit on an annualized basis, we must generate distributable cash flow of approximately $14,285 per quarter, or approximately $57,142 per year, based on the number of common units, subordinated units and the general partner interest outstanding as of December 31, 2017.. The amount of available cash (as defined in the Partnership Agreement. See Item 5 - Market for Registrant's Common Units and Related Unitholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities - \"Definition of Available Cash\") that we can distribute on our common units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things:. • the amount of coal we are able to produce from our mines and the efficiency of our mining, preparation and transportation of coal, which could be adversely affected by, among other things, operating difficulties, unfavorable geologic conditions, inclement or hazardous weather conditions and natural disasters or other force majeure events;. • the levels of our operating expenses, general and administrative expenses and capital expenditures;. • the fees and expenses of our general partner and its affiliates (including CONSOL Energy) that we are required to reimburse;. • the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner;. • restrictions on distributions contained in our debt agreements;. • our ability to borrow under our debt agreements and/or to access the capital markets to fund our capital expenditures and operating expenditures and to pay distributions;. • our debt service requirements and other liabilities;. • the loss of, or significant reduction in, purchases by our largest customers;. • the level and timing of our capital expenditures;. • fluctuations in our working capital needs;. • the cost of acquisitions, if any; and. • other business risks affecting our cash levels.. In addition, the actual amount of distributable cash flow that we generate will also depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:. • overall domestic and global economic and industry conditions, including the market price of, supply of and demand for domestic and foreign coal;. • the consumption pattern of industrial consumers, electricity generators and residential users;. • the price and availability of alternative fuels for electricity generation, especially natural gas;. • competition from other coal suppliers;. • the impact of domestic and foreign governmental laws and regulations, including environmental and climate change regulations and regulations affecting the coal mining industry and coal-fired power plants, and delays in the receipt of, failure to receive, failure to maintain or revocation of necessary governmental permits;. • the costs associated with our compliance with domestic and foreign governmental laws and regulations, including environmental and climate change regulations;. • technological advances affecting energy consumption;. • the costs, availability and capacity of transportation infrastructure;. • the cost and availability of skilled labor (including miners), the effects of new or expanded health and safety regulations and work stoppages and other labor difficulties; and. • changes in tax laws.. Our growth strategy primarily depends on us acquiring additional undivided interests in the Pennsylvania Mining Complex from CONSOL Energy.. Our primary strategy for growing our business and increasing distributions to our unitholders is to increase operating efficiencies to maximize realizations and make acquisitions that increase our distributable cash flow. The primary component of our growth strategy is based upon our expectation of future divestitures by CONSOL Energy to us of portions of its currently retained 75% undivided interest in the Pennsylvania Mining Complex. CONSOL Energy is under no obligation to sell us additional undivided interests in the Pennsylvania Mining Complex and we are under no obligation to purchase additional undivided interests in the Pennsylvania Mining Complex from CONSOL Energy. We may never purchase additional undivided interests in the Pennsylvania Mining Complex  for several reasons, including the following:. • CONSOL Energy may choose not to sell any portion of its undivided interests in the Pennsylvania Mining Complex;. 18. • we may not make offers to buy any additional interests in the Pennsylvania Mining Complex;. • we and CONSOL Energy may be unable to agree to terms acceptable to both parties;. • we may be unable to obtain financing to purchase additional undivided interests in the Pennsylvania Mining Complex on acceptable terms or at all; or. • we may be prohibited by the terms of our debt agreements (including the Affiliated Company Credit Agreement) or other contracts from purchasing additional undivided interests in the Pennsylvania Mining Complex, and CONSOL Energy may be prohibited by the terms of its debt agreements or other contracts from selling all or any portion of it. If we or CONSOL Energy must seek waivers of such provisions or refinance debt governed by such provisions in order to consummate a sale of CONSOL Energy's undivided interests in the Pennsylvania Mining Complex, we or CONSOL Energy may be unable to do so in a timely manner or at all.. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to successfully consummate any future acquisition of all or any portion of CONSOL Energy's retained 75% undivided interest in the Pennsylvania Mining Complex. If CONSOL Energy reduces its ownership interest in us, it may be less willing to sell to us additional undivided interests in the Pennsylvania Mining Complex.  There are no restrictions on CONSOL Energy's ability to transfer Pennsylvania Mining Complex assets to a third party. If we do not acquire all or a significant portion of CONSOL Energy's retained 75% undivided interest in the Pennsylvania Mining Complex or other assets, our ability to grow our business and increase our cash distributions to our unitholders may be significantly limited.. We face uncertainties in estimating our economically recoverable coal reserves, and inaccuracies in our estimates could result in lower than expected revenues, higher than expected costs and decreased profitability.. Coal reserves are economically recoverable when the price at which they are expected to be sold exceeds their expected cost of production and selling. Forecasts of our future performance are based on, among other things, estimates of our recoverable coal reserves. We base our coal reserve information on geologic data, coal ownership information and current and proposed mine plans. These estimates are periodically updated to reflect past coal production, new drilling information and other geologic or mining data. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and qualities of economically recoverable coal reserves, including many factors beyond our control.  As a result, estimates of economically recoverable coal reserves are by their nature uncertain. Information about our reserves consists of estimates based on engineering, economic and geological data assembled and analyzed by our staff.  Some of the factors and assumptions which impact economically recoverable coal reserve estimates include:. • geologic and mining conditions;. • historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas;. • the assumed effects of regulations and taxes by governmental agencies;. • our ability to obtain, maintain and renew all required permits;. • future improvements in mining technology;. • assumptions governing future prices; and. • future operating costs, including the cost of materials, and capital expenditures.. Each of the factors that impacts reserve estimation may vary considerably from the assumptions used in estimating the reserves. For these reasons, estimates of coal reserves may vary substantially. Actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to our coal reserves will likely vary from estimates, and these variances may be material. As a result, our estimates may not accurately reflect our actual coal reserves.. Our inability to acquire additional coal reserves that are economically recoverable may have a material adverse effect on our future profitability.. Our profitability depends substantially on our ability to mine, in a cost-effective manner, coal reserves that possess the quality characteristics that our customers desire. Because our reserves decline as we mine our coal, our future profitability depends upon our ability to acquire additional coal reserves that are economically recoverable to replace the reserves we produce. If we fail to acquire or develop sufficient additional reserves over the long term to replace the reserves depleted by our production, our existing reserves will eventually be depleted, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Deterioration in the global economic conditions in any of the industries in which our customers operate, or a worldwide financial downturn, or negative credit market conditions may have a materially adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations, cash flows, business and financial condition and ability to make cash distributions.. 19. Economic conditions in a number of industries in which our customers operate, such as electric power generation and steelmaking, substantially deteriorated in recent years and reduced the demand for coal. The general economic challenges for some of our customers continued in 2017 and the outlook is uncertain. In addition, liquidity is essential to our Partnership and developing our assets. Renewed or continued weakness in the economic conditions of any of the industries we serve or are served by our customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions. For example:. • demand for electricity in the United States is impacted by industrial production, which if weakened would negatively impact the revenues, margins and profitability of our coal business;. • demand for metallurgical coal depends on steel demand in the United States and globally, which if weakened would negatively impact the revenues, margins and profitability of our metallurgical coal business including our ability to sell our thermal coal as higher priced high volatile metallurgical coal;. • the tightening of credit or lack of credit availability to our customers could adversely affect our ability to collect our trade receivables;. • our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to raise capital for our business including for exploration and/or development of our coal reserves, or for strategic acquisitions of assets, including from CONSOL Energy; and. • decline in our creditworthiness, which may require us to post letters of credit, cash collateral or surety bonds to secure certain obligations, all of which would have an adverse effect on our liquidity.. Decreases in demand for electricity and changes in coal consumption patterns of U.S. electric power generators could adversely affect our business.. Our business is closely linked to domestic demand for electricity, and any changes in coal consumption by U.S. electric power generators would likely impact our business over the long term. According to the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA), in 2017, the domestic electric power sector accounted for approximately 93% of total U.S. coal consumption. In 2017, the Pennsylvania Mining Complex sold approximately 65% of its coal to U.S. electric power generators, and we have annual or multi-year contracts in place with these electric power generators for a significant portion of our future production. The amount of coal consumed by the electric power generation industry is affected by, among other things:. • general economic conditions, particularly those affecting industrial electric power demand, such as a downturn in the U.S. economy and financial markets;. • overall demand for electricity;. • indirect competition from alternative fuel sources for power generation, such as natural gas, fuel oil, nuclear, hydroelectric, wind and solar power, and the location, availability, quality and price of those alternative fuel sources;. • environmental and other governmental regulations, including those impacting coal-fired power plants; and. • energy conservation efforts and related governmental policies.. For example, the relatively recent low price of natural gas has resulted, in some instances, in domestic electric power generators increasing natural gas consumption while decreasing coal consumption. Federal and state mandates for increased use of electricity derived from renewable energy sources could affect demand for our coal. Such mandates, combined with other incentives to use renewable energy sources, such as tax credits, could make alternative fuel sources more competitive with coal. A decrease in coal consumption by the electric power generation industry could adversely affect the price of coal, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions.. According to the EIA, although electricity demand fell in only three years between 1950 and 2007, it declined in five of the eight years between 2008 and 2015. The largest drop in electricity demand occurred in 2009, primarily as the result of the steep economic downturn from late 2007 through 2009, which led to a large drop in electricity sales in the industrial sector. Other factors, such as efficiency improvements associated with new appliance standards in the buildings sectors and overall improvement in the efficiency of technologies powered by electricity, have slowed electricity demand growth and may contribute to slower growth in the future, even as the U.S. economy continues its recovery. Further decreases in the demand for electricity, such as decreases that could be caused by a worsening of current economic conditions, a prolonged economic recession or other similar events, could have a material adverse effect on the demand for coal and on our business over the. long term.. Changes in the coal industry that affect our customers, such as those caused by decreased electricity demand and increased competition, could also adversely affect our business. Indirect competition from natural gas-fired plants that are. 20. relatively more efficient, less expensive to construct and less difficult to permit than coal-fired plants has the most potential to displace a significant amount of coal-fired electric power generation in the near term, particularly from older, less efficient coal-fired powered generators.  For example, according to the EIA, installed U.S. natural gas-fired net summer generating capacity increased by about 7 gigawatts from 2014-2015, while installed coal-fired net summer generating capacity decreased by about 19 gigawatts over the same period. Additionally, there are currently no new coal-fired plants under construction in the United States and there is no guarantee that new coal-fired power plants will be constructed in this United States.  If no new coal-fired power plants are constructed in the United States, the Partnership could be forced to rely more heavily on foreign customers to purchase its coal.  Finally, uncertainty caused by federal and state regulations could cause coal customers to be uncertain of their coal requirements in future years, which could adversely affect our ability to sell coal to our customers under multi-year sales contracts.. Prices for coal are volatile and can fluctuate widely based upon a number of factors beyond our control, including oversupply relative to the demand available for our coal, weather and the price and availability of alternative fuels. A substantial or extended decline in the prices we receive for our coal could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Our financial results are significantly affected by the prices we receive for our coal and depend, in part, on the margins that we receive on sales of our coal. Our margins reflect the price we receive for our coal over our cost of producing and transporting our coal. Prices and quantities under our multi-year sales contracts are generally based on expectations of future coal prices at the time the contract is entered into, renewed, extended or re-opened. The expectation of future prices for coal depends upon many factors. In addition, demand can fluctuate widely due to a number of matters beyond our control, including:. • the market price for coal;. • changes in the consumption pattern of industrial consumers, electricity generators and residential end-users of electricity;. • weather conditions in our markets which affect the demand for thermal coal;. • competition from other coal suppliers;. • the price and availability of alternative fuels and sources for electricity generation, especially natural gas and renewable energy sources;. • with respect to thermal coal, the price and availability of natural gas and the price and supply of imported liquefied natural gas;. • technological advances affecting energy consumption;. • the costs, availability and capacity of transportation infrastructure;. • overall domestic and global economic conditions, including the supply of and demand for domestic and foreign coal;. • international developments impacting supply of metallurgical coal; and. • the impact of domestic and foreign governmental laws and regulations, including environmental and climate change regulations and regulations affecting the coal mining industry and coal-fired power plants, and delays in the receipt of, failure to receive, failure to maintain or revocation of necessary governmental permits.. The coal industry also faces concerns with respect to oversupply from time to time. For example, the unusually warm 2015-16 winter left utilities with large coal stockpiles and depressed the demand for thermal coal. Also, China, a key participant in the seaborne market, has experienced highly volatile swings in seaborne coal demand which can adversely affect the supply/demand balance.  The domestic and international supply-demand fundamentals for coal became more balanced in 2017 vs. 2016, as domestic power plant coal inventories were reduced to 143 million tons, or 27 million tons below year-ago levels, as of the end of November 2017, and U.S. coal exports were up by 67% in January-November 2017 vs. the same period in 2016. A substantial or extended decline in the prices we receive for our coal could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flow and liquidity.. Competition within the coal industry may adversely affect our ability to sell coal. Increased competition or a loss of our competitive position could adversely affect our sales of, or our prices for, our coal, which could impair our profitability. In addition, foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect the competitiveness of our coal abroad.. We compete with other producers primarily on the basis of price, coal quality, transportation costs and reliability of delivery. We compete with coal producers in various regions of the United States and with some foreign coal producers for domestic sales primarily to electric power generators. We also compete with both domestic and foreign coal producers for sales in international markets. Demand for our coal by our principal customers is affected by the delivered price of competing coals, other fuel supplies and alternative generating sources, including nuclear, natural gas, oil and renewable energy sources, such as hydroelectric, wind and solar power.. 21. We sell coal to foreign electricity generators and to the more specialized metallurgical coal market, both of which. are significantly affected by international demand and competition. Competition from other producers may or may not adversely affect us in the future. The coal industry has experienced consolidation in recent years, including consolidation among some of our major competitors. As a result, a substantial portion of coal production is from companies that have significantly greater resources than we do. Current or further consolidation in the coal industry or current or future bankruptcy proceedings of coal competitors may or may not adversely affect us. In addition, increases in coal prices could encourage existing producers to expand capacity or could encourage new producers to enter the market. If overcapacity results, the prices of and demand for our coal could significantly decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions.. In addition, we face competition from foreign producers that sell their coal in the export market. Potential changes to international trade agreements, trade concessions or other political and economic arrangements may benefit coal producers operating in countries other than the United States. We may be adversely impacted on the basis of price or other factors with companies that in the future may benefit from favorable foreign trade policies or other arrangements. In addition, coal is sold internationally in U.S. dollars and, as a result, general economic conditions in foreign markets and changes in foreign currency exchange rates may provide our foreign competitors with a competitive advantage. If our competitors' currencies decline against the U.S. dollar or against our foreign customers' local currencies, those competitors may be able to offer lower prices for coal to our customers. Furthermore, if the currencies of our overseas customers were to significantly decline in value in comparison to the U.S. dollar, those customers may seek decreased prices for the coal we sell to them. Consequently, currency fluctuations could adversely affect the competitiveness of our coal in international markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions.. Our business involves many hazards and operating risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. The occurrence of a significant accident or other event that is not fully insured could curtail our operations and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Our coal mining operations are underground mines. Underground mining and related processing activities present inherent risks of injury to persons and damage to property and equipment. Our mines are subject to a number of operating risks that could disrupt operations, decrease production and increase the cost of mining at particular mines for varying lengths of time thereby adversely affecting our operating results. In addition, if an operating risk occurs in our mining operations, we may not be able to produce sufficient amounts of coal to deliver under our multi-year coal contracts. Our inability to satisfy contractual obligations could result in our customers initiating claims against us or canceling their contracts. The operating risks that may have a significant impact on our coal operations include:. • variations in thickness of the layer, or seam, of coal;. • adverse geological conditions, including amounts of rock and other natural materials intruding into the coal seam, that could affect the stability of the roof and the side walls of the mine, which may result in reduced coal production at that mine;. • environmental hazards;. • equipment failures or unexpected maintenance problems;. • fires or explosions, including as a result of methane, coal, coal dust or other explosive materials, and/or other accidents;. • inclement or hazardous weather conditions and natural disasters or other force majeure events;. • seismic activities, ground failures, rock bursts or structural cave-ins or slides;. • delays in moving our longwall equipment;. • railroad derailments;. • security breaches or terroristic acts; and. • other hazards that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution and suspension of operations.. The occurrence of any of these risks at our coal mining operations could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial loss to us as a result of claims for:. • personal injury or loss of life;. • damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, including our coal properties and our coal production or transportation facilities;. • pollution and other environmental damage to our properties or the properties of others;. • potential legal liability and monetary losses;. • regulatory investigations and penalties;. 22. • suspension of our operations; and. • repair and remediation costs.. In addition, the occurrence of any of these events in our coal mining operations which prevents our delivery of coal to a customer and which is not excusable as a force majeure event under our coal sales agreement, could result in economic penalties, suspension or cancellation of shipments or ultimately termination of the coal sales agreement.. Although we, through CONSOL Energy, maintain insurance for a number of risks and hazards, we may not be insured or fully insured against the losses or liabilities that could arise from a significant accident in our coal operations. We or CONSOL Energy may elect not to obtain insurance for any or all of these risks if we or CONSOL Energy believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Moreover, a significant mine accident could potentially cause a mine shutdown. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions.. In addition, if any of the foregoing changes, conditions or events occurs and is not excusable as a force majeure event, any resulting failure on our part to deliver coal to the purchaser under our contracts could result in economic penalties, suspension or cancellation of shipments or ultimately termination of the agreement, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions.. All of our mines are part of a single mining complex and are exclusively located in the Northern Appalachian Basin, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in a single geographic area.. All of our operations are conducted at a single mining complex located in the Northern Appalachian Basin in southwestern Pennsylvania. The geographic concentration of our operations at the Pennsylvania Mining Complex may disproportionately expose us to disruptions in our operations if the region experiences adverse conditions or events, including severe weather, transportation capacity constraints, constraints on the availability of required equipment, facilities, personnel or services, significant governmental regulation or natural disasters. If any of these factors were to impact the Northern Appalachian Basin more than other coal producing regions, our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions will be adversely affected relative to other mining companies that have a more geographically diversified asset portfolio.. The availability and reliability of transportation facilities and fluctuations in transportation costs could affect the demand for our coal or impair our ability to supply coal to our customers.. Transportation logistics play an important role in allowing us to supply coal to our customers. Any significant delays, interruptions or other limitations on the ability to transport our coal could negatively affect our operations. Our coal is transported from the Pennsylvania Mining Complex by rail, truck or a combination of these methods. To reach markets and end customers, our coal may also be transported by barge or by ocean vessels loaded at terminals. Disruption of transportation services because of weather-related problems, strikes, lock-outs, terrorism, governmental regulation, third-party action or other events could temporarily impair our ability to supply coal to customers and adversely affect our profitability. In addition, transportation costs represent a significant portion of the delivered cost of coal and, as a result, the cost of delivery is a critical factor in a customer's purchasing decision. Increases in transportation costs, including increases resulting from emission control requirements and fluctuation in the price of diesel fuel and demurrage, could make our coal less competitive. Any disruption of the transportation services we use or increase in transportation costs could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Any significant downtime of our major pieces of mining equipment, including our preparation plant, could impair our ability to supply coal to our customers and materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. We depend on several major pieces of mining equipment to produce and transport our coal, including, but not limited to, longwall mining systems, continuous mining units, our preparation plant and related facilities, conveyors and transloading facilities. If any of these pieces of equipment or facilities suffered major damage or were destroyed by fire, abnormal wear, flooding, incorrect operation or otherwise, we may be unable to replace or repair them in a timely manner or at a reasonable cost, which would impact our ability to produce and transport coal and materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. All of the coal from our mines is processed at a single preparation plant and loaded on to rail cars using a single train loadout facility. If either of our preparation plant or train loadout facility suffers extended downtime, including from major. 23. damage, or is destroyed, our ability to process and deliver coal to our customers would be materially impacted, which would materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. If our coal customers do not extend existing sales contracts or do not enter into new multi-year coal sales contracts on favorable terms, profitability of our operations could be adversely affected.. During the year ended December 31, 2017 approximately 68% of the coal the Pennsylvania Mining Complex produced was sold under multi-year sales contracts. If a substantial portion of our multi-year sales contracts are modified or terminated, if force majeure is exercised, or if we are unable to replace or extend the contracts or new contracts are priced at lower levels, our profitability would be adversely affected. In addition, if customers refuse to accept shipments of our coal for which they have existing contractual obligations, our revenues will decrease and we may have to reduce production at our mines until such customers honor their contractual obligations and begin accepting shipments of our coal again or we can find an alternative customer.. The profitability of our multi-year coal sales contracts depends on a variety of factors, which vary from contract to contract and fluctuate during the contract term, including our production costs and other factors. Price changes, if any, provided in long-term coal sales contracts may not reflect our cost increases, and therefore, increases in our costs may reduce our profit margins. In addition, during periods of declining market prices, provisions in our long-term coal sales contracts for adjustment or renegotiation of prices and other provisions may increase our exposure to short-term coal price and electric power price volatility. As a result, we may not be able to obtain long-term agreements at favorable prices compared to either market conditions, as they may change from time to time, or our cost structure, which may reduce our profitability.. The loss of, or significant reduction in, purchases by our largest coal customers or the failure of any of our customers to buy and pay for coal they committed to purchase could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows.. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from two customers: Duke Energy and Xcoal Energy. For the year ended December 31, 2017, Duke Energy and Xcoal Energy each accounted for over 10% of our total coal sales. Furthermore, approximately 45% of our total coal sales were derived from our four largest coal customers in fiscal year 2017. At January 1, 2018, we had nine coal sales agreements with Duke Energy and Xcoal Energy that expire at various times in 2018 and 2019. There are inherent risks whenever a significant percentage of total revenues are concentrated with a limited number of customers. Revenues from our largest customers may fluctuate from time to time based on numerous factors, including market conditions, which may be outside of our control. If any of our largest customers experience declining revenues due to market, economic or competitive conditions, we could be pressured to reduce the prices that we charge for our coal, which could have an adverse effect on our margins, profitability, cash flows and financial position. Additionally, one of our customers is currently under bankruptcy protection, which could potentially result in that customer being unable to purchase coal from us at the same levels it did prior to entering into bankruptcy protection. If any customers were to significantly reduce their purchases of coal from us, including by failing to buy and pay for coal they committed to purchase in sales contracts, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions could be adversely affected.. Certain provisions in our multi-year coal sales contracts may provide limited protection during adverse economic conditions, may result in economic penalties to us or permit the customer to terminate the contract.. Price adjustment, \"price reopener\" and other similar provisions in our multi-year coal sales contracts may reduce the protection from coal price volatility traditionally provided by coal sales contracts. Price reopener provisions are present in several of our multi-year coal sales contracts. These price reopener provisions may automatically set a new price based on prevailing market price or, in some instances, require the parties to agree on a new price, sometimes within a specified range of prices. In a limited number of agreements, failure of the parties to agree on a price under a price reopener provision can lead to termination of the contract. Any adjustment or renegotiations leading to a significantly lower contract price could adversely affect our profitability.. Most of our coal sales agreements contain provisions requiring us to deliver coal within certain ranges for specific coal quality characteristics such as heat content, sulfur, ash, moisture, volatile matter, grindability, ash fusion temperature, and size consist. Failure to meet these conditions could result in penalties or rejection of the coal at the election of the customer. Our coal sales contracts also typically contain force majeure provisions allowing for the suspension of performance by either party for the duration of specified events. Force majeure events include, but are not limited to, floods, earthquakes, storms, fire, faults in the coal seam or other geologic conditions, other natural catastrophes, wars, terrorist acts, civil disturbances or disobedience, strikes, railroad transportation delays caused by a force majeure event and actions or restraints by court order and governmental. 24. authority or arbitration award. Depending on the language of the contract, some contracts may terminate upon continuance of an event of force majeure that extends for a period greater than three to twelve months and some contracts may obligate us to perform notwithstanding what would typically be a force majeure event.. Some of our coal sales agreements contain electric power price-related adjustments which result only in positive monthly adjustments to the contracted base price that we receive for our coal. These adjustments vary month to month with the volatility in the electric power markets and during market downturns yield contract prices below expectations. While management considers the expectations and assumptions regarding the electric power price-related adjustments to be reasonable, they are inherently subject to business, economic, competitive, regulatory, and other risks and uncertainties, most of which are beyond our control.. Our ability to collect payments from our customers could be impaired if their creditworthiness declines or if they fail to honor their contracts with us.. Our ability to receive payment for coal sold and delivered depends on the continued creditworthiness of our customers. Many utilities have sold their power plants to non-regulated affiliates or third parties that may be less creditworthy, thereby increasing the risk we bear with respect to payment default. These new power plant owners may have credit ratings that are below investment grade. In addition, some of our customers have been adversely affected by the current industry downturn, which may impact their ability to fulfill their contractual obligations. Competition with other coal suppliers could force us to extend credit to customers and on terms that could increase the risk we bear with respect to payment default. We also have contracts to supply coal to energy trading and brokering customers under which those customer sell coal to end users. If the creditworthiness of our energy trading and brokering customer declines, we may not be able to collect payment for all coal sold. and delivered to this customer. If the creditworthiness of our customers declines significantly, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, if customers refuse to accept shipments of our coal for which they have an existing contractual obligation, our revenues will decrease and we may have to reduce production at our mines until our customers' contractual obligations are honored. Our inability to collect payment from counterparties to our sales contracts may have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions.. To maintain and grow our business, we will be required to make substantial capital expenditures. If we are unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, our ability to make cash distributions may be diminished or our financial leverage could increase.. In order to maintain and grow our business, we will need to make substantial capital expenditures to fund our share of capital expenditures associated with our mines. Maintaining and expanding mines and infrastructure is capital intensive. Specifically, the exploration, permitting and development of coal reserves, mining costs, the maintenance of machinery and equipment and compliance with applicable laws and regulations require substantial capital expenditures. While a significant amount of the capital expenditures required to build out our mining infrastructure has been spent, we must continue to invest capital to maintain or to increase our production. Decisions to increase our production levels could also affect our capital needs.  Our production levels may decrease or may not be able or generate sufficient cash flow, or we may not have access to sufficient financing to continue our production, exploration, permitting and development activities at or above our present levels, and we may be required to defer all or a portion of our capital expenditures. If we do not make sufficient or effective capital expenditures, we will be unable to maintain and grow our business and, as a result, we may be unable to maintain or raise the level of our future cash distributions over the long term. To fund our capital expenditures, we will be required to use cash from our operations, incur debt or sell additional units or other equity securities. Using cash from our operations will reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our ability to obtain bank financing or our ability to access the capital markets for future equity or debt offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering and the covenants in our existing debt agreements, as well as by general economic conditions, contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional limited partner interests may result in significant unitholder dilution and would increase the aggregate amount of cash required to maintain the then current distribution rate, which could materially decrease our ability to pay distributions at the then prevailing distribution rate. While we have historically received funding from our sponsor, none of our sponsor, our general partner or any of their respective affiliates is committed to providing any direct or indirect financial support to fund our growth.. We may not be able to obtain equipment, parts and raw materials in a timely manner, in sufficient quantities or at reasonable costs to support our coal mining operations.. Coal mining consumes large quantities of commodities including steel, copper, rubber products and liquid fuels and requires the use of capital equipment. Some commodities, such as steel, are needed to comply with roof control plans required. 25. by regulation. The prices we pay for commodities and capital equipment are strongly impacted by the global market. A rapid or significant increase in the costs of commodities or capital equipment we use in our operations could impact our mining operations costs because we may have a limited ability to negotiate lower prices and, in some cases, may not have a ready substitute. We use equipment in our coal mining and transportation operations such as continuous mining units, conveyors, shuttle cars, rail cars, locomotives, roof bolters, shearers and shields. We procure this equipment from a concentrated group of suppliers, and obtaining this equipment often involves long lead times. Occasionally, demand for such equipment by mining companies can be high and some types of equipment may be in short supply. Delays in receiving or shortages of this equipment, as well as the raw materials used in the manufacturing of supplies and mining equipment, which, in some cases, do not have ready substitutes, or the cancellation of our supply contracts under which we obtain equipment and other consumables, could limit our ability to obtain these supplies or equipment. In addition, if any of our suppliers experiences an adverse event, or decides to no longer do business with us, we may be unable to obtain sufficient equipment and raw materials in a timely manner or at a reasonable price to allow us to meet our production goals and our revenues may be adversely impacted. We use considerable quantities of steel in the mining process. If the price of steel or other materials increases substantially or if the value of the U.S. dollar declines relative to foreign currencies with respect to certain imported supplies or other products, our operating expenses could increase. Any of the foregoing events could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions.. We may be unsuccessful in integrating the operations of any future acquisitions, including acquisitions involving new lines of business, with our existing operations, and in realizing all or any part of the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions.. From time to time, we may evaluate and acquire assets and businesses that we believe complement our existing assets and business. The assets and businesses we acquire may be dissimilar from our existing lines of business. Acquisitions may require substantial capital or the incurrence of substantial indebtedness. Our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly as a result of future acquisitions. Acquisitions and business expansions involve numerous risks, including the following:. • difficulties in the integration of the assets and operations of the acquired businesses;. • inefficiencies and difficulties that arise because of unfamiliarity with new assets and the businesses associated with them and new geographic areas;. • the possibility that we have insufficient expertise to engage in such activities profitably or without incurring inappropriate amounts of risk; and. • the diversion of management's attention from other operating issues.. Further, unexpected costs and challenges may arise whenever businesses with different operations or management are combined, and we may experience unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition. Entry into certain lines of business may subject us to new laws and regulations with which we are not familiar, and may lead to increased litigation and regulatory risk. Also, following an acquisition, we may discover previously unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business or assets for which we have no recourse under applicable indemnification provisions. If a new business generates insufficient revenue or if we are unable to efficiently manage our expanded operations, our results of operations may be adversely affected.. Restrictions in our Affiliated Company Credit Agreement and our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders.. Our Affiliated Company Credit Agreement limits our ability to, among other things:. • incur or guarantee additional debt;. • make distributions under certain circumstances;. • make certain investments and loans;. • incur certain liens or permit them to exist;. • enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates;. • merge or consolidate with another company; and. • transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of assets.. Our Affiliated Company Credit Agreement contains covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios. For example, we are obligated to maintain at the end of each fiscal quarter (i) a maximum first lien gross leverage ratio of 2.75 to 1.00 and (ii) a maximum total net leverage ratio of 3.25 to 1.00, each of which will be calculated on a consolidated basis for the Partnership and its restricted subsidiaries at the end of each fiscal quarter. Our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure that we will meet any such ratios.. 26. The restrictions in our Affiliated Company Credit Agreement and our level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following:. • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms;. • our funds available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders will be reduced by that portion of our cash flow required to make interest payments on our debt;. • we may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and. • our flexibility in planning for and responding to changing business and economic conditions may be limited.. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service any future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or issuing equity. We may not be able to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all.. In addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of our Affiliated Company Credit Agreement could result in a default or an event of default that could enable our lenders to declare the outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable. If the payment of our debt is accelerated, our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and our unitholders could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. Please read \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Capital Resources and Liquidity.\". Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our business.. We have exposure to increases in interest rates. Based on our current debt level of $196,583 as of December 31, 2017, comprised of funds drawn under our Affiliate Company Credit Agreement, an increase of one percentage point in the interest rate will result in an increase in annual interest expense of $1,966. As a result, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders, could be materially adversely affected by significant increases in interest rates.. The amount of distributable cash flow that we have available for distribution to our unitholders depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on our profitability, which may prevent us from making distributions, even during periods in which we record net income.. The amount of distributable cash flow that we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow and not solely on our profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record a net loss for financial accounting purposes; and conversely, we might determine not to make cash distributions during periods when we record net income for financial accounting purposes.. Our mines are located in areas containing oil and natural gas shale plays, which may require us to coordinate our operations with oil and natural gas drillers.. All of our coal reserves are in areas containing shale oil and natural gas plays, including the Marcellus Shale, which are currently the subject of substantial exploration for oil and natural gas, particularly by horizontal drilling. If we have received a permit for our mining activities, then while we will have to coordinate our mining with such oil and natural gas drillers, our mining activities will have priority over any oil and natural gas drillers with respect to the land covered by our permit. For reserves outside of our permits, we engage in discussions with drilling companies on potential areas on which they can drill that may have a minimal effect on our mine plan. If a well is in the path of our mining for coal on land that has not yet been permitted for our mining activities, we may not be able to mine through the well unless we purchase it. Although in the past we have purchased vertical wells, the cost of purchasing a producing horizontal well could be substantially greater than that of a vertical well. Horizontal wells with multiple laterals extending from the well pad may access larger oil and natural gas reserves than a vertical well, which would typically result in a higher cost to acquire. The cost associated with purchasing oil and natural gas wells that are in the path of our coal mining activities may make mining through those wells uneconomical, thereby effectively causing a loss of significant portions of our coal reserves, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions.. Our ability to operate our business effectively could be impaired if CONSOL Energy fails to attract and retain skilled personnel, or if a meaningful segment of its employees become unionized.. 27. Our ability to operate our business and implement our strategies depends, in part, on CONSOL Energy's continued ability to attract and retain the skilled personnel necessary to conduct our business. Efficient coal mining using modern techniques and equipment requires skilled laborers in multiple disciplines such as electricians, equipment operators, mechanics, engineers and welders, among others. Although CONSOL Energy has not historically encountered shortages for these types of skilled labor, competition in the future may increase for such positions, especially as it relates to needs of other industries with respect to these positions, including oil and gas. If CONSOL Energy experiences shortages of skilled labor in the future, our labor and overall productivity or costs could be materially adversely affected. In the future, we may utilize a greater number of external contractors for portions of our operations. The costs of these contractors have historically been higher than that of our employed laborers. If CONSOL Energy's labor and contractor prices increase, or if it experiences materially increased health and benefit costs with respect to its employees, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. None of CONSOL Energy's employees who conduct mining operations at the Pennsylvania Mining Complex are currently represented by a labor union or covered under a collective bargaining agreement, although many employers in our industry have employees who belong to a union. It is possible that our employees who conduct mining operations at the Pennsylvania Mining Complex may join or seek recognition to form a labor union, or CONSOL Energy may be required to become a labor agreement signatory. If some or all of the employees who conduct mining operations at the Pennsylvania Mining Complex were to become unionized, it could adversely affect productivity, increase labor costs and increase the risk of work stoppages at our mines. If a work stoppage were to occur, it could interfere with operations at the Pennsylvania Mining Complex and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions. In addition, the mere fact that a portion of CONSOL Energy's labor force could be unionized may harm our reputation in the eyes of some investors and thereby negatively affect our common unit price.. We do not have any officers or employees and rely on officers of our general partner and employees of CONSOL Energy.. We are managed and operated by the board of directors and executive officers of our general partner. Our general partner has no field-level employees that conduct mining operations and relies on the employees of CONSOL Energy to conduct mining activities. CONSOL Energy conducts businesses and activities of its own in which we have no economic interest. As a result, there could be material competition for the time and effort of the officers and employees who provide services to both our general partner and to CONSOL Energy. If our general partner and the officers and employees of CONSOL Energy do not devote sufficient attention to the management and operation of our business and activities, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions could be materially adversely affected.. We are a holding company with no independent operations or assets. Distributions to our unitholders are dependent on cash flow generated by our subsidiaries.. We have a holding company structure, meaning the sole source of our earnings and cash flow consists exclusively of the earnings of and cash distributions from our direct and indirect subsidiaries. All of our operations are conducted, and all of our assets are owned, by our direct and indirect subsidiaries. Consequently, our cash flow and our ability to meet our obligations or to pay cash distributions to our unitholders will depend upon the cash flows of our subsidiaries and the payment of funds by our subsidiaries to us in the form of distributions or otherwise. The ability of our subsidiaries to make any payments to us will depend on their earnings, the terms of their indebtedness and legal restrictions applicable to them. In particular, the terms of our. Affiliated Company Credit Agreement place limitations on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay distributions to us, and thus on our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. In the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Terrorist attacks or cyber-incidents could result in information theft, data corruption, operational disruption and/or financial loss.. We have become increasingly dependent upon digital technologies, including information systems, infrastructure and cloud applications and services, to operate our businesses, to process and record financial and operating data, communicate with our employees and business partners, analyze seismic and drilling information, estimate quantities of coal reserves, as well as other activities related to our businesses. Strategic targets, such as energy-related assets, may be at greater risk of future terrorist or cyber attacks than other targets in the United States. Deliberate attacks on our assets, or security breaches in our systems or infrastructure, or the systems or infrastructure of third-parties, or cloud-based applications could lead to corruption or loss of our proprietary data and potentially sensitive data, delays in production or delivery, difficulty in completing and settling transactions, challenges in maintaining our books and records, environmental damage, communication interruptions, other operational disruptions and third-party liability. Our insurance may not protect us against such occurrences. Consequently, it is possible that any of these occurrences, or a combination of them, could have a material adverse effect on our business,. 28. financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make cash distributions. Further, as cyber incidents continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any vulnerability to cyber incidents.. Environmental regulations introduce uncertainty that could adversely impact the market for coal with potential short and long-term liabilities.                    The Partnership's coal business utilizes certain pipelines in connection with its coal businesses. Mitigation permits from the Army Corps of Engineers are typically required for certain impacts these pipelines cause to streams and wetlands. On June 29, 2015 the EPA promulgated a proposed rule called \"Definition of 'Waters of the United States' Under the Clean Water Act.\" The rule expanded the scope of the CWA to include previously non-jurisdictional streams, wetlands, and waters, making these areas jurisdictional inter-coastal waters of the U.S. On August 27, 2015, the District Court of North Dakota blocked implementation of the rule in 13 states prior to the rule's effective date of August 28, 2015. On October 9, 2015, the Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit blocked implementation of the rule nationwide. On February 28, 2017, Presidential Executive Order on \"Restoring the Rule of Law, Federalism, and Economic Growth by reviewing the 'Waters of the United States' Rule\" was issued. In response, on June 27, 2017, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Department of the Army, and the Army Corps of Engineers issued a rule proposing to re-codify the definition of \"waters of the United States\" to the text that existed prior to the 2015 Clean Water Rule. The proposed rule provides certainty in the interim period until a subsequent rulemaking on the definition of \"waters of the United States\" can be finalized. On January 22, 2018, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that challenges to the rule are properly heard by federal district courts and not federal courts of appeal. Legal scholars are not in agreement about how the decision impacts the Sixth Circuit's stay of the rule.  Meanwhile, the current Administration is working to rescind and replace the rulemaking that would re-establish the 1986 rule and implement the 2008 guidance, which is less onerous than the currently litigated rule. The EPA has stated that it intends to repeal the rule in April 2018.. Management and regulation of point source discharges covered under the National Pollutant Discharge Eliminations System (NPDES) of the CWA have undergone recent changes and proposed changes at both the state and federal level that have the potential to affect the long-term treatment and discharge of water from coal mines. CWA section 304(b) requires EPA to annually review and, if appropriate, revise Effluent Guidelines. States are required by the CWA to conduct a comprehensive review of the state water quality standards every three years. On December 23, 2016 EPA published a draft Field-Based Methods for Developing Aquatic Life Criteria for Specific Conductivity, which could impact NPDES permits with conductivity limits. However, this draft document is also under review pursuant to Executive Order 13783.. Regulation of greenhouse gas emissions may increase our operating costs and reduce the value of our coal assets and such regulation, as well as uncertainty concerning such regulation could adversely impact the market for coal, as well as for our securities.. While climate change legislation in the U.S. is unlikely in the next several years, the issue of global climate change continues to attract considerable public and scientific attention with widespread concern about the impacts of human activity, especially the emissions of greenhouse gases (\"GHGs\") such as carbon dioxide and methane. Combustion of fossil fuels, such as the coal we produce, results in the creation of carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere by coal end-users, such as coal-fired electric power generation plants. Numerous proposals have been made and are likely to continue to be made at the international, national, regional and state levels of government that are intended to limit emissions of GHGs. Several states have already adopted measures requiring reduction of GHGs within state boundaries. Other states have elected to participate in voluntary regional cap-and-trade programs like the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative in the northeastern U.S. Additionally, increasing attention to climate change risk has resulted in an increased possibility of governmental investigations and, potentially, private litigation against the Partnership.. The Obama Administration laid out the Climate Action Plan to limit emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) from coal-fired and natural gas-fired power plants. The EPA proposed numerous regulatory actions to address CO2, including New Source Performance Standards for CO2 from both new power plants and existing and modified/reconstructed power plants. The agency's CPP Rule, which went into effect on December 22, 2015, set state-specific rate-based goals for CO2 emissions from existing fossil fuel-fired electric generating units, and created emission guidelines for states to follow in developing plans to address greenhouse gas emissions from existing fossil fuel-fired electric generating units. Numerous petitions challenging the CPP Rule were consolidated into one case, West Virginia v. EPA. While the litigation was still ongoing at the circuit court level, a mid-litigation application to the Supreme Court resulted in a stay of the CPP Rule. On September 27, 2016, an en banc panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit heard oral arguments in the case. The decision, originally expected in early 2017, has been stayed as a result of a March 28, 2017 executive order directing the EPA to begin the process of reviewing and possibly rescinding the CPP Rule. The EPA filed a motion and the motion was granted by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit requesting the stay while the EPA conducts their review of the CPP Rule. If the review does not result in any rule. 29. changes, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit will rule on the legality of the CPP Rule. On October 16, 2017, the EPA published a proposed rule which, if finalized, would rescind the CPP Rule.. The current Administration's executive order promoting energy independence and economic growth issued on March 28,. 2017 requires the review of existing regulations that potentially burden the development or use of domestically produced energy resources. The review of existing regulations may not result in any changes and any changes made to existing regulations may not produce the intended favorable results desired by the new Administration. The executive order also directed the Council on Environmental Quality to rescind its final guidance entitled, \"Final Guidance for Federal Departments and Agencies on Consideration of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and the Effects of Climate Change in National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) Reviews.\" The guidance previously directed agencies to consider proposed actions and their effects on climate change (GHG emissions would have been a key indicator being assessed under any NEPA review). Such review considerations may have created additional delays or costs in any NEPA review processes for energy producers and generators and may have prevented the acquisition of any necessary federal approvals for energy producers and generators.. Internationally, the Kyoto Protocol, which set binding emission targets for developed countries (which was not ratified by the United States) was nominally extended past its expiration date of December 2012 with a requirement for a new legal construct to be put into place by 2015.  In December 2015, the United Nations Climate Change Conference was held and an agreement was reached between the countries participating in the conference, including the United States, to limit global warming to less than 2 degrees Celsius (3.6° Fahrenheit) compared to pre-industrial levels.  This agreement, known as the Paris Agreement, calls for zero net anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions to be reached during the second half of the 21st century. Each party is to prepare a plan on its contributions to reach this goal; each plan is to be filed in a publicly available registry. The Paris Agreement does not create any binding obligations for nations to limit their GHG emissions but rather includes pledges to voluntarily limit or reduce future emissions. Although the United States became a party to the Paris Agreement in April 2016, the current Administration subsequently terminated its participation in June 2017. However, the Paris Agreement stipulates that participating countries must wait four years before withdrawing from the agreement.. Additionally, coalbed methane must be expelled from our underground coal mines for mining safety reasons and is vented into the atmosphere when the coal is mined. Coalbed methane has a greater GHG effect than carbon dioxide. If regulation of GHG emissions does not exempt the release of coalbed methane, we may have to further reduce our methane emissions, pay higher taxes, incur costs to purchase credits that permit us to continue operations as they now exist at our underground coal mines or perhaps curtail coal production. In 2010, the EPA declined a petition to regulate methane emissions from coal mines, and on May 13, 2014 the U.S. Court of Appeals upheld the EPA's denial of the petition.. Apart from governmental regulation, investment banks based both domestically and internationally have announced that they have adopted climate change guidelines for lenders. The guidelines require the evaluation of carbon risks in the financing of electric power generation plants which may make it more difficult for utilities to obtain financing for coal-fired plants.. Adoption of comprehensive legislation or regulation focusing on GHG emission reductions for the United States or other countries where we sell coal, or the inability of utilities to obtain financing in connection with coal-fired plants, may make it more costly to operate fossil fuel fired (especially coal-fired) electric power generation plants and make fossil fuels less attractive for electric utility power plants in the future. Depending on the nature of the regulation or legislation, natural. gas-fueled power generation could become more economically attractive than coal-fueled power generation. Apart from actual regulation, uncertainty over the extent of regulation of GHG emissions may inhibit utilities from investing in the building of new coal-fired plants to replace older plants or investing in the upgrading of existing coal-fired plants. Any reduction or substantial delay in the amount of coal consumed by domestic electric power generators as a result of actual or potential regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could decrease demand for our fossil fuels, thereby reducing our revenues and materially and adversely affecting our business and results of operations. Our customers may also have to invest in carbon dioxide capture and storage technologies in order to burn coal and comply with future GHG emission standards.. In addition, there have also been efforts in recent years affecting the investment community, including investment advisors, sovereign wealth funds, public pension funds, universities and other groups, promoting the divestment of fossil fuel equities and also pressuring lenders to limit funding to companies engaged in the extraction of fossil fuel reserves.  The impact of such efforts may adversely affect the demand for and price of securities issued by us, and impact our access to the capital and financial markets.. 30. The characteristics of coal may make it costly for electric power generators and other coal users to comply with various environmental standards regarding the emissions of impurities released when coal is burned which could cause utilities to replace coal-fired power plants with alternative fuels. In addition, various incentives have been proposed to encourage the generation of electricity from renewable energy sources. A reduction in the use of coal for electric power generation could decrease the volume of our domestic coal sales and adversely affect our results of operations.. Coal contains impurities, including sulfur, mercury, chlorine and other elements or compounds, many of which are released into the air along with fine particulate matter and carbon dioxide when it is burned. Complying with regulations on these emissions can be costly for electric power generators. For example, in order to meet the federal Clean Air Act limits for sulfur dioxide emissions from electric power plants, coal users will need to install scrubbers, use sulfur dioxide emission allowances (some of which they may purchase) or switch to other fuels. Each option has limitations. Lower sulfur coal may be more costly to purchase on an energy basis than higher sulfur coal depending on mining and transportation costs. The cost of installing scrubbers is significant and emission allowances may become more expensive as their availability declines. Switching to other fuels may require expensive modification of existing plants. Because higher sulfur coal currently accounts for a significant portion of our sales, the extent to which electric power generators switch to alternative fuel could materially affect us. Recent Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) rulemaking proceedings requiring additional reductions in permissible emission levels of impurities by coal-fired plants will likely make it more costly to operate coal-fired electric power plants and may make coal a less attractive fuel alternative for electric power generation in the future. Examples are (i) implementation of the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule to require reductions of seasonal nitrogen oxides emissions from power plants in the eastern United States to address ozone pollution; and (ii) the Utility Maximum Achievable Control Technology rule, better known as the Mercury and Air Toxics Standard rule, which included more stringent new source performance standards for particulate matter, mercury, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides, for new and existing coal-fired power plants. The rule was rejected by the U.S. Supreme Court on June 29, 2015 and sent back to the D.C. Circuit Court to determine whether to remand and allow the EPA to address the rule's deficiencies or to vacate and nullify the rule; nevertheless most coal-fired electric power generators have already taken steps to comply with the rule. On April 18, 2017 the EPA asked the Court to delay arguments over Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (MATs) to allow the Trump Administration time to fully review the findings. On April 21, 2017, the Court granted the requested stay.. Apart from actual and potential regulation of emissions, water use, waste water discharge and solid waste management from coal-fired plants, state and federal mandates for increased use of electricity from renewable energy sources could have an impact on the market for our coal. Several states have enacted legislative mandates requiring electricity suppliers to use renewable energy sources to generate a certain percentage of power. There have been numerous proposals to establish a similar uniform, national standard although none of these proposals have been enacted to date.. Possible advances in technologies and incentives, such as tax credits, to enhance the economics of renewable energy sources could make these sources more competitive with coal. Any reductions in the amount of coal consumed by domestic electric power generators as a result of current or new standards for the emission of impurities or incentives to switch to alternative fuels or renewable energy sources could reduce the demand for our coal, thereby reducing our revenues and adversely affecting our business and results of operations.. Existing and future government laws, regulations and other legal requirements relating to protection of the environment, and others that govern our business may increase our costs of doing business for coal and may restrict our coal operations.. We are subject to laws, regulations and other legal requirements enacted or adopted by federal, state and local authorities, as well as foreign authorities relating to protection of the environment. These include those legal requirements that govern discharges of substances into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, groundwater quality and availability, threatened and endangered plant and wildlife protection, reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining is completed, the installation of various safety equipment in our mines, remediation of impacts of surface subsidence from underground mining, and work practices related to employee health and safety. Complying with these requirements, including the terms of our permits, has had, and will continue to have, a significant effect on our costs of operations and competitive position. In addition, there is the possibility that we could incur substantial costs as a result of violations under environmental laws. Any additional laws, regulations and other legal requirements enacted or adopted by federal, state and local authorities, as well as foreign authorities or new interpretations of existing legal requirements by regulatory bodies relating to the protection of the environment could further affect our costs of operations and competitive position. The Clean Water Act is being used by opponents of mountain top removal mining as a means to challenge permits and bring citizen suits to make coal mining more expensive.. Our operations may impact the environment or cause exposure to hazardous substances, and our properties may have environmental contamination, which could result in liabilities to us.. 31. Our operations currently use hazardous materials and generate limited quantities of hazardous wastes from time to time. Drainage flowing from or caused by mining activities can be acidic with elevated levels of dissolved metals, a condition referred to as \"acid mine drainage.\" We could become subject to claims for toxic torts, natural resource damages and other damages as well as for the investigation and clean-up of soil, surface water, groundwater, and other media. Such claims may arise, for example, out of conditions at sites that we currently own or operate, as well as at sites that we previously owned or operated, or may acquire. Our liability for such claims may be joint and several, so that we may be held responsible for more than our share of the contamination or other damages, or for the entire share.. We maintain coal refuse areas and slurry impoundments at the Pennsylvania Mining Complex. Such areas and impoundments are subject to extensive regulation. Structural failure of a slurry impoundment or coal refuse area could result in extensive damage to the environment and natural resources, such as bodies of water that the coal slurry reaches, as well as liability for related personal injuries and property damages, and injuries to wildlife. Some of our impoundments overlie mined out areas, which can pose a heightened risk of failure and of damages arising out of failure. If one of our impoundments were to fail, we could be subject to claims for the resulting environmental contamination and associated liability, as well as for fines and penalties.. These and other similar unforeseen impacts that our operations may have on the environment, as well as exposures to hazardous substances or wastes associated with our operations, could result in costs and liabilities that could adversely affect us. An example of this is Naturally Occurring Radioactive Material (NORM) or Technologically-Enhanced, Naturally Occurring Radioactive Material (TENORM). NORM or TENORM is produced when activities such as deep drilling concentrate or expose radioactive materials that occur naturally in ores, soils, water, or other natural materials. State and federal agencies are examining the possibility for worker exposure or associated environmental hazards due to processing and disposal of wastes containing NORM or TENORM.. We must obtain, maintain and renew governmental permits and approvals which if we cannot obtain in a timely manner would reduce our production, cash flow and results of operations.. Our coal production is dependent on our ability to obtain various federal and state permits and approvals to mine our coal reserves. The permitting rules, and the interpretations of these rules, are complex, change frequently and are often subject to discretionary interpretations by regulators. The EPA also has the authority to veto permits issued by the Army Corps of Engineers under the Clean Water Act's Section 404 program that prohibits the discharge of dredged or fill material into regulated waters without a permit. In addition, the public, including non-governmental organizations and individuals, have certain statutory rights to comment upon and otherwise impact the permitting process, including through court intervention. The pace with which the government issues permits needed for new operations and/or for on-going operations to continue mining continues to pose significant negative effects. Further, in 2011 the EPA revoked an Army Corps of Engineers issued Section 404 permit to a coal mining operator. Following the U.S. Supreme Court's refusal in March 2012 to hear an appeal from the D.C. Circuit Court's ruling upholding the EPA's power to revoke a permit, in September 2014 the U.S. Court of Appeals upheld the EPA's action to revoke the permit. In addition, in July 2014 the D.C. Circuit reversed a lower court's decision and affirmed the EPA's authority to adopt the Enhanced Coordination Process governing coordination with the Army Corps of Engineers in the processing of CWA permits. The Court also rejected challenges to EPA's 2012 \"Final Guidance\" document regarding appropriate permit conditions, namely those affecting acceptable conductivity limits (e.g., acceptable ionic strength to support aquatic life). However, the Court left it up to the states on whether to adopt the guideline recommendations when issuing final NPDES permits. This decision has left coal mining permits in some degree of uncertainty whether the EPA will concur with a state's draft permit conditions should they not contain specified limits regarding conductivity, further increasing operational uncertainty and costs.. Our mines are subject to stringent federal and state safety regulations that increase our cost of doing business at active operations and may place restrictions on our methods of operation. In addition, government inspectors, under certain circumstances, have the ability to order our operations to be shutdown based on safety considerations.. The Federal Coal Mine Safety and Health Act and Mine Improvement and New Emergency Response Act impose stringent health and safety standards on mining operations. Regulations that have been adopted are comprehensive and affect numerous aspects of mining operations, including training of mine personnel, mining procedures, the equipment used in mine  emergency procedures and other matters. Most states in which we operate have programs for mine safety and health regulation and enforcement. The various requirements mandated by law or regulation can place restrictions on our methods of operations, and potentially lead to penalties for the violation of such requirements, creating a significant effect on operating costs and productivity. In addition, government inspectors under certain circumstances, have the ability to order our operation to be. 32. shutdown based on safety considerations. If an incident were to occur at one of our coal mines, it could be shut down for an extended period of time and our reputation with our customers could be materially damaged.. We have reclamation, mine closing obligations and gas well plugging obligations. If the assumptions underlying our accruals are inaccurate, we could be required to expend greater amounts than anticipated.. The Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act as well as various state laws establish operational, reclamation and closure standards for all our coal mining operations and require us, under certain circumstances, to plug natural gas wells. We accrue for the costs of current mine disturbance, gas well plugging and of final mine closure, including the cost of treating mine water discharge where necessary. Estimates of our total reclamation, mine-closing and degasification and well plugging liabilities, which are based upon permit requirements and our experience, were approximately $10,496 at December 31, 2017. The amounts recorded are dependent upon a number of variables, including the estimated future closure costs, estimated proved reserves, assumptions involving profit margins, inflation rates, and the assumed credit-adjusted risk-free interest rates. If these accruals are insufficient or our liability in a particular year is greater than currently anticipated, our future operating results could be adversely affected. Most states where we operate require us to post bonds for the full cost of coal mine reclamation (full cost bonding). West Virginia is not a full cost bonding state. West Virginia has an alternative bond system (ABS) for coal mine reclamation which consists of (i) individual site bonds posted by the permittee that are less than the full estimated reclamation cost plus (ii) a bond pool (Special Reclamation Fund) funded by a per ton fee on coal mined in the State which is used to supplement the site specific bonds if needed in the event of bond forfeiture. In an effort to settle a citizen suit filed in 2012 before the U.S. District Court in West Virginia related to the Special Reclamation Fund being underfunded, the West Virginia legislature authorized an increase in the per ton fee levied on coal production to make up the shortfall. The Special Reclamation Fund became fully funded in June of 2016. There remains the possibility that West Virginia may move to full cost bonding in the future which could cause individual mining companies and/or surety companies to exceed bonding capacity and would result in the need to post cash bonds or letters of credit which would reduce operating capital.. Pennsylvania is expanding its full cost bonding program to cover all coal mine bonding, further increasing the amount of surety bonds we must seek in order to permit our mining activities. We have been able to post surety bonds with the states to secure our reclamation obligations. If our creditworthiness declines, states may seek to require us to post letters of credit or cash collateral to secure those obligations, or we may be unable to obtain surety bonds, in which case we would be required to post letters of credit. Additionally, the sureties that post bonds on our behalf may require us to post security in order to secure the obligations underlying these bonds. Posting letters of credit in place of surety bonds or posting security to support these surety bonds would have an adverse effect on our liquidity.. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us. Our general partner and its affiliates, including CONSOL Energy, have conflicts of interest with us and limited fiduciary duties to us and our unitholders, and they may favor their own interests to our detriment and that of our unitholders. Additionally, we have no control over the business decisions and operations of CONSOL Energy, and CONSOL Energy is under no obligation to adopt a business strategy that favors us.. Our sponsor, CONSOL Energy, owns 5,006,496 common units and 11,611,067 subordinated units, representing 60.6% of the limited partner interest and all of our incentive distribution rights. In addition, our general partner owns a 1.7% general partner interest in us.  Our sponsor also continues to own a 75% undivided interest in the Pennsylvania Mining Complex.. Although our general partner has a duty to manage us in a manner that is in the best interests of our Partnership and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our general partner also have a duty to manage our general partner in a manner that is in the best interests of CONSOL Energy. Conflicts of interest may arise between CONSOL Energy and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interests, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates, including CONSOL Energy, over the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations:. • neither our Partnership Agreement nor any other agreement requires CONSOL Energy to pursue a business strategy that favors us or utilizes our assets, which could involve decisions by CONSOL Energy to pursue and grow particular markets or undertake acquisition opportunities for itself. CONSOL Energy's directors and officers have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interests of CONSOL Energy;. • our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as CONSOL Energy, in resolving conflicts of interest;. • CONSOL Energy may be constrained by the terms of its debt instruments from taking actions, or refraining from taking actions, that may be in our best interests;. 33. • our Partnership Agreement replaces the fiduciary duties that would otherwise be owed by our general partner with contractual standards governing its duties, limiting our general partner's liabilities and restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without such limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under Delaware law;. • except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval;. • our general partner will determine the amount and timing of, among other things, cash expenditures, borrowings and repayments of indebtedness, the issuance of additional partnership interests, the creation, increase or reduction in cash reserves in any quarter and asset purchases and sales, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available for distribution to unitholders;. • our general partner will determine the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and whether a capital expenditure is classified as a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an expansion capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of available cash from operating surplus that is distributed to our unitholders and to our general partner, the amount of adjusted operating surplus generated in any given period and the ability of the subordinated units to convert into common units;. • our general partner will determine which costs and expenses incurred by it are reimbursable by us;. • our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the subordinated units, to make incentive distributions or to accelerate the expiration of the subordination period;. • our Partnership Agreement permits us to distribute up to $50.0 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non-working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus. This cash may be used to fund distributions on our subordinated units or to our general partner in respect of the general partner interest or the incentive distribution rights;. • our Partnership Agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf;. • our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations;. • our general partner may exercise its right to call and purchase all of the common units not owned by it and its affiliates at a price not less than the then-current market price if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of our common units;. • our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our general partner and its affiliates, including obligations under our operating agreement and employee services agreement;. • our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us; and. • CONSOL Energy, which holds all of our incentive distribution rights, or any transferee holding incentive distribution rights, may elect to cause us to issue common units and general partner interests to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights, without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner, which we refer to as our conflicts committee, or our common unitholders. This election could result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations.. Neither our Partnership Agreement nor our omnibus agreement prohibit CONSOL Energy or any other affiliates of our general partner from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Under the terms of our Partnership Agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, will not apply to our general partner or any of its affiliates, including CONSOL Energy. Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us. Consequently, CONSOL Energy and other affiliates of our general partner may acquire, construct or dispose of additional coal assets in the future without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase any of those assets. As a result, competition from CONSOL Energy and other affiliates of our general partner could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and distributable cash flow. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our general partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our unitholders.. Our Partnership Agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions.. Our Partnership Agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash (which is defined in the Partnership Agreement) to our unitholders. As a result, we expect to rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. Therefore, to the extent we are unable to finance our growth externally, our required cash distributions will significantly impair our ability to grow. In addition, because we will distribute all of our available cash, our growth may not be as fast as that of. 34. businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional partnership interests in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional partnership interests may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are no other limitations in our Partnership Agreement on our ability to issue additional partnership interests, including partnership interests ranking senior to our common units as to distributions or in liquidation or that have special voting rights and other rights, and our unitholders will have no preemptive or other rights (solely as a result of their status as unitholders) to purchase any such additional partnership interests. The incurrence of additional commercial bank borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, may reduce the amount of cash that we have available to distribute to our unitholders.. While our Partnership Agreement requires us to distribute all of our available cash, our Partnership Agreement, including the provisions requiring us to make cash distributions, may be amended.. While our Partnership Agreement requires us to distribute all of our available cash, our Partnership Agreement, including the provisions requiring us to make cash distributions, may be amended. During the subordination period, our Partnership Agreement may not be amended without the approval of our public common unitholders, except in a limited number of circumstances when our general partner can amend our Partnership Agreement without any unitholder approval.. However, after the subordination period has ended, our Partnership Agreement may be amended with the consent of our general partner and the approval of a majority of the outstanding common units, including common units owned by our general partner and its affiliates. CONSOL Energy owns an aggregate of approximately 31.7% of our outstanding common units and all of our subordinated units.. Our Partnership Agreement replaces our general partner's fiduciary duties to holders of our units with contractual standards governing its duties.. Delaware law provides that a Delaware limited partnership may, in its Partnership Agreement, expand, restrict or eliminate the fiduciary duties otherwise owed by the general partner to limited partners and the partnership, provided that the Partnership Agreement may not eliminate the implied contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing. This implied covenant is a judicial doctrine utilized by Delaware courts in connection with interpreting ambiguities in Partnership Agreements and other contracts, and does not form the basis of any separate or independent fiduciary duty in addition to the express contractual duties set forth in our Partnership Agreement. Under the implied contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing, a court will enforce the reasonable expectations of the partners where the language in the Partnership Agreement does not provide for a clear course of action.. As permitted by Delaware law, our Partnership Agreement contains provisions that eliminate the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law and replaces those duties with several different contractual standards. For example, our Partnership Agreement permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner, free of any duties to us and our unitholders. This provision entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires and relieves it of any duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our limited partners. Examples of. decisions that our general partner may make in its individual capacity include:. • how to allocate business opportunities among us and affiliates of our general partner;. • whether to exercise its limited call right;. • how to exercise its voting rights with respect to any units it owns;. • whether to exercise its registration rights;. • whether to sell or otherwise dispose of units or other partnership interests that it owns;. • whether to elect to reset target distribution levels;. • whether to consent to any merger, consolidation or conversion of the Partnership or amendment to our Partnership Agreement; and. • whether to refer or not to refer any potential conflict of interest to the conflicts committee for special approval or to seek or not to seek unitholder approval.. By purchasing a unit, a unitholder is treated as having consented to the provisions in our Partnership Agreement, including the provisions discussed above.. Our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our obligations.. 35. Our general partner intends to limit its liability under contractual arrangements so that counterparties to such agreements have recourse only against our assets and not against our general partner or its assets or any affiliate of our general partner or its assets. Our general partner may therefore cause us to incur indebtedness or other obligations that are nonrecourse to our general partner. Our Partnership Agreement provides that any action taken by our general partner to limit its liability is not a breach of our general partner's duties, even if we could have obtained terms that are more favorable without the limitation on liability. In addition, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify our general partner to the extent that it incurs obligations on our behalf. Any such reimbursement or indemnification payments would reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for. distribution to our unitholders.. Our Partnership Agreement restricts the remedies available to holders of our common units and subordinated units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.. Our Partnership Agreement contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state fiduciary duty law. For example, our Partnership Agreement provides that:. • whenever our general partner makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in its capacity as our general partner, our general partner is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith, meaning that it subjectively believed that the determination or the decision to take or decline to take such action was in the best interests of our Partnership, and will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by our Partnership Agreement, Delaware law, or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity;. • our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith;. • our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners resulting from any act or omission unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or its officers and directors, as the case may be, acted in bad faith or engaged in intentional fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and. • our general partner will not be in breach of its obligations under our Partnership Agreement or its duties to us or our limited partners if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is approved in accordance with, or otherwise meets the standards set forth in, our Partnership Agreement.. In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, our Partnership Agreement provides that any determination by our general partner must be made in good faith, and that our general partner, our conflicts committee and the board of directors of our general partner are entitled to a presumption that they acted in good faith. In any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the Partnership, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption.. Cost and expense reimbursements, which will be determined by our general partner in its sole discretion, and fees due to our general partner and its affiliates for services provided will be substantial and will reduce our distributable cash flow.. Under our Partnership Agreement, we are required to reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all direct and indirect expenses it incurs or payments it makes on our behalf and all other expenses allocable to us or otherwise incurred by our general partner and its affiliates in connection with managing and operating our business and affairs (including expenses allocated to our general partner by its affiliates). Except to the extent specified under our omnibus agreement and the other agreements described under \"Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions - Agreements with Affiliates,\" our general partner determines the amount of these expenses. Under the terms of the omnibus agreement we will be required to reimburse CONSOL Energy for the provision of certain administrative support services to us. Under our employee services. agreement, we will be required to reimburse CONSOL Energy for all direct third-party and allocated costs and expenses actually incurred by CONSOL Energy in providing operational services. Our general partner and its affiliates also may provide us other services for which we will be charged fees as determined by our general partner. The costs and expenses for which we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates may include reimbursements for salary, bonus, incentive compensation and other amounts paid to affiliates of our general partner for the costs incurred in providing services for us or on our behalf and expenses allocated to our general partner by its affiliates. The costs and expenses for which we are required to reimburse our general partner and its affiliates are not subject to any caps or other limits under our Partnership Agreement. The total amount of such reimbursed expenses was $2,248 for the year ended December 31, 2017. Payments to our general partner and its affiliates may be substantial and may reduce the amount of cash we have available to distribute to unitholders.. 36. Unitholders have very limited voting rights and, even if they are dissatisfied, they will have limited ability to remove our general partner.. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. For example, unlike holders of stock in a public corporation, unitholders will not have \"say-on-pay\" advisory voting rights. Unitholders did not elect our general partner or the board of directors of our general partner and will have no right to elect our general partner or the board of directors of our general partner on an annual or other continuing basis. Through its direct ownership of our general partner, CONSOL Energy has the right to appoint the entire board of directors of our general partner, including our independent directors. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which our common units will trade could be. diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price.. Our general partner may not be removed unless such removal is both (i) for cause and (ii) approved by a vote of the holders of at least 66.67% of the outstanding units, including any units owned by our general partner and its affiliates, voting together as a single class. \"Cause\" is narrowly defined under our Partnership Agreement to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding our general partner liable to us or any limited partner for intentional fraud or willful misconduct in its capacity as our general partner. Cause does not include most cases of charges of poor management of the business. CONSOL Energy owns 60.6% of our total outstanding common units and subordinated units on an aggregate basis. This will give CONSOL Energy the ability to prevent the removal of our general partner.. Furthermore, unitholders' voting rights are further restricted by the Partnership Agreement provision providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees, and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. Our Partnership Agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders' ability to influence the manner or direction of management.. The restrictions in our Partnership Agreement applicable to holders of 20% or more of any class of our outstanding partnership interests do not apply to Greenlight Capital.. Unitholders' voting rights are restricted by the Partnership Agreement provision providing that any units held by a person or group that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons or groups who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. In connection with the Concurrent Private Placement, our general partner waived this provision with respect to Greenlight Capital. As a result of this waiver, the common units purchased by Greenlight Capital in the Concurrent Private Placement are generally considered to be outstanding under our Partnership Agreement and will be entitled to vote on any matter on which the common unitholders are otherwise entitled to vote. Greenlight Capital owns 34.8% of our outstanding common units.. Our general partner interest or the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest in us to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in our Partnership Agreement on the ability of CONSOL Energy to transfer its membership interest in our general partner to a third party after June 30, 2025 without the consent of the unitholders. The new owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with its own choices.. The incentive distribution rights of CONSOL Energy may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.. Subject to the Affiliated Company Credit Agreement, CONSOL Energy may transfer its incentive distribution rights to a third party at any time without the consent of our unitholders. If CONSOL Energy transfers its incentive distribution rights to a third party, our general partner, which is owned by CONSOL Energy, may not have the same incentive to grow our Partnership and increase quarterly distributions to unitholders over time as it would if CONSOL Energy had retained ownership of its incentive distribution rights. For example, a transfer of incentive distribution rights by CONSOL Energy could reduce the likelihood that it will sell or contribute additional assets to us, as CONSOL Energy would have less of an economic incentive to grow our business, which in turn would impact our ability to grow our asset base.. 37. We may issue an unlimited number of additional partnership interests without unitholder approval, which would dilute our then-existing unitholders' proportionate ownership interests in us.. At any time, we may issue an unlimited number of general partner interests or limited partner interests of any type without the approval of our unitholders and our unitholders will have no preemptive or other rights (solely as a result of their status as unitholders) to purchase any such general partner interests or limited partner interests. Further, there are no limitations in our Partnership Agreement on our ability to issue equity securities that rank equal or senior to our common units as to distributions or in liquidation or that have special voting rights and other rights.. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects:. • our then-existing unitholders' proportionate ownership interests in us will decrease;. • the amount of cash we have available to distribute on each unit may decrease;. • because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase;. • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase;. • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and. • the market price of our common units may decline.. The issuance by us of additional general partner interests may have the following effects, among others, if such general partner interests are issued to a person who is not an affiliate of CONSOL Energy:. • management of our business may no longer reside solely with our current general partner; and. • affiliates of the newly admitted general partner may compete with us, and neither that general partner nor such affiliates will have any obligation to present business opportunities to us except with respect to rights of first offer contained in our omnibus agreement.. CONSOL Energy and Greenlight Capital may sell units in the public or private markets, and such sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units.. CONSOL Energy holds 5,006,496 common units and 11,611,067 subordinated units. All of the subordinated units will convert into common units at the end of the subordination period.  In addition, Greenlight Capital holds 5,488,438 common units, per public filings. We also agreed to provide CONSOL Energy and Greenlight Capital with certain registration rights under applicable securities laws. The sale of these units described above in the public or private markets could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units or on any trading market that may develop.. Our general partner's discretion in establishing cash reserves may reduce the amount of cash we have available to distribute to unitholders.. Our Partnership Agreement requires our general partner to deduct from operating surplus the cash reserves that it determines are necessary to fund our future operating expenditures. In addition, the Partnership Agreement permits the general partner to reduce available cash by establishing cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business, to comply with applicable law or agreements to which we are a party, or to provide funds for future distributions to partners. These cash reserves will affect the amount of cash we have available to distribute to unitholders.. Affiliates of our general partner, including, but not limited to, CONSOL Energy, may compete with us, and neither our general partner nor its affiliates have any obligation to present business opportunities to us.. Neither our Partnership Agreement nor our omnibus agreement will prohibit CONSOL Energy or any other affiliates of our general partner from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Under the terms of our Partnership Agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, will not apply to our general partner or any of its affiliates, including CONSOL Energy. Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us. Consequently, CONSOL Energy and other affiliates of our general partner may acquire, construct or dispose of additional coal assets in the future without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase any of those assets. Moreover, neither. 38. CONSOL Energy nor any of its affiliates have a contractual obligation to present us the opportunity to purchase additional assets from it, and we are unable to predict whether or when such an opportunity may be presented to us. As a result, competition from CONSOL Energy and other affiliates of our general partner could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and distributable cash flow.. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require you to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price.. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of our then-outstanding common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, common unit holders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. They may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. Our general partner and its affiliates own approximately 31.7% of our common units (excluding any common units purchased by the directors, director nominees and executive officers of our general partner, directors of CONSOL Energy and certain other individuals as selected by CONSOL Energy under our directed unit program). At the end of the subordination period, our general partner and its affiliates will own approximately 60.6% of our outstanding common units (excluding any common units purchased by the directors, director nominee and executive officers of our general partner, directors of CONSOL Energy and certain other individuals as selected by CONSOL Energy under our directed unit program) and therefore would not be able to exercise the call right at that time.. Unitholders may have to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them.. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act (the \"Delaware Act\"), we may not make a distribution to the common unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Transferees of common units are liable for the obligations of the transferor to make contributions to the Partnership that are known to the transferee at the time of the transfer and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from our Partnership Agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the Partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted.. CONSOL Energy, or any transferee holding incentive distribution rights, may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights, without the approval of our conflicts committee or our common unitholders. The exercise of this election could result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations.. CONSOL Energy has the right, at any time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and it has received distributions on its incentive distribution rights at the highest level to which it is entitled (48%) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters and the amount of such distribution did not exceed the adjusted operating surplus for such quarter, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our distributions at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election, the minimum quarterly distribution will be adjusted to equal the reset minimum quarterly distribution, and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution.. If CONSOL Energy elects to reset the target distribution levels, it will be entitled to receive a number of common units. The number of common units to be issued to CONSOL Energy will be equal to that number of common units that would have entitled their holder to an average aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the prior two quarters equal to the average of the distributions to our general partner on the incentive distribution rights in such two quarters. We anticipate that CONSOL Energy would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion. It is possible, however, that CONSOL Energy could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may, therefore, desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. This risk could be elevated if our incentive distribution rights have been transferred to a third party. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions that they would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units and general partner interests in connection with resetting the target distribution levels. Additionally, CONSOL Energy has the right to transfer all or any portion of our incentive distribution rights at any time, and such transferee shall have the same rights as CONSOL Energy relative to resetting target distributions if our general partner concurs that the tests for resetting target distributions have been fulfilled.. 39. Units held by persons who our general partner determines are not \"eligible holders\" at the time of any requested certification in the future may be subject to redemption.. As a result of certain laws and regulations to which we are or may in the future become subject, we may require owners of our common units to certify that they are both U.S. citizens and subject to U.S. federal income taxation on our income. Units held by persons who our general partner determines are not \"eligible holders\" at the time of any requested certification in the future may be subject to redemption. \"Eligible holders\" are limited partners whose (or whose owners') (i) U.S. federal income tax status or lack of proof of U.S. federal income tax status does not have and is not reasonably likely to have, as determined by our general partner, a material adverse effect on the maximum applicable rates that can be charged to customers by us or our subsidiaries and (ii) nationality, citizenship or other related status does not create and is not reasonably likely to create, as. determined by our general partner, a substantial risk of cancellation or forfeiture of any property in which we have an interest. The aggregate redemption price for redeemable interests will be an amount equal to the current market price (the date of determination of which will be the date fixed for redemption) of limited partner interests of the class to be so redeemed multiplied by the number of limited partner interests of each such class included among the redeemable interests. For these purposes, the \"current market price\" means, as of any date for any class of limited partner interests, the average of the daily closing prices per limited partner interest of such class for the 20 consecutive trading days immediately prior to such date. The redemption price will be paid in cash or by delivery of a promissory note, as determined by our general partner. The units held by any person the general partner determines is not an eligible holder will not be entitled to voting rights.. Our Partnership Agreement designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our unitholders, which limits our unitholders' ability to choose the judicial forum for disputes with us or our general partner's directors, officers or other employees.. Our Partnership Agreement provides that, with certain limited exceptions, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (or, if such court does not have subject matter jurisdiction thereof, any other court located in the State of Delaware with subject matter jurisdiction) shall be the exclusive forum for any claims, suits, actions or proceedings (i) arising out of or relating in any way to our Partnership Agreement (including any claims, suits or actions to interpret, apply or enforce the provisions of our Partnership Agreement or the duties, obligations or liabilities among our partners, or obligations or liabilities of our partners to us, or the rights or powers of, or restrictions on, our partners or us), (ii) brought in a derivative manner on our behalf, (iii) asserting a claim of breach of a duty owed by any of our, or our general partner's, directors, officers, or other employees, or owed by our general partner, to us or our partners, (iv) asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware Act or (v) asserting a claim against us governed by the internal affairs doctrine. In addition, our Partnership Agreement provides that each limited partner irrevocably waives the right to trial by jury in any such claim, suit, action or proceeding. By purchasing a common unit, a limited partner is irrevocably consenting to these limitations and provisions regarding claims, suits, actions or proceedings and submitting to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (or such other court) in connection with any such claims, suits, actions or proceedings. These provisions may have the effect of discouraging lawsuits against us and our general partner's directors and officers.. The NYSE does not require a publicly traded limited partnership like us to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements.. Our common units are listed on the NYSE. Because we are a publicly traded limited partnership, the NYSE does not require us to have a majority of independent directors on our general partner's board of directors or to establish a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee. Additionally, any future issuance of additional common units or other securities, including to affiliates, are not subject to the NYSE's shareholder approval rules that apply to a corporation. Accordingly, unitholders do not have the same protections afforded to certain corporations that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements.. Tax Risks. Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If the Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") were to treat us as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which would subject us to entity-level taxation, or if we were otherwise subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation, then our distributable cash flow to our unitholders would be substantially reduced.. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter affecting us. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a. 40. partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A change in our business or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity.. If we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would pay U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 21%, and would likely pay state and local income tax at varying rates. Distributions would generally be taxed again as corporate dividends (to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits), and no income, gains, losses, deductions, or credits would flow through to a unitholder. In addition, changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states. Because of state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. For example, Pennsylvania may assess a partnership level tax if the partnership is found to have underreported income by more than $1,000,000 in any tax year. Imposition of any such taxes may substantially reduce our distributable cash flow. Therefore, if we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, or otherwise subjected to a material amount of entity-level taxation, there would be a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our units.. Our Partnership Agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution levels may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us.. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis.. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, from time to time, members of Congress and the President propose and consider substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships, including the elimination of the qualifying income exception upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.  Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be retroactively applied and could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the exception for us to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. However, it is possible that a change in law could affect us, and any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our units.. Our unitholders' allocated share of our income will be taxable to them for U.S. federal income tax purposes even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us.. Because a unitholder will be treated as a partner to whom we will allocate taxable income that could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, a unitholder's allocable share of our taxable income will be taxable to it, which may require the payment of federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes, on its share of our taxable income even if it receives no cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income.. If the IRS contests the U.S. federal income tax positions we take, the market for our units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our distributable cash flow to our unitholders.. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. We intend to furnish to each unitholder, within 90 days after the close of each calendar year, specific tax information, including a Schedule K-1, which describes his or her share of our income, gains, losses and deductions for our preceding taxable year. In preparing this information, we will take various accounting and reporting positions. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the conclusions of our counsel expressed in this report or from the positions we take, and the IRS's positions may ultimately be sustained in an audit of our U.S. federal income tax information returns. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of our counsel's conclusions or the positions we take and such positions may not ultimately be sustained. A court may not agree with some or all of our counsel's conclusions or the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS, and the outcome of any IRS contest, may have a materially adverse impact on the market for our units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our distributable cash flow. Adjustments resulting from an IRS audit may require each unitholder to adjust a prior year's tax liability, and. 41. possibly may result in an audit of his or her return. Any audit to a unitholder's return could result in adjustments not related to our returns, as well as those related to our returns.. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our units could be more or less than expected.. If our unitholders sell units, they will recognize a gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those units. Because distributions in excess of their allocable share of our net taxable income decrease their tax basis in their units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units a unitholder sells will, in effect, become taxable income to the unitholder if it sells such units at a price greater than its tax basis in those units, even if the price received is less than its original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized on any sale of  units, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation and depletion recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, a unitholder that sells units may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash received from the sale.. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.. Investment in our units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from U.S. federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and each non-U.S. person will be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and pay tax on its share of our taxable income. If you are a tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult a tax advisor before investing in our units.. We will treat each purchaser of  units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our units.. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of units and because of other reasons, we adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations, promulgated under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the \"Code\") referred to as \"Treasury Regulations.\" A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to a unitholder. Our tax counsel is unable to opine as to the validity of such filing positions. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from a sale of units and could have a negative impact on the value of our units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns.. We will prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for U.S. federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first business day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. We will prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for U.S. federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations, and, accordingly, our tax counsel is unable to opine as to the validity of this method. The U.S. Treasury Department issued regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which publicly traded partnerships may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders. Nonetheless, the regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we adopted. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. A unitholder whose units are loaned to a \"short seller\" to effect a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, he would no longer be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.. Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a \"short seller\" to effect a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, he may no longer be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gains, losses or deductions with respect to those. 42. units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to consult a tax advisor to discuss whether it is advisable to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from loaning their units.. We will adopt certain valuation methodologies in determining a unitholder's allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction. The IRS may challenge these methodologies or the resulting allocations, and such a challenge could adversely affect the value of our units.. In determining the items of income, gain, loss and deduction allocable to our unitholders, in certain circumstances, including when we issue additional units, we must determine the fair market value of our assets. Although we may from time to time consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, we make many fair market value estimates using a methodology based on the market value of our units as a means to measure the fair market value of our assets. The IRS may challenge these valuation methods and the resulting allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction.. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount, character and timing of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders' sale of units and could have a negative impact on the value of the units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions.. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our Partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. We will be considered to have technically terminated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same unit will be counted only once. Our technical termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders could receive two Schedules K-1 if relief was not available, as described below) for one fiscal year and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, but instead we would be treated as a new partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections, including a new election under Section 754 of the Code, and we could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. Moreover, a termination may either accelerate the application of, or subject us to, any tax legislation enacted before the termination that would not otherwise have been applied to us as a continuing as opposed to terminating partnership.  The IRS has announced a publicly traded partnership technical termination relief program whereby, if a publicly traded partnership that technically terminated requests publicly traded partnership technical termination relief and such relief is granted by the IRS, among other things, the partnership will only have to provide one Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the year notwithstanding two partnership tax years.. The elimination of any U.S. federal income tax preferences currently available with respect to coal exploration and development could negatively impact the value of our units.. The passage of any legislation or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate or defer certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to coal exploration and development could increase the taxable income allocable to our unitholders and negatively impact the value of an investment in our units.. As a result of investing in our units, unitholders may become subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire properties.. In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or control property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We conduct business in Pennsylvania and West Virginia, which currently impose a personal income tax on individuals. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may control assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax.. 43"
