[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. In addition to information discussed elsewhere in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors which could materially affect our business, liquidity, financial condition and/or results of operations.  The risks described below are not the only risks we face.  Additional factors not presently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and/or results of operations in future periods.. Operational Risks. International operations, worldwide and domestic economic trends and financial market conditions, geopolitical uncertainty, or changes to international trade agreements and tariffs, import and excise duties, other taxes, or other governmental rules and regulations. Our products are produced and sold in numerous countries, we have employees in various countries and we have production facilities currently in the U.S., Mexico, New Zealand, Italy and Canada.. 10. Table of Contents. Risks associated with international operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and/or results of operations, include:. • changes in local political, economic, social and labor conditions;. • potential disruption from socio-economic violence, including terrorism and drug-related violence;. • restrictions on foreign ownership and investments or on repatriation of cash earned in countries outside the U.S.;. • import and export requirements;. • currency exchange rate fluctuations;. • a less developed and less certain legal and regulatory environment in some countries, which, among other things, can create uncertainty regarding contract enforcement, intellectual property rights and liability issues; and. • inadequate levels of compliance with applicable anti-bribery laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.. Unfavorable global or regional economic conditions, including economic slowdown, inflation, and the disruption, volatility and tightening of credit and capital markets, as well as unemployment, tax increases, governmental spending cuts or a return of high levels of inflation, could affect consumer spending patterns and purchases of our products.  These could also create or exacerbate credit issues, cash flow issues and other financial hardships for us and our suppliers, distributors, retailers and consumers.  The inability of suppliers, distributors and retailers to access liquidity could impact our ability to produce and distribute our products.. We are also exposed to risks associated with interest rate fluctuations.  We could experience changes in our ability to manage fluctuations in interest rates and, accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in reducing those risks.. We could also be affected by nationalization of our international operations, unstable governments, unfamiliar or biased legal systems or intergovernmental disputes.  Any determination that our operations or activities did not comply with applicable U.S. or foreign laws or regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties, interruptions of business, terminations of necessary licenses and permits, and other legal and equitable sanctions.. The U.S. and other countries in which we operate impose import and excise duties, tariffs, and other taxes on beverage alcohol products in varying amounts.  The U.S. federal government or other governmental bodies may propose changes to international trade agreements, tariffs, taxes and other government rules and regulations.  Significant increases in import and excise duties or other taxes on beverage alcohol products could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and/or results of operations.. In addition, federal, state, provincial, local and foreign governmental agencies extensively regulate the beverage alcohol products industry concerning such matters as licensing, warehousing, trade and pricing practices, permitted and required labeling, advertising and relations with wholesalers and retailers.  Certain federal, state or local regulations also require warning labels and signage.  New or revised regulations or increased licensing fees, requirements or taxes could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition or results of operations.  Additionally, various jurisdictions may seek to adopt significant additional product labeling or warning requirements or limitations on the marketing or sale of our products because of what our products contain or allegations that our products cause adverse health effects.  If these types of requirements become applicable to one or more of our major products under current or future environmental or health laws or regulations, they may inhibit sales of such products.. These international, economic and political uncertainties and regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and/or results of operations, especially to the extent these matters, or the decisions, policies or economic strength of our suppliers and distributors, affect our business, liquidity, financial condition and/or results of operations.. 11. Table of Contents. Dependence on limited facilities for production of our Mexican beer brands, and expansion and construction issues. We are dependent on our Nava and Obregon breweries as our sole sources of supply to fulfill our Mexican beer brands product requirements, both now as well as for the near term.. We are currently expanding our Nava and Obregon breweries and constructing our Mexicali Brewery, and our joint venture with Owens-Illinois is expanding its glass plant.  While these multi-million-dollar expansion and construction activities are progressing consistent with our plans, there is always the potential risk of completion delays and cost overruns.. Expansion of current production facilities and construction of new production facilities are subject to various regulatory and developmental risks, including but not limited to: (i)  our ability to obtain timely certificate authorizations, necessary approvals and permits from regulatory agencies and on terms that are acceptable to us; (ii)  potential changes in federal, state and local statutes and regulations, including environmental requirements, that prevent a project from proceeding or increase the anticipated cost of the project; (iii)  inability to acquire rights-of-way or land or water rights on a timely basis on terms that are acceptable to us; and (iv)  inability to acquire the necessary energy supplies, including electricity, natural gas and diesel fuel.  Any of these events could delay the expansion or construction of our production facilities.. We may not be able to satisfy our product supply requirements for the Mexican beer brands in the event of a significant disruption, partial destruction or total destruction of the Nava or Obregon breweries or the glass plant.  Also, if the contemplated expansions of the Nava and Obregon breweries and glass plant and construction of the Mexicali Brewery are not completed by their targeted completion dates, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of our Mexican beer to satisfy our needs.  Under such circumstances, we may be unable to obtain our Mexican beer at a reasonable price from another source, if at all.  A significant disruption at our Nava or Obregon breweries, or the glass plant, even on a short-term basis, could impair our ability to produce and ship products to market on a timely basis.  Alternative facilities with sufficient capacity or capabilities may not readily be available, may cost substantially more or may take a significant time to start production, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and/or results of operations.. Operational disruptions or catastrophic loss to breweries, wineries, other production facilities or distribution systems. All of our Mexican beer brands product supply is currently produced at our breweries in Nava, Coahuila, Mexico and Obregon, Sonora, Mexico.  Many of the workers at these breweries are covered by collective bargaining agreements.  In addition, three of our largest wineries in the U.S. produce approximately 60% of our total annual wine and spirits product volume globally.  The glass plant currently produces approximately 40% of the total annual glass bottle supply for our Mexican beer brands.  Several of our vineyards and production and distribution facilities, including certain California wineries and breweries and our planned Mexicali Brewery, are in areas prone to seismic activity.  Additionally, we have various vineyards, wineries and breweries in the state of California which has recently experienced wildfires and landslides.. If any of these or other of our properties and production facilities were to experience a significant operational disruption or catastrophic loss, it could delay or disrupt production, shipments and revenue, and result in potentially significant expenses to repair or replace these properties.  Also, our production facilities are asset intensive.  As our operations are concentrated in a limited number of production and distribution facilities, we are more likely to experience a significant operational disruption or catastrophic loss in any one location from acts of war or terrorism, fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes, labor strike or other labor activities, cyber-attacks and other attempts to penetrate our information technology systems, unavailability of raw or packaging materials, or other natural or man-made events.  If a significant operational disruption or catastrophic loss were to occur, we could breach agreements, our reputation could be harmed, and our business, liquidity, financial condition and/or results of operations could be adversely affected due to higher maintenance charges, unexpected capital spending or product supply constraints.. 12. Table of Contents. Our insurance policies do not cover certain types of catastrophes.  Economic conditions and uncertainties in global markets may adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain property damage and business interruption insurance.  If our insurance coverage is adversely affected, or to the extent we have elected to self-insure, we may be at greater risk that we may experience an adverse impact to our business, liquidity, financial condition and/or results of operations.  If one or more significant uninsured or under-insured events occur, we could suffer a major financial loss.. Supply of quality water, agricultural and other raw materials, certain raw materials and packaging materials purchased under short-term supply contracts, limited group of suppliers of glass bottles. The quality and quantity of water available for use is important to the supply of our agricultural raw materials and our ability to operate our business.  Water is a limited resource in many parts of the world and if climate patterns change and droughts become more severe, there may be a scarcity of water or poor water quality which may affect our production costs or impose capacity constraints.  We are dependent on sufficient amounts of quality water for operation of our breweries, our wineries and our distilleries, as well as to irrigate our vineyards and conduct our other operations.  The suppliers of the agricultural raw materials we purchase are also dependent upon sufficient supplies of quality water for their vineyards and fields.  If water available to our operations or the operations of our suppliers becomes scarcer or the quality of that water deteriorates, we may incur increased production costs or face manufacturing constraints.  In addition, water purification and waste treatment infrastructure limitations could increase costs or constrain operation of our production facilities and vineyards.  A substantial reduction in water supplies could result in material losses of grape crops and vines or other crops, such as barley or hops, which could lead to a shortage of our product supply.. We have substantial wine operations as well as brewery operations in the state of California and substantial brewery operations in the country of Mexico.  Although certain areas in California recently experienced flooding, the state had endured an extended period of drought and instituted restrictions on water usage.  A recurrence of severe drought conditions in California could have an adverse effect upon those operations, which effect could become more significant depending upon actual future drought conditions.  Our Nava Brewery and glass plant receive water originating from a mountain aquifer.  Our Obregon Brewery receives its allocation of water originating from an aquifer and we expect our Mexicali Brewery will receive an allocation of water originating from an aquifer.  Although we anticipate our operations will have adequate sources of water to support their on-going requirements, there is no guarantee that the sources of water, methods of water delivery, or water requirements will not change materially in the future.. Our breweries, the glass plant, our wineries and our distilleries use a large volume of agricultural and other raw materials to produce their products.  These include corn starch and sugars, malt, hops, fruits, yeast and water for our breweries; soda ash and silica sand for the glass plant; grapes and water for our wineries; and grain and water for our distilleries.  Our breweries, wineries and distilleries all use large amounts of various packaging materials, including glass, aluminum, cardboard and other paper products.  Our production facilities also use electricity, natural gas and diesel fuel in their operations.  Certain raw materials and packaging materials are purchased under contracts of varying maturities.  The supply and price of raw materials, packaging materials and energy can be affected by many factors beyond our control, including market demand, global geopolitical events (especially as to their impact on crude oil prices), droughts and other weather conditions or natural or man-made events, economic factors affecting growth decisions, inflation, plant diseases and theft.. Our breweries, wineries and distilleries are also dependent upon an adequate supply of glass bottles.  Glass bottle costs are one of our largest components of cost of product sold.  We currently have a small number of suppliers of glass bottles for our Mexican beer brands.  In the U.S., glass bottles have only a small number of producers.  Currently, one producer supplies most of our glass container requirements for our U.S. wine and spirits operations and two producers supply our glass bottles for our craft beer.. To the extent any of the foregoing factors increases the costs of our finished products or lead to a shortage of our product supply, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and/or results of operations.. 13. Table of Contents. Reliance on wholesale distributors, major retailers and government agencies. Local market structures and distribution channels vary worldwide.  Within our primary market in the U.S., we offer a range of beverage alcohol products across the beer, wine and spirits categories, with separate distribution networks utilized for our beer portfolio and our wine and spirits portfolio.  In the U.S., we sell our products principally to wholesalers for resale to retail outlets and directly to government agencies, and we have entered into exclusive arrangements with certain wholesalers that generate a large portion of our U.S. wine and spirits net sales.  Wholesalers and retailers of our products offer products which compete directly with our products for retail shelf space, promotional support and consumer purchases, and wholesalers or retailers may give higher priority to products of our competitors.  The replacement or poor performance of our major wholesalers, retailers or government agencies could result in temporary or longer-term sales disruptions or could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and/or results of operations.. Reliance upon complex information systems and third party global networks, cyber-attacks, and design or implementation of our new global enterprise resource planning system (ERP). We depend on information technology to enable us to operate efficiently and interface with customers and suppliers, as well as maintain financial accuracy and efficiency and effect accurate and timely governmental reporting.  If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, or penalties associated with the failure to timely file governmental reports.  We recognize that many groups on a world-wide basis have experienced increases in security breaches, cyber-attacks, and other hacking activities such as denial of service, malware, and ransomware.  As with all large information technology systems, our systems could be penetrated by increasingly sophisticated outside parties' intent on extracting confidential or proprietary information, corrupting our information, disrupting our business processes, or engaging in the unauthorized use of strategic information about us or our employees, customers or consumers.  Such unauthorized access could disrupt our operations and could result in the loss of assets or revenues, litigation, remediation costs, damage to our reputation, or the failure by us to retain or attract customers following such an event.. We have outsourced various functions to third-party service providers and may outsource other functions in the future.  We rely on those third-party service providers to provide services on a timely and effective basis.  However, we do not ultimately control their performance.  Their failure to perform as expected or as required by contract could result in significant disruptions and costs to our operations.. We are in the process of a multi-year implementation of a new ERP system which we intend to replace our existing operating and financial systems.  We are designing the ERP system to accurately maintain our financial records, enhance operational functionality and provide timely information to our management team related to the operation of the business.  We expect the implementation process will require the investment of significant personnel and financial resources.  Companies which implement new ERP systems may experience delays, increased costs and other difficulties.  If we are not successful in designing and implementing our ERP system as planned or if it does not operate as intended, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting could be adversely affected, or our ability to assess those controls adequately could be delayed.. To the extent any of the foregoing factors result in significant disruptions and costs to our operations, or reduce the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, we could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and/or results of operations.. Contamination and degradation of product quality from diseases, pests and weather conditions. Our success depends upon the positive image that consumers have of our brands and of the safety and quality of our products.  Contamination, whether arising accidentally or through deliberate third-party action, or other events that harm the integrity or consumer support for our brands, could adversely affect their sales.  Various diseases, pests, fungi, viruses, drought, frosts and certain other weather conditions could affect the quality and quantity of barley, hops, grapes and other agricultural raw materials available, decreasing the supply and quality of our products.  We cannot guarantee that our grape suppliers or our suppliers of other agricultural raw materials will. 14. Table of Contents. succeed in preventing contamination in existing vineyards or fields or that we will succeed in preventing contamination in our existing vineyards or future vineyards we may acquire.  Future government restrictions regarding the use of certain materials used in growing grapes or other agricultural raw materials may increase vineyard costs and/or reduce production of grapes or other crops.  It is also possible that a supplier may not provide materials or product components which meet our required standards or may falsify documentation associated with the fulfillment of those requirements.. Product contamination or tampering or the failure to maintain our standards for product quality, safety and integrity, including with respect to raw materials, naturally occurring compounds, packaging materials or product components obtained from suppliers, may also reduce demand for our products or cause production and delivery disruptions.  Contaminants or other defects in raw materials, packaging materials or product components purchased from third parties and used in the production of our beer, wine or spirits products or defects in the fermentation or distillation process could lead to low beverage quality as well as illness among, or injury to, consumers of our products and may result in reduced sales of the affected brand or all our brands.. If any of our products become unsafe or unfit for consumption, are misbranded, or cause injury, we may have to engage in a product recall and/or be subject to liability and incur additional costs.  A widespread product recall, multiple product recalls, or a significant product liability judgment could cause our products to be unavailable for a period, which could further reduce consumer demand and brand equity.. Climate change and environmental regulatory compliance. Our business depends upon agricultural activity and natural resources.  There has been much public discussion related to concerns that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters.  Severe weather events, such as drought or flooding in California or a prolonged cold winter in New York, and climate change may negatively affect agricultural productivity in the regions from which we presently source our various agricultural raw materials.  Decreased availability of our raw materials may increase the cost of goods for our products.  Severe weather events or changes in the frequency or intensity of weather events can also disrupt our supply chain, which may affect production operations, insurance cost and coverage, as well as delivery of our products to wholesalers, retailers and consumers.  Natural disasters such as floods and earthquakes may also negatively impact the ability of consumers to purchase our products.. We may experience significant future increases in the costs associated with environmental regulatory compliance, including fees, licenses, and the cost of capital improvements for our operating facilities to meet environmental regulatory requirements.  In addition, we may be party to various environmental remediation obligations arising in the normal course of our business or relating to historical activities of businesses we acquire.  Due to regulatory complexities, uncertainties inherent in litigation and the risk of unidentified contaminants in our current and former properties, the potential exists for remediation, liability and indemnification costs to differ materially from the costs that we have estimated.  We may incur costs associated with environmental compliance arising from events we cannot control, such as unusually severe floods, hurricanes, earthquakes or fires.  We cannot assure you that our costs in relation to these matters will not exceed our projections or otherwise have a material adverse effect upon our business, liquidity, financial condition or results of operations.. Strategic Risks. Competition. We are in a highly competitive industry and our sales could be negatively affected by numerous factors including:. • our inability to maintain or increase prices;. • new entrants in our market or categories;. • the decision of wholesalers, retailers or consumers to purchase competitors' products instead of ours; or. • a general decline in beverage alcohol consumption due to consumer dietary preference changes or consumers substituting legalized marijuana or other similar products in lieu of beverage alcohol.. 15. Table of Contents. Sales could also be affected by pricing, purchasing, financing, operational, advertising or promotional decisions made by wholesalers, state and other local agencies, and retailers which could affect their supply of, or consumer demand for, our products.  We could also experience higher than expected selling, general and administrative expenses if we find it necessary to increase the number of our personnel or our advertising or marketing expenditures to maintain our competitive position or for other reasons.  We cannot guarantee that we will be able to increase our prices to pass along to our customers any increased costs we incur.. Potential decline in the consumption of products we sell; dependence on sales of our Mexican beer brands. Our business depends upon consumers' consumption of our beer, wine and spirits brands, and sales of our Mexican beer brands in the U.S. are a significant portion of our business.  Accordingly, a decline in the growth rate, amount or profitability of our sales of the Mexican beer brands in the U.S. could adversely affect our business.  Further, consumer preferences and tastes may shift due to, among other reasons, changing taste preferences, demographics or perceived value.  Consequently, any material shift in consumer preferences and taste in our major markets away from our premium beer, wine and spirits brands, and our Mexican beer brands in particular, from the categories in which they compete could have a negative impact on our business, liquidity, financial condition and/or results of operations.  Consumer preferences may shift due to a variety of factors, including changes in demographic or social trends, public health policies, and changes in leisure, dining and beverage consumption patterns.  A limited or general decline in consumption in one or more of our product categories could occur in the future due to a variety of factors, including:. • a general decline in economic or geopolitical conditions;. • concern about the health consequences of consuming beverage alcohol products and about drinking and driving;. • a general decline in the consumption of beverage alcohol products in on-premise establishments, such as may result from stricter laws relating to driving while under the influence of alcohol;. • the increased activity of anti-alcohol groups;. • increased federal, state, provincial and foreign excise or other taxes on beverage alcohol products and possible restrictions on beverage alcohol advertising and marketing;. • increased regulation placing restrictions on the purchase or consumption of beverage alcohol products or increasing prices due to the imposition of duties or excise tax or changes to international trade agreements or tariffs;. • inflation; and. • wars, pandemics, weather and natural or man-made disasters.. Acquisition, divestiture, investment, and new product development strategies. From time to time, we acquire businesses, assets or securities of companies that we believe will provide a strategic fit with our business.  We integrate acquired businesses with our existing operations; our overall internal control over financial reporting processes; and our financial, operations and information systems.  If the financial performance of our business, as supplemented by the assets and businesses acquired, does not meet our expectations, it may make it more difficult for us to service our debt obligations and our results of operations may fail to meet market expectations.  We may not effectively assimilate the business or product offerings of acquired companies into our business or within the anticipated costs or timeframes, retain key customers and suppliers or key employees of acquired businesses, or successfully implement our business plan for the combined business.  In addition, our final determinations and appraisals of the estimated fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in our acquisitions may vary materially from earlier estimates and we may fail to realize fully anticipated cost savings, growth opportunities or other potential synergies.  We cannot assure you that the fair value of acquired businesses or investments will remain constant.. We may also divest ourselves of businesses, assets or securities of companies that we believe no longer provide a strategic fit with our business.  We may provide various indemnifications in connection with the divestiture of businesses or assets.. 16. Table of Contents. We have also acquired or retained ownership interests in companies which we do not control, such as our joint venture to operate a glass plant adjacent to our Nava Brewery and investments recently made through our Constellation Ventures function.  Our joint venture partners or the other parties that hold the remaining ownership interests in companies which we do not control may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals or the goals of the joint ventures or those companies.  Our joint venture arrangements and the arrangements through which we acquired or hold our other equity or membership interests may require us, among other matters, to pay certain costs, to make capital investments, to fulfill alone our joint venture partners' obligations, or to purchase other parties' interests.. We have also recently invested in a Canadian company that manufactures and supplies medicinal cannabis.  While we will not develop, distribute, manufacture or sell cannabis products in the U.S., or anywhere else in the world, unless it is legally permissible to do so at all governmental levels in the particular jurisdiction, this investment could affect consumer perception of our existing brands and our reputation with various constituencies.. In addition, our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to develop new products.  The launch and ongoing success of new products are inherently uncertain, especially with respect to consumer appeal.  The launch of a new product can give rise to a variety of costs and an unsuccessful launch, among other things, can affect consumer perception of existing brands and our reputation.  Unsuccessful implementation or short-lived popularity of our product innovations may result in inventory write-offs and other costs.. We cannot assure you that we will realize the expected benefits of acquisitions, divestitures or investments.  We also cannot assure you that our acquisitions, investments or joint ventures will be profitable or that forecasts regarding acquisition, divestiture or investment activities will be accurate.  Our failure to adequately manage the risks associated with acquisitions or divestitures, or the failure of an entity in which we have an equity or membership interest, could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition or results of operations.. Dependence upon trademarks and proprietary rights, failure to protect our intellectual property rights. Our future success depends significantly on our ability to protect our current and future brands and products and to defend our intellectual property rights.  We have been granted numerous trademark registrations covering our brands and products and have filed, and expect to continue to file, trademark applications seeking to protect newly-developed brands and products.  We cannot be sure that trademark registrations will be issued with respect to any of our trademark applications.  We could also, by omission, fail to timely renew or protect a trademark and our competitors could challenge, invalidate or circumvent any existing or future trademarks issued to, or licensed by, us.. Financial Risks. Indebtedness. We have incurred indebtedness to finance acquisitions, fund beer operations expansion and construction activities and repurchase shares of our common stock.  In the future, we may continue to incur additional indebtedness to finance acquisitions, repurchase shares of our stock and fund other general corporate purposes, including beer operations expansion and construction activities.  We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet all our debt service requirements, pay dividends, repurchase shares of our common stock, and fund our general corporate and capital requirements.. Our current and future debt service obligations and covenants could have important consequences.  These consequences include, or may include, the following:. • our ability to obtain financing for future working capital needs or acquisitions or other purposes may be limited;. • our funds available for operations, expansions and construction, dividends or other distributions, or stock repurchases may be reduced because we dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness;. 17. Table of Contents. • our ability to conduct our business could be limited by restrictive covenants; and. • our vulnerability to adverse economic conditions may be greater than less leveraged competitors and, thus, our ability to withstand competitive pressures may be limited.. Additionally, any failure to meet required payments on our debt, or failure to comply with any covenants in the instruments governing our debt, could result in an event of default under the terms of those instruments and a downgrade to our credit ratings.  A downgrade in our credit ratings would increase our borrowing costs and could affect our ability to issue commercial paper.  Certain of our debt facilities also contain change of control provisions which, if triggered, may result in an acceleration of our obligation to repay the debt.. If we fail to comply with the obligations contained in our senior credit facility, our existing or future indentures, or other loan agreements, we could be in default under such debt facilities or agreements.  In the event of a default, the holders of our debt could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under such instrument to be due and payable.  A default could also require the immediate repayment of outstanding obligations under other debt facilities or agreements that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions.  If that were to occur, we might not have available funds to satisfy such repayment obligations.. Intangible assets, such as goodwill and trademarks. We have a significant amount of intangible assets such as goodwill and trademarks and may acquire more intangible assets in the future.  Intangible assets are subject to a periodic impairment evaluation under applicable accounting standards.  The write-down of any of these intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and/or results of operations.. Changes to tax laws, fluctuations in our effective tax rate, accounting for tax positions and the resolution of tax disputes, and changes to accounting standards, elections or assertions. The U.S. federal budget and individual state, provincial, local municipal budget deficits, or deficits in other governmental entities, could result in increased taxes on our products, business, customers or consumers.  Various proposals to increase taxes on beverage alcohol products have been made at the federal and state levels or at other governmental bodies in recent years.  Federal, state, provincial, local or foreign governmental entities may consider increasing taxes upon beverage alcohol products as they explore available alternatives for raising funds.. On December 22, 2017, the TCJ Act was signed into law in the United States.  The changes in the TCJ Act are broad and complex and we continue to examine the impact the TCJ Act may have on our business and financial results.  We recorded a provisional net income tax benefit in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 associated with the enactment of the TCJ Act.  This provisional benefit is subject to change, possibly materially, due to, among other things, changes in estimates, interpretations and assumptions we have made, and additional guidance and interpretations from the U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS or other standard-setting bodies, legislative actions, changes in accounting standards or related interpretations in response to the TCJ Act, and future actions by states within the United States that have not currently adopted the TCJ Act.. In addition, significant judgment is required to determine our effective tax rate and evaluate our tax positions.  Our provision for income taxes includes a provision for uncertain tax positions.  Fluctuations in federal, state, local and foreign taxes or a change to uncertain tax positions, including related interest and penalties, may impact our effective tax rate and our financial results.  When tax matters arise, several years may elapse before such matters are audited and finally resolved.  Unfavorable resolution of any tax matter could increase our effective tax rate and resolution of a tax issue may require the use of cash in the year of resolution.. Additional U.S. tax changes or in how international corporations are taxed, including changes in how existing tax laws are interpreted or enforced, or changes to accounting standards, elections or assertions could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and/or results of operations.. 18. Table of Contents. Other Risks. Damage to our reputation. The success of our brands depends upon the positive image that consumers have of those brands and maintaining a good reputation is critical to selling our branded products.  Contamination, whether arising accidentally or through deliberate third-party action, or other events that harm the integrity or consumer support for our brands, could adversely affect their sales and our reputation.  Our reputation could also be impacted negatively by public perception, adverse publicity (whether or not valid), negative comments in social media, or our responses relating to:. • a perceived failure to maintain high ethical, social and environmental standards for all our operations and activities;. • a perceived failure to address concerns relating to the quality, safety or integrity of our products;. • allegations that we, or persons associated with us or formerly associated with us, have violated applicable laws or regulations, including but not limited to those related to safety, employment, discrimination, harassment, whistle-blowing, privacy, or cyber-security;. • our environmental impact, including use of agricultural materials, packaging, water and energy use, and waste management; or. • efforts that are perceived as insufficient to promote the responsible use of alcohol or cannabis.. Failure to comply with federal, state, or local laws and regulations, maintain an effective system of internal controls, provide accurate and timely financial statement information, or protect our information systems against service interruptions, misappropriation of data or breaches of security, could also hurt our reputation.  Damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence in our products for any of these or other reasons could result in decreased demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and/or results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation, competitive position and brand equity.. Class action or other litigation relating to abuse of our products, the misuse of our products, product liability, or marketing or sales practices. There has been public attention directed at the beverage alcohol industry, which we believe is due to concern over problems related to harmful use of alcohol, including drinking and driving, underage drinking and health consequences from the misuse of alcohol.  We could be exposed to lawsuits relating to product liability or marketing or sales practices.  Adverse developments in lawsuits concerning these types of matters or a significant decline in the social acceptability of beverage alcohol products that may result from lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and/or results of operations.. Control by the Sands Family. Our Class B Common Stock is principally held by members of the Sands family, either directly or through entities controlled by members of the Sands family.  Holders of Class A Common Stock are entitled to one vote per share and holders of Class B Common Stock are entitled to 10 votes per share.  Holders of Class 1 Common Stock generally do not have voting rights.  The stock ownership of the Sands family and entities controlled by members of the Sands family represents a majority of the combined voting power of all classes of our common stock as of April 17, 2018, voting as a single class.  Consequently, the Sands family has the power to elect a majority of our directors and approve actions requiring the approval of the stockholders of the Company voting as a single class."
