[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our common stock.. Risks Relating to Our Business. We expect to continue to face significant competition in all parts of our business and the level of competition could intensify among our customer channels.  The telecommunications industry is highly competitive.  We face actual and potential competition from many existing and emerging companies, including other incumbent and competitive local telephone companies, long-distance carriers and resellers, wireless companies, Internet service providers, satellite companies and cable television companies, and, in some cases, from new forms of providers who are able to offer competitive services through software applications requiring a comparatively small initial investment. Due to consolidations and strategic alliances within the industry, we cannot predict the number of competitors we will face at any given time.. The wireless business has expanded significantly and has caused many subscribers with traditional telephone and land-based Internet access services to give up those services and rely exclusively on wireless service.  In addition, consumers' options for viewing television shows have expanded as content becomes increasingly available through alternative devices.  Some providers, including television and cable television content owners, have initiated over-the-top (\"OTT\") services that deliver video content to televisions and computers over the Internet.  OTT services can include episodes of highly-rated television series in their current broadcast seasons.  They also can include content that is related to broadcast or sports content that we carry, but that is distinct and may be available only through the alternative source. Consumers can pursue each of these options without foregoing any of the other options.  We may not be able to successfully anticipate and respond to many of the various competitive factors affecting the industry, including regulatory changes that may affect our competitors and us differently, new technologies, services and applications that may be introduced, changes in consumer preferences, demographic trends, and discount or bundled pricing strategies by competitors.. The incumbent telephone carrier in the markets we serve enjoys certain business advantages, including size, financial resources, favorable regulatory position, a more diverse product mix, brand recognition and connection to virtually all of our customers and potential customers.  The largest cable operators also enjoy certain business advantages, including size, financial resources, ownership of or superior access to desirable programming and other content, a more diverse product mix, brand recognition and first-in-field advantages with a customer base that generates positive cash flow for its operations.  Our competitors continue to add features, increase data speeds and adopt aggressive pricing and packaging for services comparable to the services we offer.  Their success in selling services that are competitive with ours among our various customer channels could lead to revenue erosion in other related areas.  We face intense competition in our markets for long-distance, Internet access, video service and other ancillary services that are important to our business and to our growth strategy.  If we do not compete effectively we could lose customers, revenue and market share; customers. 19. Table of Contents. may reduce their usage of our services or switch to a less profitable service; and we may need to lower our prices or increase our marketing efforts to remain competitive.. We must adapt to rapid technological change.  If we are unable to take advantage of technological developments, or if we adopt and implement them at a slower rate than our competitors, we may experience a decline in the demand for our services.  Our industry operates in a technologically complex environment.  New technologies are continually developed and products and services undergo constant improvement. Emerging technologies offer consumers a variety of choices for their communication and broadband needs.  To remain competitive, we will need to adapt to future changes in technology to enhance our existing offerings and to introduce new or improved offerings that anticipate and respond to the varied and continually changing demands of our various customer channels.  Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to match the benefits offered by competing technologies on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost, and if we fail to employ technologies desired by our customers before our competitors do so or if we do not successfully execute on our technology initiatives.. New technologies, particularly alternative methods for the distribution, access and viewing of content, have been, and will likely continue to be, developed that will further increase the number of competitors that we face and drive changes in consumer behavior.  Consumers seek more control over when, where and how they consume content and are increasingly interested in communication services outside of the home and in newer services in wireless Internet technology and devices such as tablets, smartphones and mobile wireless routers that connect to such devices.  These new technologies, distribution platforms and consumer behaviors may have a negative impact on our business.. In addition, evolving technologies can reduce the costs of entry for others, resulting in greater competition and significant new advantages to competitors.  Technological developments could require us to make significant new capital investment in order to remain competitive with other service providers.  If we do not replace or upgrade our network and its technology once it becomes obsolete, we will not be able to compete effectively and will likely lose customers.  We also may be placed at a cost disadvantage in offering our services. Technology changes are also allowing individuals to bypass telephone companies and cable operators entirely to make and receive calls, and to provide for the distribution and viewing of video programming without the need to subscribe to traditional voice and video products and services.  Increasingly, this can be done over wireless facilities and other emerging mobile technologies as well as traditional wired networks.  Wireless companies are aggressively developing networks using next-generation data technologies, which are capable of delivering high-speed Internet service via wireless technology to a large geographic footprint.  As these technologies continue to expand in availability and reliability, they could become an effective alternative to our high-speed Internet services.  Although we use fiber optics in parts of our networks, including in some residential areas, we continue to rely on coaxial cable and copper transport media to serve customers in many areas.  The facilities we use to offer our video services, including the interfaces with customers, are undergoing a rapid evolution, and depend in part on the products, expertise and capabilities of third parties.  If we cannot develop new services and products to keep pace with technological advances, or if such services and products are not widely embraced by our customers, our results of operations could be adversely impacted.. Shifts in our product mix may result in declines in operating profitability.  Margins vary among our products and services.  Our profitability may be impacted by technological changes, customer demands, regulatory changes, the competitive nature of our business and changes in the product mix of our sales.  These shifts may also result in our long-lived assets becoming impaired or our inventory becoming obsolete.  We review long-lived assets for potential impairment if certain events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may be present.  We currently manage potential inventory obsolescence through reserves, but future technology changes may cause inventory obsolescence to exceed current reserves.. We receive cash distributions from our wireless partnership interests and the amounts of such future distributions and our continued receipt of such future distributions are not guaranteed.  We own five wireless partnership interests consisting of 2.34% of GTE Mobilnet of South Texas Limited Partnership, which provides cellular service in the Houston, Galveston and Beaumont, Texas metropolitan areas; 3.60% of Pittsburgh SMSA Limited Partnership, which provides cellular service in and around the Pittsburgh metropolitan area; 20.51% of GTE Mobilnet of Texas RSA #17 Limited Partnership (\"RSA #17\"); 16.67% of Pennsylvania RSA 6(I) Limited Partnership (\"RSA 6(I)\") and 23.67% of Pennsylvania RSA 6(II) Limited Partnership (\"RSA 6(II)\").  RSA #17 provides cellular service to a limited rural area in Texas.  RSA 6(I) and RSA 6(II) provide cellular service in and around our Pennsylvania service territory.. 20. Table of Contents. In 2017, 2016 and 2015, we received cash distributions from these partnerships of $30.0 million, $32.1 million and $45.3 million, respectively.  The cash distributions we receive from these partnerships are based on our percentage of ownership and the partnerships' operating results, cash availability and financing needs, as determined by the General Partner at the date of the distribution.  We cannot control the timing, dollar amount or certainty of any future cash distributions from these partnerships.  If cash distributions from these partnerships decrease or end in the future, our results of operations could be adversely affected, and as a result, we may be unable to fulfill our long-term obligations or our ability to pay cash dividends to our shareholders may be restricted.. A disruption in our networks and infrastructure could cause delays or interruptions of service, which could cause us to lose customers and incur additional expenses.   Our customers depend on reliable service over our network.  The primary risks to our network infrastructure include physical damage to lines, security breaches, capacity limitations, power surges or outages, software defects and disruptions beyond our control, such as natural disasters and acts of terrorism.  From time to time in the ordinary course of business, we will experience short disruptions in our service due to factors such as physical damage, inclement weather and service failures of our third party service providers.  We could experience more significant disruptions in the future.  Disruptions may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers, either of which could cause us to lose customers and incur unexpected expenses.. A cyber-attack that bypasses our IT and/or network security systems causing an IT and/or network security breach may lead to unauthorized use or disabling of our network, theft of customer data, unauthorized use or publication of our intellectual property and/or confidential business information and could harm our competitive position or otherwise adversely affect our business.    Attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to organizations' IT systems or network elements are becoming more sophisticated and are sometimes successful. These attempts may include covertly introducing malware to companies' computers and networks, impersonating authorized users or \"hacking\" into systems.  We seek to prevent such security incidents and to detect and investigate all security incidents that do occur and to prevent their recurrence, but in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effect.  Significant IT or network security failures could result in the theft, loss, damage, unauthorized use or publication of our intellectual property and/or confidential business information, which could harm our competitive position, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, expose us to litigation, reduce the value of our investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives or otherwise adversely affect our business. To the extent that any security breach results in inappropriate disclosure of our customers' or licensees' confidential information, we may incur liability as a result.. Our operations require substantial capital expenditures and our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be impacted if funds for capital expenditures are not available when needed.    We require significant capital expenditures to maintain, upgrade and enhance our network facilities and operations.  While we have historically been able to fund capital expenditures from cash generated from operations and borrowings under our revolving credit facility, the other risk factors described in this section could materially reduce cash available from operations or significantly increase our capital expenditure requirements, and these outcomes may result in our inability to fund the necessary level of capital expenditures to maintain, upgrade or enhance our network.  This could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. If we cannot obtain and maintain necessary rights-of-way for our network, our operations may be interrupted and we would likely face increased costs.  We are dependent on easements, franchises and licenses from various private parties, such as established telephone companies and other utilities, railroads and long-distance companies and from state highway authorities, local governments and transit authorities for access to aerial pole space, underground conduits and other rights-of-way in order to construct and operate our networks.  Some agreements relating to rights-of-way may be short-term or revocable at will, and we cannot be certain that we will continue to have access to existing rights-of-way after the governing agreements are terminated or expire.  If any of our right-of-way agreements were terminated or could not be renewed, we may be forced to remove our network facilities from the affected areas, relocate or abandon our networks, which would interrupt our operations, force us to find alternative rights-of-way and incur unexpected capital expenditures.. We may be unable to obtain necessary hardware, software and operational support from third party vendors.  We depend on third party vendors to supply us with a significant amount of hardware, software and operational support necessary to provide certain of our services and to maintain, upgrade and enhance our network facilities and operations and to support our information and billing systems.  Some of our third-party vendors are our primary source of supply for products and services for which there are few substitutes.  If any of these vendors should experience financial difficulties, have demand that exceeds their capacity or they cannot otherwise meet our specifications, our ability to provide some services may be materially adversely affected in which case our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. 21. Table of Contents. Video content costs are substantial and continue to increase.  We expect video content costs to continue to be one of our largest operating costs associated with providing video service. Video programming content includes cable-oriented programming designed to be shown in linear channels, as well as the programming of local over-the-air television stations that we retransmit.  In addition, on-demand programming is being made available in response to customer demand.  In recent years, the cable industry has experienced rapid increases in the cost of programming, especially the cost of sports programming and local broadcast station retransmission content.  Programming costs are generally assessed on a per-subscriber basis, and therefore, are directly related to the number of subscribers to which the programming is provided.  Our relatively small base of subscribers limits our ability to negotiate lower per-subscriber programming costs.  Larger providers can often qualify for discounts based on the number of their subscribers.  This cost difference can cause us to experience reduced operating margins, while our competitors with a larger subscriber base may not experience similar margin compression.  In addition, escalators in existing content agreements cause cost increases that exceed general inflation.  While we expect these increases to continue, we may not be able to pass our programming cost increases on to our customers, particularly as an increasing amount of programming content becomes available via the Internet at little or no cost.  Also, some competitors or their affiliates own programming in their own right and we may not be able to secure license rights to that programming.  As our programming contracts with content providers expire, there is no assurance that they will be renewed on acceptable terms or that they will be renewed at all, in which case we may not be able to provide such programming as part of our video services packages and our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.. We have employees who are covered by collective bargaining agreements.  If we are unable to enter into new agreements or renew existing agreements before they expire, we could have a work stoppage or other labor actions that could materially disrupt our ability to provide services to our customers.  As of December 31, 2017, approximately 48% of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements as compared to 20% as of December 31, 2016 as a result of the acquisition of FairPoint.  These employees are hourly workers throughout our service territories and are represented by various unions and locals.  All of the existing collective bargaining agreements expire between 2018 through 2020, of which contracts covering 38% of our employees will expire in 2018.. We cannot predict the outcome of negotiations of the collective bargaining agreements covering our employees.  If we are unable to reach new agreements or renew existing agreements, employees subject to collective bargaining agreements may engage in strikes, work stoppages or slowdowns, or other labor actions, which could materially disrupt our ability to provide services.  New labor agreements, or the renewal of existing agreements, may impose significant new costs on us, which could adversely affect our financial condition and result of operations.  While we believe our relations with the unions representing these employees are good, any protracted labor disputes or labor disruptions by any of our employees could have a significant negative effect on our financial results and operations.. Our ability to retain certain key management personnel and attract and retain highly qualified management and other personnel in the future could have an adverse effect on our business.  We rely on the talents and efforts of key management personnel, many of whom have been with our company and in our industry for decades.  While we maintain long-term and emergency transition plans for key management personnel and believe we could either identify internal candidates or attract outside candidates to fill any vacancy created by the loss of any key management personnel, the loss of one or more of our key management personnel and the ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical and management personnel in the future could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Acquisitions present many risks and we may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits of recent acquisitions.  From time to time, we make acquisitions and investments or enter into other strategic transactions.  In connection with these types of transactions, we may incur unanticipated expenses; fail to realize anticipated benefits; have difficulty incorporating the acquired businesses; disrupt relationships with current and new employees, customers and vendors; incur significant indebtedness or have to delay or not proceed with announced transactions.  The occurrence of any of the foregoing events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We may face significant challenges in combining the operations of an acquired business, such as FairPoint, into our operations in a timely and efficient manner.  The failure to successfully integrate an acquired business and to manage successfully the challenges presented by the integration process may result in our not achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, including operational and financial synergies.  Even if we are successful in integrating acquired businesses,. 22. Table of Contents. we cannot be assured that the integration will result in the realization of the full benefit of anticipated financial synergies or that these benefits will be realized within the expected time frames.. Risks Relating to Current Economic Conditions. Unfavorable changes in financial markets could adversely affect pension plan investments resulting in material funding requirements to meet our pension obligations.  We expect that we will continue to make future cash contributions to our pension plans, the amount and timing of which will depend on various factors including funding regulations, future investment performance, changes in future discount rates and mortality tables and changes in participant demographics.  Unfavorable fluctuations or adverse changes in any of these factors, most of which are outside our control, could impact the funded status of the plans and increase future funding requirements.  Returns generated on plan assets have historically funded a large portion of the benefits paid under these plans.  If the financial markets experience a downturn and returns fall below the estimated long-term rate of return, our future funding requirements could increase significantly, which could adversely affect our cash flows from operations.. Weak economic conditions may have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  Downturns in the economic conditions in the markets and industries we serve could adversely affect demand for our products and services and have a negative impact on our results of operations.  Economic weakness or uncertainty may make it difficult for us to obtain new customers and may cause our existing customers to reduce or discontinue their services to which they subscribe.  This risk may be worsened by the expanded availability of free or lower cost services, such as video over the Internet or substitute services, such as wireless phones and data devices.  Weak economic conditions may also impact the ability of third parties to satisfy their obligations to us.. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock and Payment of Dividends. Our Board of Directors could, at its discretion, depart from or change our dividend policy at any time.  Our Board of Directors maintains a current dividend practice for the payment of quarterly dividends at an annual rate of approximately $1.55 per share of common stock.  We are not required to pay dividends and our stockholders do not have contractual or other legal rights to receive them.  Our Board of Directors may decide at any time, in its discretion, to decrease the amount of dividends, change or revoke the dividend policy or discontinue paying dividends entirely.  Our ability to pay dividends is dependent on our earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, expected cash needs, debt covenant compliance and other factors considered relevant by our Board of Directors.  If we do not pay dividends, for any reason, shares of our common stock could become less liquid and the market price of our common stock could decline.. We might not have sufficient cash to maintain current dividend levels.  Our debt agreements, applicable state, legal and corporate law, regulatory requirements and other risk factors described in this section, could materially reduce the cash available from operations or significantly increase our capital expenditure requirements, and these outcomes could cause funds not to be available when needed in an amount sufficient to support our current dividend practice.. If we continue to pay dividends at the level currently anticipated under our dividend policy, our ability to pursue growth opportunities may be limited.  Our dividend practice could limit, but not preclude, our ability to grow.  If we continue paying dividends at the level currently anticipated, we may not retain a sufficient amount of cash to fund a material expansion of our business, including any acquisitions or growth opportunities requiring significant and unexpected capital expenditures.  For that reason, our ability to pursue any material expansion of our business may depend on our ability to obtain third-party financing.  We cannot guarantee that such financing will be available to us on reasonable terms or at all.. The price of our common stock may be volatile and may fluctuate substantially, which could negatively affect holders of our common stock.  The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely as a result of various factors including, but not limited to, period-to-period fluctuations in our operating results, the volume of sales of our common stock, the limited number of holders of our common stock and the resulting limited liquidity in our common stock, dilution, developments in the communications industry, the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, short interests in our common stock, competitive factors, regulatory developments, labor disruptions, economic and other external factors, general market conditions and market conditions affecting the stock of communications companies in general. Communications companies have, in the past, experienced extreme volatility in the trading prices and volumes of their securities, which has often been unrelated to operating performance. High levels of market volatility may have a significant adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, in the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods. 23. Table of Contents. of volatility in their stock prices. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and/or the market price of our common stock.. Our organizational documents could limit or delay another party's ability to acquire us and, therefore, could deprive our investors of a possible takeover premium for their shares.  A number of provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws will make it difficult for another company to acquire us.  Among other things, these provisions:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tDivide our Board of Directors into three classes, which results in roughly one-third of our directors being elected each year;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tProvide that directors may only be removed for cause and then only upon the affirmative vote of holders of two-thirds or more of the voting power of our outstanding common stock;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tRequire the affirmative vote of holders of two-thirds or more of the voting power of our outstanding common stock to amend, alter, change or repeal specified provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tRequire stockholders to provide us with advance notice if they wish to nominate any candidates for election to our Board of Directors or if they intend to propose any matters for consideration at an annual stockholders meeting; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tAuthorize the issuance of so-called \"blank check\" preferred stock without stockholder approval upon such terms as the Board of Directors may determine.. We also are subject to laws that may have a similar effect.  For example, federal and certain state telecommunications laws and regulations generally prohibit a direct or indirect transfer of control over our business without prior regulatory approval.  Similarly, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law restricts our ability to engage in a business combination with an \"interested stockholder\".  These laws and regulations make it difficult for another company to acquire us, and therefore, could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock.  In addition, the rights of our common stockholders will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of holders of any class or series of preferred stock that we may issue in the future.. Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness and Our Capital Structure. We have a substantial amount of debt outstanding and may incur additional indebtedness in the future, which could restrict our ability to pay dividends and fund working capital and planned capital expenditures.  As of December 31, 2017, we had $2.3 billion of debt outstanding.  Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely impact our business, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tWe may be required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make principal and interest payments on our debt, which will reduce funds available for operations, future business opportunities, strategic initiatives and dividends;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tWe may have limited flexibility to react to changes in our business and our industry;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tIt may be more difficult for us to satisfy our other obligations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tWe may have a limited ability to borrow additional funds or to sell assets to raise funds if needed for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tWe may become more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including changes in interest rates; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tWe may be at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt.. 24. Table of Contents. We cannot guarantee that we will generate sufficient revenues to service our debt and have adequate funds left over to achieve or sustain profitability in our operations, meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs, compete successfully in our markets, or pay dividends to our stockholders.. Our credit agreement and the indentures governing our Senior Notes contain covenants that limit management's discretion in operating our business and could prevent us from capitalizing on opportunities and taking other corporate actions.  Among other things, our credit agreement limits or restricts our ability (and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries), and the separate indentures governing the Senior Notes limit the ability of our subsidiary, Consolidated Communications, Inc., and its restricted subsidiaries to: incur additional debt and issue preferred stock; make restricted payments, including paying dividends on, redeeming, repurchasing or retiring our capital stock; make investments and prepay or redeem debt; enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends, make loans or transfer assets to us; create liens; sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of, or other ownership interests in subsidiaries; engage in transactions with affiliates; engage in sale and leaseback transactions; engage in a business other than telecommunications; and consolidate or merge.. In addition, our credit agreement requires us to comply with specified financial ratios, including ratios regarding total leverage and interest coverage.  Our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control.  These restrictions limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet capital needs or otherwise constrain our activities or business plans.  They also may adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, enter into acquisitions or engage in other business activities that would be in our interest.. A breach of any of the covenants contained in our credit agreement, in any future credit agreement, or in the separate indentures governing the Senior Notes, or our inability to comply with the financial ratios could result in an event of default, which would allow the lenders to declare all borrowings outstanding to be due and payable.  If the amounts outstanding under our credit facilities were to be accelerated, we cannot assure that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full the money owed.  In such a situation, the lenders could foreclose on the assets and capital stock pledged to them.. We may not be able to refinance our existing debt if necessary, or we may only be able to do so at a higher interest expense.  We may be unable to refinance or renew our credit facilities and our failure to repay all amounts due on the maturity dates would cause a default under the credit agreement.  Alternatively, any renewal or refinancing may occur on less favorable terms.  If we refinance our credit facilities on terms that are less favorable to us than the terms of our existing debt, our interest expense may increase significantly, which could impact our results of operations and impair our ability to use our funds for other purposes, such as to pay dividends.. Our variable-rate debt subjects us to interest rate risk, which could impact our cost of borrowing and operating results.  Certain of our debt obligations are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk.  Increases in interest rates could negatively impact our results of operations and operating cash flows.  We utilize interest rate swap agreements to convert a portion of our variable-rate debt to a fixed-rate basis.  However, we do not maintain interest rate hedging agreements for all of our variable-rate debt and our existing hedging agreements may not fully mitigate our interest rate risk, may prove disadvantageous or may create additional risks.  Changes in fair value of cash flow hedges that have been de-designated or determined to be ineffective are recognized in earnings.  Significant increases or decreases in the fair value of these cash flow hedges could cause favorable or adverse fluctuations in our results of operations.. Risks Related to the Regulation of Our Business. We are subject to a complex and uncertain regulatory environment, and we face compliance costs and restrictions greater than those of many of our competitors.  Our businesses are subject to regulation by the Federal Communications Commission (\"FCC\") and other federal, state and local entities.  Rapid changes in technology and market conditions have resulted in changes in how the government addresses telecommunications, video programming and Internet services.  Many businesses that compete with our Incumbent Local Exchange Carrier (\"ILEC\") and non-ILEC subsidiaries are comparatively less regulated.  Some of our competitors are either not subject to utilities regulation or are subject to significantly fewer regulations.  In contrast to our subsidiaries regulated as cable operators and satellite video providers, competing on-demand and OTT providers and motion picture and DVD firms have almost no regulation of their video activities.  Recently, federal and state authorities have become more active in seeking to address critical issues in each of our product and service markets.  The adoption of new laws or regulations, or changes to the existing regulatory framework at the federal or state level, could require significant and costly adjustments that would adversely affect our business plans.. 25. Table of Contents. New regulations could impose additional costs or capital requirements, require new reporting, impair revenue opportunities, potentially impede our ability to provide services in a manner that would be attractive to our customers and potentially create barriers to enter new markets or to acquire new lines of business. We face continued regulatory uncertainty in the immediate future.  Not only are these governmental entities continuing to move forward on these matters, their actions remain subject to reconsideration, appeal and legislative modification over an extended period of time, and it is unclear how their actions will ultimately impact our markets.  We cannot predict future developments or changes to the regulatory environment or the impact such developments or changes may have on us.. We receive support from various funds established under federal and state laws, and the continued receipt of that support is not assured.  A significant portion of our revenues come from network access and subsidies.  An order adopted by the FCC in 2011 (the \"Order\") significantly impacts the amount of support revenue we receive from the Universal Service Fund (\"USF\"), Connect America Fund (\"CAF\") and intercarrier compensation (\"ICC\").  The Order reformed core parts of the USF, broadly recast the existing ICC scheme, established the CAF to replace support revenues provided by the current USF and redirected support from voice services to broadband services.  In 2012, CAF funding was implemented, which froze USF support to price cap carriers until the FCC implemented a broadband cost model to shift support from voice services to broadband services.  See Part I  -  Item 1  -  \"Regulatory Environment\" above for statistics of current CAF funding levels.. We receive subsidy payments from various federal and state universal service support programs, including high-cost support, Lifeline and E-Rate programs for schools and libraries.  The total cost of the various federal universal service programs has increased significantly in recent years, putting pressure on regulators to reform the programs and to limit both eligibility and support.  We cannot predict when or how such matters will be decided or the effect on the subsidy payments we receive.  However, future reductions in the subsidy payments we receive may directly affect our profitability and cash flows.. Increased regulation of the Internet could increase our cost of doing business.  Current laws and regulations governing access to, or commerce on, the Internet are limited.  As the Internet continues to become more significant, federal, state and local governments may adopt new rules and regulations applicable to, or apply existing laws and regulations to, the Internet.  During 2017, the FCC adopted an order eliminating its previous classification of Internet service as a telecommunications service regulated under Title II of the Telecommunications Act of 1996.  This effectively limits the FCC's authority over Internet Service Providers.  The FCC retained rules requiring Internet Service Providers to disclose practices associated with blocking, throttling and paid prioritization of Internet traffic.  The FCC order has been challenged in court and the outcome of the challenge cannot be determined at this time.. The outcome of pending matters before the FCC and the FTC and any potential congressional action cannot be determined at this time but could lead to increased costs for the Company in connection with our provision of Internet services, and could affect our ability to compete in the markets we serve.. We are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, natural resources and worker health and safety.  Our operations and properties are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, natural resources and worker health and safety, including laws and regulations governing and creating liability in connection with the management, storage and disposal of hazardous materials, asbestos and petroleum products.  We are also subject to laws and regulations governing air emissions from our fleet vehicles.  As a result, we face several risks, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tHazardous materials may have been released at properties that we currently own or formerly owned (perhaps through our predecessors).  Under certain environmental laws, we could be held liable, without regard to fault, for the costs of investigating and remediating any actual or threatened contamination at these properties and for contamination associated with disposal by us, or by our predecessors, of hazardous materials at third-party disposal sites;. 26. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tWe could incur substantial costs in the future if we acquire businesses or properties subject to environmental requirements or affected by environmental contamination.  In particular, environmental laws regulating wetlands, endangered species and other land use and natural resources may increase the costs associated with future business or expansion or delay, alter or interfere with such plans;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe presence of contamination can adversely affect the value of our properties and make it difficult to sell any affected property or to use it as collateral; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tWe could be held responsible for third-party property damage claims, personal injury claims or natural resource damage claims relating to contamination found at any of our current or past properties.. The cost of complying with environmental requirements could be significant.  Similarly, the adoption of new environmental laws or regulations, or changes in existing laws or regulations or their interpretations, could result in significant compliance costs or unanticipated environmental liabilities.. Our business may be impacted by new or changing tax laws or regulations and actions by federal, state, and/or local agencies, or by how judicial authorities apply tax laws.  Our operations are subject to various federal, state and local tax laws and regulations.   In connection with the products and services we sell, we calculate, collect, and remit various federal, state, and local taxes, surcharges and regulatory fees (\"tax\" or \"taxes\") to numerous federal, state and local governmental authorities.  In many cases, the application of tax laws are uncertain and subject to differing interpretations, especially when evaluated against new technologies and telecommunications services, such as broadband Internet access and cloud related services.  Tax laws are dynamic and subject to change as new laws are passed and new interpretations of the law are issued or applied.  Changes in tax laws, or changes in interpretations of existing laws, could materially affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. For example, the U.S. recently enacted a major federal tax reform that had a significant impact on our tax obligations and effective income tax rate in 2017."                                                                                                                                                                     
