[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks and uncertainties.  We have described below significant factors that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations as well as our industry.  You should carefully consider these factors, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other documents that we file with the SEC, before making any investment decision about our securities.  Adverse developments or changes, including those related to any of the factors discussed below, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry. Demand for our products is closely related to construction activity, particularly new residential construction, which is cyclical.. Historically, demand for the products that we manufacture has been closely correlated with new residential construction in the United States and Canada and, to a lesser extent, commercial construction and R&R activity, which are cyclical in nature.  Accordingly, our business is also cyclical and subject to changes in general economic conditions, and we may incur losses during cyclical downturns.  For example, from 2008 to 2014, new residential construction activities were at their lowest levels since 1949 and, correspondingly, demand for the products that we manufacture was weak, and prices fell significantly across the industry.  Although conditions have improved in recent years, there is uncertainty regarding the extent and sustainability of the current expansion in such construction activity and resulting product demand levels.  Demand for new residential construction is influenced by mortgage availability and interest rates, employment levels, household formation rates, domestic population growth, immigration rates, residential vacancy and foreclosure rates, demand for second homes, existing home prices, rental prices, housing inventory levels, consumer confidence, seasonal weather factors and other general economic factors.  Our growth prospects depend, to a significant extent, on the degree to which conditions in the residential construction market continue to improve in the future.  We cannot control the foregoing and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations may vary materially in response to market conditions and changes in the supply and demand balance for our primary products.. If we cannot effectively compete in our markets, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. Many of the wallboard products sold by our competitors are close substitutes for our products.  Because of this substitutability, competition among manufacturers is based in large part on price, as well as service, quality and range of products.  Actions of our competitors, or the entry of new competitors into our markets, could lead to lower pricing in an effort to maintain our customer base and could also lead to lower sales volumes.  At times, the price for any one or more of the products that we produce may fall below our production costs, requiring us to either incur losses on product sales or cease production at one or more of our manufacturing facilities.  There can be no assurance that prices for products sold by us will not decline in the future or that such declines will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Some of our competitors are larger companies and, therefore, have access to greater financial and other resources than we do.  These resources may afford those competitors greater purchasing power, increased financial flexibility and more capital resources for expansion and improvement, which may enable those competitors to compete more effectively than we can.  If we fail to compete effectively, we could suffer a loss of sales.. If our coal-fired power plant synthetic gypsum suppliers switch to natural gas or cease operations, our supply of synthetic gypsum could be constrained and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. Almost all of the gypsum used in our plants is synthetic gypsum.  Most synthetic gypsum is a coal-combustion residual, resulting from flue gas desulfurization, carried out by electric generation or industrial plants burning coal as a fuel, although other industrial activities can also produce synthetic gypsum.  The suppliers of synthetic gypsum are primarily power companies.  As a result of the increase in coal price relative to natural gas and other reasons, some power companies have ceased operations or reduced power generation at certain high cost coal fired plants or at plants that are not compliant with current or anticipated environmental laws or switched such plants to using natural gas instead of coal for their electric generation needs.  On September 28, 2017, Seminole Electric Cooperative, Inc. announced plans to remove one of its two coal fired electrical generating units located at the plant that currently supplies our Palatka, Florida plant with synthetic gypsum, and to build a natural gas fired unit at its plant, effective approximately five years from the date of the announcement.  Additionally, existing or future changes in environmental regulations could make it more difficult or costly for power providers or industrial plants to burn coal.  In the event any of the power companies with which we have synthetic gypsum supply agreements, for these or other reasons, reduce their power generation, switch to using natural gas instead of coal or cease operations completely,. 8. Table of Contents. our access to synthetic gypsum may be constrained or the cost to obtain gypsum could increase.  We could incur substantial costs in connection with any significant reduction in the availability of synthetic gypsum, including costs to install equipment capable of processing natural gypsum and costs to substitute natural gypsum for synthetic gypsum, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  In that event, there can be no assurance that we could find alternative sources of synthetic gypsum in reasonable quantities or at reasonable prices.. Certain of our customers have significant buying power, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Some of our customers are large companies with significant buying power.  In addition, consolidation currently taking place in our distribution channel could enhance the ability of these customers to seek more favorable terms, including pricing, for the products they purchase from us.  Accordingly, our ability to maintain or raise prices in the future may be limited, including during periods of raw material and other cost increases.  If we are forced to reduce prices or to maintain prices during periods of increased costs, or if we lose customers because of pricing or other methods of competition, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. We do not have long-term contracts with our customers, and our sales volume could be reduced if our customers switch some or all of their business with us to other suppliers.. As is customary in the industry, we do not enter into long-term contracts with our customers.  Our customers may choose to stop or reduce purchases of our products at any time in the future.  A significant loss of our customers or a significant reduction in their purchases could have a material negative impact on our sales volume and business, or cause us to reduce our prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The loss of sales to Lowe's or Foundation Building Materials may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, Lowe's accounted for 14%, 15% and 16% of our net sales, respectively.  Foundation Building Materials accounted for 11% of our net sales in 2017.  If either of these top two customers reduces, delays or cancels a substantial number of orders, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected, particularly for the period in which the reduction, delay or cancellation occurs and also possibly for subsequent periods.. Because we do not have binding long-term purchasing agreements with Lowe's or Foundation Building Materials, there can be no assurance that they will continue to purchase products from us at current levels or at all.. A material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities or at one of our suppliers' facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and/or negatively affect our financial results.. Any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including but not limited to:. • major equipment failure;. • fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes, environmental incidents or other catastrophes;. • utility and transportation infrastructure disruptions;. • labor difficulties;. • other operational problems; or. • war, acts of terrorism or other unexpected events, including cyber security attacks.. Any downtime or facility damage could prevent us from meeting customer demand for our products or require us to make unplanned capital expenditures.  If our machines or facilities were to incur significant downtime, our ability to satisfy customer requirements could be impaired, resulting in decreased customer satisfaction and lower sales and net income.  Because we operate at a limited number of facilities, the effects of any particular shutdown or facility damage could be significant to our operations as a whole and pronounced in the markets near the facility affected.. In addition, our suppliers of synthetic gypsum and paperboard liner are subject to the manufacturing facility disruption risks noted above.  Our suppliers' inability to produce the necessary raw materials for our manufacturing processes may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Because we rely on a limited number of suppliers, a. 9. Table of Contents. disruption at any one of our suppliers' facilities could also have a significant impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are reliant on WestRock for paper and we may require additional supplies of paper if our current supply is disrupted or our utilization increases.. We currently purchase most of our paperboard liner from the Seven Hills joint venture with WestRock, and purchase the balance on the open market.  While the joint venture has the capacity to supply us with approximately 80% of our paper needs at our full capacity and most of our needs at current capacity, supply disruptions or additional paper demand that cannot be fulfilled on the open market could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Since we only have one major supplier of paper, our risk of supply disruption may be greater than that of some of our competitors.  Paper is a significant component of our variable costs.  To the extent we are required to purchase additional paper on the open market, such paper costs would be subject to market conditions and could increase, which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If the cost of energy or other raw materials increases, our cost of goods sold will increase and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. Our manufacturing processes use substantial amounts of natural gas and electricity, which are major components of our cost of goods sold.  Energy costs are affected by various market factors, including the availability of supplies of particular forms of energy, energy prices and local and national regulatory decisions.  Prices for natural gas and electrical power have been volatile in recent years.  There may be substantial increases in the price of energy in the future, which may be pronounced if there are dislocations in the energy markets due to political instability or other unforeseeable events.  Our policy, which is designed to decrease volatility, is to hedge no more than 50% of our historical gas usage and to maintain hedges for no more than one year.  We have entered into a contract to purchase most of our electricity requirements at our Buchanan, New York plant at fixed rates.  We purchase our other electricity requirements at market rates and we currently do not hedge our electricity purchases.  Consequently, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted by increases in price more than competitors utilizing a more comprehensive hedging strategy, particularly in respect of electricity purchases.  There can be no assurances we will continue to utilize this hedging strategy in the future or whether it or any other strategy we implement, including not hedging at all, will be successful.. We also use substantial quantities of other raw materials including gypsum, paperboard liner, starch and other manufacturing additives.  The cost of certain of these raw materials has been volatile, and because we do not hedge any of these costs, significant increases in the cost or changes in the availability of one or more of these raw materials could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Significant changes in the cost and availability of transportation could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Because manufacturers are responsible for delivering wallboard to their customers in our industry, transportation costs associated with the delivery of our wallboard products are a significant portion of our variable costs.  Increases in the cost of fuel or energy can result in increases in the cost of transportation, which could materially and adversely affect our operating profits.  Also, reductions in the availability of certain modes of transportation, such as rail or trucking, could limit our ability to deliver our products and therefore materially and adversely affect our operating profits.. We and our suppliers are subject to environmental and safety laws and regulations and these laws and regulations may change.  These laws and regulations could cause us or our suppliers to make modifications to how we or they manufacture and price our or their products.  These laws could also require that we or our suppliers make significant capital investments or otherwise increase our or their costs or result in liabilities to us.. We and our suppliers are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment and occupational health and safety, including those governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, the management, disposal and cleanup of hazardous materials and wastes and the health and safety of our employees.  We are also required to obtain permits from governmental authorities for certain operations, and if we expand or modify our facilities, or if environmental laws change, we could be required to obtain new or modified permits.  If we were to fail to comply with these laws, regulations or permits, we could incur fines, penalties or other sanctions.  In addition, we could be held responsible for costs and damages arising from claims or liabilities under these laws and regulations, such as with respect to any contamination at our facilities or at third-party waste disposal sites.  We cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from hazardous materials.  Environmental laws and regulations tend to become more stringent over time, and we could incur material additional expenses relating to compliance with future environmental laws.. 10. Table of Contents. For example, our manufacturing processes for wallboard use a significant amount of energy, especially natural gas.  Increased regulation of energy use to address the possible emission of greenhouse gases and climate change could materially increase our manufacturing costs.  The U.S. Congress and several states are considering or have adopted legislation to reduce emission of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide and methane.  Enactment of new climate control legislation or other regulatory initiatives by the U.S. Congress or various states, or the adoption of additional regulations by the EPA and analogous state or Canadian governmental agencies that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases in areas in which we conduct business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  From time to time, legislation has been introduced proposing a \"carbon tax\" on energy use or establishing a so-called \"cap and trade\" system.  Such legislation would likely increase the cost of energy and therefore could materially increase our manufacturing costs.. Environmental regulatory changes or changes in methods used to comply with environmental regulations could adversely affect our suppliers, and therefore the price and availability of synthetic gypsum.  If regulatory changes or changes in methods used to comply with environmental regulations adversely affect our suppliers or the price and availability of synthetic gypsum, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. It is difficult to accurately predict whether or when currently proposed or additional laws and regulations regarding emissions and other environmental concerns will be enacted or what capital expenditures might be required as a result of them.  Stricter regulation of emissions might require us or our suppliers to install emissions control or other equipment at some or all of our or their manufacturing facilities, requiring significant additional capital investments.. Our financial results may be affected by various legal and regulatory proceedings.. We are subject to litigation and regulatory proceedings in the normal course of business and could become subject to additional claims in the future, some of which could be material.  The outcome of legal proceedings may differ from our expectations because the outcomes of litigation and similar disputes are often difficult to predict reliably.  Various factors and developments could lead us to make changes in initial estimates of liabilities and related insurance receivables, where applicable, or make additional estimates, including new or modified estimates as a result of a judicial ruling or judgment, a settlement, regulatory developments or changes in applicable law.  A future adverse ruling, settlement or unfavorable development could result in charges that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be unable to attract and retain key management employees.. Our key management personnel are important to our success.  Our ability to retain our key management personnel or to attract suitable replacements should any members of our management team leave is dependent on the competitive nature of the employment market.  The loss of services from key management personnel or a limitation in their availability could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may experience disruptions in our information technology system and computer networks due to catastrophic events or data security breaches.. We use information technology systems to collect, store and transmit the data needed to operate our business. We may be subject to information technology system failures and network disruptions.  These may be caused by delays or disruptions due to system updates, natural disasters, malicious cyber attacks, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins or similar events or disruptions.  We may in the future add applications to operate more efficiently.  Predictions regarding benefits resulting from the implementation of these projects are subject to uncertainties.  We may not be able to successfully implement the projects without experiencing difficulties.  In addition, any expected benefits of implementing projects might not be realized or the costs of implementation might outweigh the benefits realized.. A disruption in our information technology systems due to a catastrophic event or security breach could interrupt or damage our operations.  In addition, we could be subject to reputational harm or liability if confidential customer information is misappropriated from our information technology systems.  Despite our security measures and business continuity plans, these systems could be vulnerable to disruption, and any such disruption could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to cybersecurity risks that could adversely affect us, and we may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize those risks.. Our business relies on systems, including those of third parties with whom we do business.  Our systems and those of our third parties we work with may be subjected to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access attempts and cyber-attacks that include phishing-attacks, ransomware, malware, and hacking.  Breach of our systems or those of third parties with. 11. Table of Contents. whom we do business could compromise our confidential information and that of our customers or employees, impede or interrupt our business operations, and may result in other negative consequences, including remediation costs, loss of revenue, litigation, significant legal and financial exposure, loss of intellectual property and reputational damage.. To date, we have not experienced a material breach of cybersecurity.  As cyber-attacks become more sophisticated generally, and as we implement changes giving customers and suppliers greater electronic access to our systems, we may be required to incur additional costs to strengthen our systems from outside intrusions and/or maintain insurance coverage related to the threat of such attacks.  Further, the regulatory environment related to information security and privacy is increasingly rigorous, with new and constantly changing requirements applicable to our business and those of third parties with whom we do business, and compliance with those requirements could result in additional costs.  Despite our efforts, we may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber-attacks on our systems or those of the third parties with whom we do business.  While we have implemented administrative and technical controls such as malware and ransomware defense software, regular patching of our software and training of our employees on cybersecurity risk awareness, and taken other preventive actions to reduce the risk of cyber incidents, these measures, and other measures we may take in the future, can be expensive, and may be insufficient, circumvented, or may become ineffective.  Any of the foregoing risks and increased costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Labor disruptions or cost increases could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A work stoppage at one of our facilities could cause us to lose sales, incur increased costs and adversely affect our ability to meet customers' needs.  A plant shutdown or a substantial modification to employment terms could negatively impact us. Approximately 13% of our 621 employees were unionized as of December 31, 2017.  The current collective bargaining agreements with our unionized employees at our Buchanan plant expire on November 30, 2020.  We cannot assure you that we will be able to negotiate new collective bargaining agreements on the same or similar terms as those in the current agreements, or at all, without production interruptions, including labor stoppages.  In the past, we have experienced union organizing efforts directed at our non-union employees.  We may also experience labor cost increases or disruptions in our non-union facilities in circumstances in which we must compete for employees with necessary skills and experience or in tight labor markets.  Any such cost increases, work stoppages or disruptions could limit production, sales volumes and profitability and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our business can be seasonal in nature, and this may cause our quarterly results to vary.. Sales of our wallboard products are, similar to many building products, seasonal in that sales are generally slightly higher from spring through autumn when construction activity is greatest in our markets.  As a result, our quarterly results have varied in the past and may vary from quarter to quarter in the future.  Such variations could have a negative impact on the price of our common stock.  Additionally, because our business is seasonal, unfavorable weather conditions during peak construction periods could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Relating to our Indebtedness. Our current indebtedness, and any future indebtedness we may incur, may limit our operational and financing flexibility and negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our subsidiary, Continental Building Products Operating Company, LLC, or OpCo, is a party to an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement that was entered into in August of 2016 that provided for a $275.0 million senior secured term loan facility, or the Term Loan, and a $75.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility, or the Revolver.  As of December 31, 2017, $271.6 million was outstanding under the Term Loan and no loans were outstanding under the Revolver.  We may incur substantial additional debt in the future.  The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, and other debt instruments we may enter into in the future, may have important consequences, including the following:. • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired;. • the requirement that we use a significant portion of our cash flows from operations to pay interest on any outstanding indebtedness, which would reduce the funds available to us for operations and other purposes; and. • our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate may be limited.. We expect that we will depend primarily on cash generated by our operations for funds to pay our expenses and any amounts due under our credit facility and any other indebtedness we may incur.  Our ability to make these payments depends on our. 12. Table of Contents. future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, many of which we cannot control.  Our business may not generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future and our currently anticipated growth in revenues and cash flows may not be realized, either or both of which could result in our being unable to repay indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs.  If we do not have enough money, we may be required to refinance all or part of our then existing debt, sell assets or borrow more money, in each case on terms that may not be acceptable to us.  In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements, including our existing credit facility, may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives.  Our ability to recapitalize and incur additional debt in the future could also delay or prevent a change in control of our company, make some transactions more difficult and impose additional financial or other covenants on us.  In addition, any significant levels of indebtedness in the future could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have proportionately less debt and could make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Our indebtedness and any inability to pay our debt obligations as they come due or inability to incur additional debt could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The terms of our credit facility imposes operating and financial restrictions on us.. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement contains a number of significant restrictions and covenants that generally limit our ability to, among other things:. • incur or guarantee additional debt;. • create or incur certain liens;. • make certain loan advances;. • engage in acquisitions, consolidations, mergers, changes of control and sales of certain assets;. • pay dividends and make other distributions;. • make optional payments and modifications of junior debt instruments;. • engage in certain affiliate transactions, sales and leasebacks and pledge transactions;. • make certain restricted subsidiary distributions;. • engage in certain lines of business or activities; and. • modify certain agreements.. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement limits our ability to engage in these types of transactions even if we believe that a specific transaction would contribute to our future growth or improve our operating results.  The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement also requires OpCo and its restricted subsidiaries to maintain a specific total leverage ratio in certain circumstances.  See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding the terms of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement.. Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control.  A breach of any of these provisions or the inability to comply with required financial ratios in the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement could result in a default, in which case the lenders will have the right to declare all borrowings to be immediately due and payable.  If we are unable to repay all borrowings when due, whether at maturity or if declared due and payable following a default, the lenders would have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to secure the indebtedness.  If we breach these covenants or fail to comply with the terms of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, and the lenders accelerate the amounts outstanding thereunder, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected.. Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Common Stock. Our future operating results may fluctuate significantly and our current operating results may not be a good indication of our future performance.  Fluctuations in our quarterly financial results could affect our stock price in the future.. Our revenues and operating results have historically varied from period to period and we expect that they will continue to do so as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including the cyclicality and seasonality of our industry.  If our quarterly financial results fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, our stock price could be negatively affected.  Any volatility in our quarterly financial results may make it more difficult for us to raise capital. 13. Table of Contents. in the future or pursue acquisitions that involve issuances of our stock.  Our operating results for prior periods may not be effective predictors of future performance.. We have no present intention to pay dividends on our common stock.. We have no present intention to pay cash dividends on our common stock.  Any determination to pay dividends to holders of our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including our financial condition, results of operations, projections, liquidity, earnings, legal requirements, restrictions in our debt agreements and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant.  Accordingly, you may need to sell your shares of our common stock to realize a return on your investment, and you may not be able to sell your shares at or above the price you paid for them.. If securities or industry analysts do not continue to publish research or reports about our business, publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business or change their recommendations regarding our stock adversely, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock is influenced in part by the research and other reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about us or our business.  We currently have research coverage by industry or financial analysts, but this coverage may not continue.  If analysts do not continue coverage of us, the trading price of our stock would likely be negatively impacted.  Even if analyst coverage continues, if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, or if analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or inaccurate research, our stock price would likely decline.  If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited.. Our business and operations may consume resources faster than we anticipate.  In the future, we may need to raise additional funds through the issuance of new equity securities, debt or a combination of both.  Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, or at all.  If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund our capital requirements.  If we issue new debt securities, the debt holders would have rights senior to common stockholders to make claims on our assets, and the terms of any debt could restrict our operations, including our ability to pay dividends on our common stock.  If we issue additional equity securities, existing stockholders will experience dilution, and the new equity securities could have rights senior to those of our common stock.  Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings.  Thus, our stockholders bear the risk of any future securities offerings by us reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their interest.. We are a holding company and depend on the cash flow of our subsidiaries.. We are a holding company with no material assets other than the equity interests of our subsidiaries.  Our subsidiaries conduct substantially all of our operations and own substantially all of our assets and intellectual property.  Consequently, our cash flow and our ability to meet our obligations and pay any future dividends to our stockholders depends upon the cash flow of our subsidiaries and the payment of funds by our subsidiaries directly or indirectly to us in the form of dividends, distributions and other payments.  Any inability on the part of our subsidiaries to make payments to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Provisions of our charter documents, Delaware law and other documents could discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition at a premium price.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management.  For example, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include provisions that:. • permit us to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock in one or more series and, with respect to each series, fix the number of shares constituting the series and the designation of the series, the voting powers, if any, of the shares of the series and the preferences and other special rights, if any, and any qualifications, limitations or restrictions, of the shares of the series;. • prevent stockholders from calling special meetings;. • restrict the ability of stockholders to act by written consent;. • limit the ability of stockholders to amend our certificate of incorporation and bylaws;. 14. Table of Contents. • require advance notice for nominations for election to the board of directors and for stockholder proposals;. • do not permit cumulative voting in the election of our directors, which means that the holders of a majority of our common stock may elect all of the directors standing for election; and. • establish a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms.. These provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition of our company, including a transaction in which the acquiror may offer a premium price for our common stock.. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or the DGCL, which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits us from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder, as defined in that section, for a period of three years following the date on which that stockholder became an interested stockholder.  In addition, our equity incentive plan permits vesting of stock options and restricted stock, and payments to be made to the employees thereunder in certain circumstances, in connection with a change of control of our company, which could discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition at a premium price.  In addition, our credit facility, and other debt instruments we may enter into in the future, may include provisions entitling the lenders to demand immediate repayment of all borrowings upon the occurrence of certain change of control events relating to our company, which also could discourage, delay or prevent a business combination transaction.. Our certificate of incorporation includes a forum selection clause, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us.. Our certificate of incorporation provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the sole and exclusive forum for any stockholder (including any beneficial owner) to bring (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed to us or to our stockholders by any of our directors, officers, or employees, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL or our certificate of incorporation or bylaws, or (iv) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine, will be a state court located within the State of Delaware (or, if no state court located within the State of Delaware has jurisdiction, the federal district court for the District of Delaware); in all cases subject to the court's having personal jurisdiction over the indispensable parties named as defendants.  Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock is deemed to have notice of and consented to the foregoing provisions.  This forum selection provision in our certificate of incorporation may limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us.  It is also possible that, notwithstanding the forum selection clause included in our certificate of incorporation, a court could rule that such a provision is inapplicable or unenforceable."
