[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below before making an investment decision. Our business could be harmed if any of these risks, as well as other risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, materialize. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing the risks described below, you should also refer to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes and schedules, and other filings with the SEC.. We depend on a limited number of major vehicle sellers for a substantial portion of our revenues. The loss of one or more of these major sellers could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and financial position, and an inability to increase our sources of vehicle supply could adversely affect our growth rates.. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenue for fiscal 2018. Historically, a limited number of vehicle sellers have collectively accounted for a substantial portion of our revenues. Vehicle sellers have terminated agreements with us in the past in particular markets, which has affected revenues in those markets. There can be no assurance that our existing agreements will not be canceled. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into future agreements with vehicle sellers or that we will be able to retain our existing supply of salvage vehicles. A reduction in vehicles from a significant vehicle seller or any material changes in the terms of an arrangement with a significant vehicle seller could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial position. In addition, a failure to increase our sources of vehicle supply could adversely affect our earnings and revenue growth rates.. Our expansion into markets outside the U.S., including expansions in Europe, Brazil, and the Middle East expose us to risks arising from operating in international markets. Any failure to successfully integrate businesses acquired or operational capabilities established outside the U.S. could have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.. We first expanded our operations outside the U.S. in fiscal 2003 with an acquisition in Canada. Subsequently, in fiscal 2008 we made a significant acquisition in the U.K., followed by acquisitions in the U.A.E., Brazil, Germany, and Spain in fiscal 2013, expansions into Bahrain and Oman in fiscal 2015, expansion into the Republic of Ireland and India in fiscal 2016, and an acquisition in Finland in fiscal 2018. In addition, we continue to evaluate acquisitions and other opportunities outside of the U.S. Acquisitions or other strategies to expand our operations outside of the U.S. pose substantial risks and uncertainties that could have an adverse effect on our future operating results. In particular, we may not be successful in realizing anticipated synergies from these acquisitions, or we may experience unanticipated costs or expenses integrating the acquired operations into our existing business. We have and may continue to incur substantial expenses establishing new yards and operations, acquiring buyers and sellers, and implementing shared services capabilities in international markets. Among other things, we plan to ultimately deploy our proprietary auction technologies at all of our foreign operations and we cannot predict whether this deployment will be successful or will result in increases in the revenues or operating efficiencies of any acquired companies relative to their historic operating performance. Integration of our respective operations, including information technology and financial and administrative functions, may not proceed as anticipated and could result in unanticipated costs or expenses such as capital expenditures that could have an adverse effect on our future operating results. We cannot provide any assurance that we will achieve our business and financial objectives in connection with these acquisitions or our strategic decision to expand our operations internationally. For example, although we continue to operate a technology and operations center in India for administrative support, we recently decided to suspend our salvage operations in India, which did not have a material effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial position, until the Indian market develops in a manner better suited to our business model.. As we continue to expand our business internationally, we will need to develop policies and procedures to manage our business on a global scale. Operationally, acquired businesses typically depend on key seller relationships, and our failure to maintain those relationships would have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and could have an adverse effect on our future operating results. Moreover, success in opening and operating facilities in markets can be dependent upon establishing new relationships with buyers and sellers, and our failure to establish those relationships could have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and future operating results.. In addition, we anticipate our international operations will continue to subject us to a variety of risks associated with operating on an international basis, including:. • the difficulty of managing and staffing foreign offices;. 12. • the increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations;. • the need to localize our product offerings, particularly the need to implement our online auction platform in foreign countries;. • the need to comply with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations;. • tariffs and trade barriers and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to operate in certain foreign markets;. • exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk, which may have an adverse impact on our revenues and revenue growth rates;. • adapting to different business cultures and market structures, particularly where we seek to implement our auction model in markets where insurers have historically not played a substantial role in the disposition of salvage vehicles; and. • repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions to the U.S. may result in higher effective tax rates.. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations and have an adverse effect on our operating results.. On June 23, 2016, the U.K. held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the European Union, commonly referred to as \"Brexit.\" In February 2017, the British Parliament voted in favor of allowing the British government to begin negotiating the terms of the U.K.'s withdrawal from the European Union and discussions with the European Union began in March 2017. The ultimate effects of Brexit on us are difficult to predict, but adverse consequences concerning Brexit or the European Union could include deterioration in global economic conditions, instability in global financial markets, political uncertainty, volatility in currency exchange rates, or adverse changes in the cross-border agreements currently in place, any of which could have an adverse impact on our financial results in the future. The ultimate effects of Brexit on us will also depend on the terms of agreements, if any, that the U.K. and the European Union make to retain access to each other's respective markets either during a transitional period or more permanently.. In addition, certain acquisitions in the U.K. may be reviewed by the Competition and Markets Authority (U.K. Regulator). If an inquiry is made by the U.K. Regulator, we may be required to demonstrate that our acquisitions will not result, or be expected to result, in a substantial lessening of competition in the U.K. market. Although we believe that there will not be a substantial lessening of competition in the U.K. market, based on our analysis of the relevant U.K. markets, there can be no assurance that the U.K. Regulator will agree with us if it decides to make an inquiry. If the U.K. Regulator determines that by our acquisitions of certain assets, there is or likely will be a substantial lessening of competition in the U.K. market, we could be required to divest some portion of our U.K. assets. In the event of a divestiture order by the U.K. Regulator, the assets disposed may be sold for substantially less than their carrying value. Accordingly, any divestiture could have a material adverse effect on our operating results in the period of the divestiture.. Our operations and acquisitions in certain foreign areas expose us to political, regulatory, economic, and reputational risks.. Although we have implemented policies, procedures and training designed to ensure compliance with anti-bribery laws, trade controls and economic sanctions, and similar regulations, our employees or agents may take actions in violation of our policies. We may incur costs or other penalties in the event that any such violations occur, which could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation.. In some cases, the enforcement practices of governmental regulators in certain foreign areas and the procedural and substantive rights and remedies available to us may vary significantly from those in the United States, which could have an adverse effect on our business.. Although we face risks associated with international expansion in each of the non-U.S. markets where we operate, our current focus on the German market heightens the risks we face relating to our expansion plans in Germany.. In addition, some of our recent acquisitions have required us to integrate non-U.S. companies which had not, until our acquisition, been subject to U.S. law. In many countries outside of the United States, particularly in those with developing. 13. economies, it may be common for persons to engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), U.K. Bribery Act, Brazil Clean Companies Act, India's Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 or similar local anti-bribery laws. These laws generally prohibit companies and their employees or agents from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Failure by us and our subsidiaries to comply with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results and financial position.. We face risks associated with the implementation of our salvage auction model in markets that may not operate on the same terms as the U.S. market. For example, certain markets operate on a principal rather than agent basis, which may have an adverse impact on our gross margin percentages and expose us to inventory risks that we do not experience in the U.S.. Some of our target markets outside the U.S. operate in a manner substantially different than our historic market in the U.S. For example, new markets may operate either wholly or partially on the principal model, in which the vehicle is purchased then resold for our own account, rather than the agency model employed in the U.S., in which we generally act as a sales agent for the legal owner of vehicles. Further, operating on a principal basis exposes us to inventory risks, including losses from theft, damage, and obsolescence. In addition, our business in the U.S., Canada, and the U.K. has been established and grown based largely on our ability to build relationships with insurance carriers. In other markets, including Germany, insurers have traditionally been less involved in the disposition of salvage vehicles. As we expand into markets outside the U.S., Canada, and the U.K., including Germany in particular, we cannot predict whether markets will readily adapt to our strategy of online auctions of automobiles sourced principally through vehicle insurers. Any failure of new markets to adopt our business model could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and financial position.. Acquisitions typically will increase our sales and profitability although, given the typical size of our acquisitions to date, most acquisitions will not individually have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations and financial position. We may not always be able to introduce our processes and selling platform to acquired companies due to different operating models in international jurisdictions or other facts. As a result, the associated benefits of acquisitions may be delayed for years in some international situations. During this period, the acquisitions may operate at a loss and certain acquisitions, while profitable, may operate at a margin percentage that is below our overall operating margin percentage and, accordingly, have an adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations and financial position. Hence, the conversion periods vary from weeks to years and cannot be predicted.. We have developed a new proprietary enterprise operating system, and we may experience difficulties operating our business as we continue to design and develop this system.. We have developed a new proprietary enterprise operating system to address our international expansion needs. The ongoing design, development, and implementation of our enterprise operating systems carry certain risks, including the risk of significant design or deployment errors causing disruptions, delays or deficiencies, which may make our website and services unavailable. This type of interruption could prevent us from processing vehicles for our sellers and may prevent us from selling vehicles through our internet bidding platform, VB3, which would adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and financial position. In addition, the transition to our new internally developed proprietary system will require us to commit substantial financial, operational and technical resources before the volume of business increases, without assurance that the volume of business will increase. We began using our new internally developed proprietary system with our expansion into Spain in fiscal 2016 and Germany in fiscal 2017.. We may also implement additional or enhanced information systems in the future to accommodate our growth and to provide additional capabilities and functionality. The implementation of new systems and enhancements is frequently disruptive to the underlying business of an enterprise and can be time-consuming and expensive, increase management responsibilities and divert management attention. Any disruptions relating to our system enhancements or any problems with the implementation, particularly any disruptions impacting our operations or our ability to accurately report our financial performance on a timely basis during the implementation period, could materially and adversely affect our business. Even if we do not encounter these material and adverse effects, the implementation of these enhancements may be much more costly than we anticipated. If we are unable to successfully implement the information systems enhancements as planned, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted.. Our success depends on maintaining the integrity of our systems and infrastructure. As our operations continue to grow in both size and scope, domestically and internationally, we must continue to provide reliable, real-time access to our systems by our customers through improving and upgrading our systems and infrastructure for enhanced products, services, features and functionality. Any failure to maintain the integrity of our systems and infrastructure may result in loss of customers due to. 14. among other things, slow delivery times, unreliable service levels or insufficient capacity, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial position and results of operations.. The impairment of internally developed capitalized software costs could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and financial condition.. We capitalize certain costs associated with the development of new software products, new software for internal use and major software enhancements to existing software. These costs are amortized over the estimated useful life of the software beginning with its introduction or roll-out. If, at any time, it is determined that capitalized software provides a reduced economic benefit, the unamortized portion of the capitalized development costs will be expensed, in part or in full, as an impairment, which may have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations and financial position. For example, during fiscal 2017, we recognized a $19.4 million charge primarily related to fully impairing costs previously capitalized in connection with the development of business operating software.. Disruptions to our information technology systems, including failure to prevent outages, maintain security, prevent unauthorized access to our information technology systems and other confidential information, could disrupt our business and materially and adversely affect our reputation, consolidated results of operations and financial condition.. Information availability and security risks for online commerce companies have significantly increased in recent years because of, in addition to other factors, the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, and other external parties. These threats may derive from fraud or malice on the part of third parties or current or former employees. In addition, human error or accidental technological failure could make us vulnerable to information technology system disruptions and/or cyber-attacks, including the introduction of malicious computer viruses or code into our system, phishing attacks, or other information technology data security incidents.. Our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential, proprietary and other information in our computer systems and networks. Our customers and other parties in the payments value chain rely on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software and networks to conduct their operations. In addition, to access our products and services, our customers increasingly use personal smartphones, tablet PCs and other mobile devices that may be beyond our control.. Information technology system disruptions, cyber-attacks or other cyber security incidents could materially and adversely affect our reputation, operating results, or financial condition by, among other things, making our auction platform inoperable for a period of time, damaging our reputation with buyers, sellers, and insurance companies as a result of the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information (including account data information), or resulting in governmental investigations, litigation, liability, fines, or penalties against us. If such attacks are not detected immediately, their effect could be compounded. While we maintain insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions, cover certain aspects of these cyber risks, our insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses and would not remedy damage to our reputation.. We have in the past identified attempts by unauthorized third parties to access our systems and disrupt our online auctions. These attempts have caused minor service interruptions, which were promptly addressed and resolved, and our online service was restored to normal business. For example, in April 2015, we identified that unauthorized third parties had gained access to data provided to us by our members that is considered to be personal information in certain jurisdictions. We immediately investigated, including the engagement of an external expert security firm, and made the required notifications to members whose information may have been accessed and to regulatory agencies.. We are constantly evaluating and implementing new technologies and processes to manage risks relating to cyber-attacks and system and network disruptions, including but not limited to usage errors by our employees, power outages and catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes, floods, hurricanes and earthquakes. We have further enhanced our security protocols based on the investigation we conducted in response to the security incident. Nevertheless, we cannot provide assurances that our efforts to address prior data security incidents and mitigate against the risk of future data security incidents or system failures will be successful. The techniques used by criminals to obtain unauthorized access to sensitive data change frequently and are often not recognized immediately. We may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures and believe that cyber-attacks and threats against us have occurred in the past and are likely to continue in the future. If our systems are compromised again in the future, become inoperable for extended periods of time, or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, and our ability to provide many of our electronic and online solutions to our customers may be impaired. In addition, as cyber-threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate. 15. and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. Any of the risks described above could materially and adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations.. Our business is exposed to risks associated with online commerce security and credit card fraud.. Consumer concerns over the security of transactions conducted on the internet or the privacy of users may inhibit the growth of the internet and online commerce. To securely transmit confidential information such as customer credit card numbers, we rely on encryption and authentication technology. Unanticipated events or developments could result in a compromise or breach of the systems we use to protect customer transaction data. Furthermore, our servers may also be vulnerable to viruses transmitted via the internet and other points of access. While we proactively check for intrusions into our infrastructure, a new or undetected virus could cause a service disruption.. We maintain an information security program and our processing systems incorporate multiple levels of protection in order to address or otherwise mitigate these risks. Despite these mitigation efforts, there can be no assurance that we will be immune to these risks and not suffer losses in the future. Under current credit card practices, we may be held liable for fraudulent credit card transactions and other payment disputes with customers. As such, we have implemented certain anti-fraud measures, including credit card verification procedures. However, a failure to adequately prevent fraudulent credit card transactions could adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations.. Our security measures may also be breached due to employee error, malfeasance, insufficiency, or defective design. Additionally, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees, users, or customers to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or our users' or customers' data. Any such breach or unauthorized access could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, and a loss of confidence in the security of our products and services that could have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial position and results of operations.. Our business is subject to a variety of domestic and international laws and other obligations regarding privacy and data protection.. We are subject to federal, state and international laws, directives, and regulations relating to the collection, use, retention, disclosure, security and transfer of personal data. These laws, directives, and regulations, and their interpretation and enforcement continue to evolve and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Recent regulatory changes in Europe have created compliance uncertainty regarding certain transfers of personal data from Europe to the United States. For example, the General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\"), which went into effect in the European Union (\"EU\") on May 25, 2018, applies to all of our activities conducted from an establishment in the EU and may also apply to related products and services that we offer to EU users. Complying with the GDPR and similar emerging and changing privacy and data protection requirements may cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices. Noncompliance with our legal obligations relating to privacy and data protection could result in penalties, legal proceedings by governmental entities or others, and significant legal and financial exposure and could affect our ability to retain and attract customers. Any of the risks described above could adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations.. Implementation of our online auction model in new markets may not result in the same synergies and benefits that we achieved when we implemented the model in the U.S., Canada, and the U.K.. We believe that the implementation of our proprietary auction technologies across our operations over the last decade had a favorable impact on our results of operations by increasing the size and geographic scope of our buyer base, increasing the average selling price for vehicles sold through our sales, and lowering expenses associated with vehicle sales.. We implemented our online system across all of our U.S., Canada, and U.K. salvage yards beginning in fiscal 2004 and 2008, respectively, and experienced increases in revenues and average selling prices, as well as improved operating efficiencies in those markets. In considering new markets, we consider the potential synergies from the implementation of our model based in large part on our experience in the U.S., Canada, and the U.K. However, we cannot predict whether these synergies will also be realized in new markets.. 16. Failure to have sufficient capacity to accept additional cars at one or more of our storage facilities could adversely affect our relationships with insurance companies or other sellers of vehicles.. Capacity at our storage facilities varies from period to period and from region to region. For example, following adverse weather conditions in a particular area, our yards in that area may fill and limit our ability to accept additional salvage vehicles while we process existing inventories. For example, Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, Sandy, and Harvey had, in certain quarters, an adverse effect on our operating results, in part because of yard capacity constraints in the impacted areas of the United States. We regularly evaluate our capacity in all our markets and where appropriate, seek to increase capacity through the acquisition of additional land and yards. We may not be able to reach agreements to purchase independent storage facilities in markets where we have limited excess capacity, and zoning restrictions or difficulties obtaining use permits may limit our ability to expand our capacity through acquisitions of new land. Failure to have sufficient capacity at one or more of our yards could adversely affect our relationships with insurance companies or other sellers of vehicles, which could have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial position.. Because the growth of our business has been due in large part to acquisitions and development of new facilities, the rate of growth of our business and revenues may decline if we are not able to successfully complete acquisitions and develop new facilities.. We seek to increase our sales and profitability through the acquisition of additional facilities and the development of new facilities. For example, in fiscal 2016, we opened new operational facilities in Castledermot, Republic of Ireland; Algete, Spain (Madrid); and six new operational facilities in the U.S. In fiscal 2017, we opened a new operational facility in Bad Fallingbostel, Germany (Hanover), a new operational facility in Betim, Minas Gerais, Brazil, nine new operational facilities in the U.S. and acquired Cycle Express, LLC, which conducts business primarily as National Powersport Auctions (NPA), a leading non-salvage auction platform for motorcycles, snowmobiles, watercraft and other powersports vehicles. NPA currently operates facilities in Atlanta, Georgia; Cincinnati, Ohio; Dallas, Texas; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and San Diego, California. In fiscal 2018, we opened new operational facilities in Andrews, Texas (Midland), Exeter, Rhode Island, and Lumberton, North Carolina, a new operational facility in Belfast, Northern Ireland, a new operational facility in Nobitz, Germany (Leipzig), and acquired locations in the municipalities of Espoo; Pirkkala; Oulu; and Turku, Finland. Acquisitions are difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons, including competition among prospective buyers, the availability of affordable financing in the capital markets and the need to satisfy applicable closing conditions and obtain antitrust and other regulatory approvals on acceptable terms. There can be no assurance that we will be able to:. • continue to acquire additional facilities on favorable terms;. • expand existing facilities in no-growth regulatory environments;. • obtain or retain buyers, sellers, and sales volumes in new markets or facilities;. • increase revenues and profitability at acquired and new facilities;. • maintain the historical revenue and earnings growth rates we have been able to obtain through facility openings and strategic acquisitions;. • create new vehicle storage facilities that meet our current revenue and profitability requirements; or. • obtain necessary regulatory approvals under applicable antitrust and competition laws.. In addition, certain of the acquisition agreements by which we have acquired companies require the former owners to indemnify us against certain liabilities related to the operation of the company before we acquired it. In most of these agreements, however, the liability of the former owners is limited and certain former owners may be unable to meet their indemnification responsibilities. We cannot assure that these indemnification provisions will protect us fully or at all, and as a result we may face unexpected liabilities that adversely affect our financial statements. Any failure to continue to successfully identify and complete acquisitions and develop new facilities could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial position.. 17. As we continue to expand our operations, our failure to manage growth could harm our business and adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and financial position.. Our ability to manage growth depends not only on our ability to successfully integrate new facilities, but also on our ability to:. • hire, train and manage additional qualified personnel;. • establish new relationships or expand existing relationships with vehicle sellers;. • identify and acquire or lease suitable premises on competitive terms;. • secure adequate capital; and. • maintain the supply of vehicles from vehicle sellers.. Our inability to control or manage these growth factors effectively could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial position.. Our annual and quarterly performance may fluctuate, causing the price of our stock to decline.. Our revenues and operating results have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future on a quarterly and annual basis as a result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Factors that may affect our operating results include, but are not limited to, the following:. • fluctuations in the market value of salvage and used vehicles;. • fluctuations in commodity prices, particularly the per ton price of crushed car bodies;. • the impact of foreign exchange gain and loss as a result of international operations;. • our ability to successfully integrate our newly acquired operations in international markets and any additional markets we may enter;. • the availability of salvage vehicles or other vehicles we sell;. • variations in vehicle accident rates;. • member participation in the internet bidding process;. • delays or changes in state title processing;. • changes in international, state or federal laws, regulations, or treaties affecting the vehicles we sell;. • changes in the application, interpretation, and enforcement of existing laws, regulations or treaties;. • trade disputes and other political, diplomatic, legal, or regulatory developments;. • inconsistent application or enforcement of laws or regulations by regulators, governmental or quasi-governmental entities, or law enforcement or quasi-law enforcement agencies, as compared to our competitors;. • changes in laws affecting who may purchase the vehicles we sell;. • our ability to integrate and manage our acquisitions successfully;. • the timing and size of our new facility openings;. • the announcement of new vehicle supply agreements by us or our competitors;. • the severity of weather and seasonality of weather patterns;. • the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure;. • the availability and cost of general business insurance;. 18. • labor costs and collective bargaining;. • changes in the current levels of out of state and foreign demand for salvage vehicles;. • the introduction of a similar internet product by a competitor; and. • the ability to obtain or maintain necessary permits to operate.. Due to the foregoing factors, our operating results in one or more future periods can be expected to fluctuate. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as any indication of future performance. In the event such fluctuations result in our financial performance being below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, the price of our common stock could decline substantially.. Our internet-based sales model has increased the relative importance of intellectual property assets to our business, and any inability to protect those rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, or results of operations.. Our intellectual property rights include patents relating to our auction technologies, as well as trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and other intellectual property rights. In addition, we may enter into agreements with third parties regarding the license or other use of our intellectual property. Effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are distributed, deployed, or made available. We seek to maintain certain intellectual property rights as trade secrets. The secrecy could be compromised by third parties, or intentionally or accidentally by our employees, which would cause us to lose the competitive advantage resulting from those trade secrets. Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights, or any inability to protect our intellectual property rights, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial position.. We also may not be able to acquire or maintain appropriate domain names in all countries in which we do business. Furthermore, regulations governing domain names may not protect our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. We may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon, or diminish the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights.. We have in the past been and may in the future be subject to intellectual property rights claims, which are costly to defend, could require us to pay damages, and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future.. Litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights are common among companies who rely heavily on intellectual property rights. Our reliance on intellectual property rights has increased significantly in recent years as we have implemented our auction-style sales technologies across our business and ceased conducting live auctions. Recent U.S. Supreme Court precedent potentially restricts patentability of software inventions by affirming that patent claims merely requiring application of an abstract idea on standard computers utilizing generic computer functions are patent ineligible, which may impact our ability to enforce our issued patent and obtain new patents. As we face increasing competition, the possibility of intellectual property rights claims against us increases. Litigation and any other intellectual property claims, whether with or without merit, can be time-consuming, expensive to litigate and settle, and can divert management resources and attention from our core business. An adverse determination in current or future litigation could prevent us from offering our products and services in the manner currently conducted. We may also have to pay damages or seek a license for the technology, which may not be available on reasonable terms and which may significantly increase our operating expenses, if it is available for us to license at all. We could also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense.. If we experience problems with our subhaulers and trucking fleet operations, our business could be harmed.. We rely primarily upon independent subhaulers to pick up and deliver vehicles to and from our storage facilities in the U.S., Canada, Brazil, the Republic of Ireland, Germany, Finland, the U.A.E., Oman, Bahrain, and Spain. We also utilize, to a lesser extent, independent subhaulers in the U.K. Our failure to pick up and deliver vehicles in a timely and accurate manner could harm our reputation and brand, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Further, an increase in fuel cost may lead to increased prices charged by our independent subhaulers, which may significantly increase our cost. We may not be able to pass these costs on to our sellers or buyers.. 19. In addition to using independent subhaulers, in the U.K. we utilize a fleet of company trucks to pick up and deliver vehicles from our U.K. storage facilities. In connection therewith, we are subject to the risks associated with providing trucking services, including inclement weather, disruptions in transportation infrastructure, accidents and related injury claims, availability and price of fuel, any of which could result in an increase in our operating expenses and reduction in our net income.. We are partially self-insured for certain losses and if our estimates of the cost of future claims differ from actual trends, our results of operations could be harmed.. We are partially self-insured for certain losses related to our different lines of insurance coverage including, without limitation, medical insurance, general liability, workers' compensation and auto liability. Our liability represents an estimate of the ultimate cost of claims incurred as of the balance sheet date. The estimated liability is not discounted and is established based upon analysis of historical data and actuarial estimates. Further, we utilize independent actuaries to assist us in establishing the proper amount of reserves for anticipated payouts associated with these self-insured exposures. While we believe these estimates are reasonable based on the information currently available, if actual trends, including the severity of claims and medical cost inflation, differ from our estimates, our results of operations could be impacted.. Our executive officers, directors and their affiliates hold a large percentage of our stock and their interests may differ from other stockholders.. Our executive officers, directors and their affiliates beneficially own, in the aggregate, 15.9% of our common stock as of July 31, 2018. If they were to act together, these stockholders would have significant influence over most matters requiring approval by stockholders, including the election of directors, any amendments to our certificate of incorporation and certain significant corporate transactions, including potential merger or acquisition transactions. In addition, without the consent of these stockholders, we could be delayed or prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us or our other investors. These stockholders may take these actions even if they are opposed by our other investors.. We have certain provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws which may have an anti-takeover effect or that may delay, defer or prevent acquisition bids for us that a stockholder might consider favorable and limit attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management.. Our board of directors is authorized to create and issue from time to time, without stockholder approval, up to an aggregate of 5,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may include rights superior to the rights of the holders of common stock. In addition, our bylaws establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. These anti-takeover provisions and other provisions under Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors of their choosing and cause us to take other corporate actions the stockholders desire.. If we lose key management or are unable to attract and retain the talent required for our business, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our objectives.. Our future success depends in large part upon the leadership and performance of our executive management team, all of whom are employed on an at-will basis and none of whom are subject to any agreements not to compete. If we lose the service of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, in particular Willis J. Johnson, our Chairman, or A. Jayson Adair, our Chief Executive Officer, or if one or more of these executives decide to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives.. Cash investments are subject to risks.. We may invest our excess cash in securities or money market funds backed by securities, which may include U.S. treasuries, other federal, state and municipal debt, bonds, preferred stock, commercial paper, insurance contracts and other securities both privately and publicly traded. All securities are subject to risk, including fluctuations in interest rates, credit risk, market risk and systemic economic risk. Changes or movements in any of these risk factors may result in a loss or impairment to our invested cash and may have a material effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial position.. 20. Rapid technological changes may render our technology obsolete or decrease the competitiveness of our services.. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the functionality and features of our websites and software. The internet and the online commerce industry are rapidly changing. In particular, the online commerce industry is characterized by increasingly complex systems and infrastructures. If competitors introduce new services embodying new technologies or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing websites and proprietary technology and systems may become obsolete. Our future success will depend on our ability to:. • enhance our existing services;. • develop and license new services and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our current and prospective customers; and. • respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices in a cost-effective and timely basis.. Developing our websites and other proprietary technology entails significant technical and business risks. We may use new technologies ineffectively or we may fail to adapt our websites, transaction-processing systems and network infrastructure to customer requirements or emerging industry standards. If we face material delays in introducing new services, products and enhancements, our customers and suppliers may forego the use of our services and use those of our competitors.. New member programs could impact our operating results.. We have or will initiate programs to open our auctions to the general public. These programs include the Registered Broker program through which the public can purchase vehicles through a registered member and the Market Maker program through which registered members can open Copart storefronts with internet kiosks enabling the general public to search our inventory and purchase vehicles. Initiating programs that allow access to our online auctions to the general public will involve material expenditures and we cannot predict what future benefit, if any, will be derived.. Factors such as mild weather conditions can have an adverse effect on our revenues and operating results, as well as our revenue and earnings growth rates, by reducing the available supply of salvage vehicles. Conversely, extreme weather conditions can result in an oversupply of salvage vehicles that requires us to incur abnormal expenses to respond to market demands.. Mild weather conditions tend to result in a decrease in the available supply of salvage vehicles because traffic accidents decrease and fewer automobiles are damaged. Accordingly, mild weather can have an adverse effect on our salvage vehicle inventories, which would be expected to have an adverse effect on our revenue and operating results and related growth rates. Conversely, our inventories will tend to increase in poor weather such as a harsh winter or as a result of adverse weather-related conditions such as flooding. During periods of mild weather conditions, our ability to increase our revenues and improve our operating results and related growth will be increasingly dependent on our ability to obtain additional vehicle sellers and to compete more effectively in the market, each of which is subject to the other risks and uncertainties described in these sections. In addition, extreme weather conditions, although they increase the available supply of salvage cars, can have an adverse effect on our operating results. For example, during fiscal 2006, fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2018, we recognized substantial additional costs associated with Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, Sandy, and Harvey. Weather events have had, in certain quarters, an adverse effect on our operating results, in part because of yard capacity constraints in the impacted areas of the U.S. These additional costs were characterized as \"abnormal\" under ASC 330, Inventory, and included premiums for subhaulers, payroll, equipment and facilities expenses directly related to the operating conditions created by the hurricanes. In the event that we were to again experience extremely adverse weather or other anomalous conditions that result in an abnormally high number of salvage vehicles in one or more of our markets, those conditions could have an adverse effect on our future operating results.. Macroeconomic factors such as high fuel prices, declines in commodity prices, declines in used car prices, and vehicle-related technological advances may have an adverse effect on our revenues and operating results, as well as our earnings growth rates.. Macroeconomic factors that affect oil prices and the automobile and commodity markets can have adverse effects on our revenues, revenue growth rates (if any), and operating results. Significant increases in the cost of fuel could lead to a reduction in miles driven per car and a reduction in accident rates. A material reduction in accident rates, whether due to, among other things, a reduction in miles driven per car, vehicle-related technological advances such as accident avoidance systems and, to the extent widely adopted, the advent of autonomous vehicles, could have a material impact on revenue growth. In addition, under our Percentage Incentive Program contracts, which we refer to as PIP, the cost of towing the vehicle to one of our. 21. facilities is included in the PIP fee. We may incur increased fees, which we may not be able to pass on to our vehicle sellers. A material increase in tow rates could have a material impact on our operating results. Volatility in fuel, commodity, and used car prices could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and revenue growth rates in future periods.. The vehicle sales industry is highly competitive and we may not be able to compete successfully.. We face significant competition for the supply of salvage and other vehicles and for the buyers of those vehicles. We believe our principal competitors include other auction and vehicle remarketing service companies with whom we compete directly in obtaining vehicles from insurance companies and other sellers, and large vehicle dismantlers, who may buy salvage vehicles directly from insurance companies, bypassing the salvage sales process. Many of the insurance companies have established relationships with competitive remarketing companies and large dismantlers. Certain of our competitors may have greater financial resources than us. Due to the limited number of vehicle sellers, particularly in the U.K., and other foreign markets, the absence of long-term contractual commitments between us and our sellers and the increasingly competitive market environment, there can be no assurance that our competitors will not gain market share at our expense.. We may also encounter significant competition for local, regional and national supply agreements with vehicle sellers. There can be no assurance that the existence of other local, regional or national contracts entered into by our competitors will not have a material adverse effect on our business or our expansion plans. Furthermore, we are likely to face competition from major competitors in the acquisition of vehicle storage facilities, which could significantly increase the cost of such acquisitions and thereby materially impede our expansion objectives or have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. These potential new competitors may include consolidators of automobile dismantling businesses, organized salvage vehicle buying groups, automobile manufacturers, automobile auctioneers and software companies. While most vehicle sellers have abandoned or reduced efforts to sell salvage vehicles directly without the use of service providers such as us, there can be no assurance that this trend will continue, which could adversely affect our market share, consolidated results of operations and financial position. Additionally, existing or new competitors may be significantly larger and have greater financial and marketing resources than us; therefore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future.. Government regulation of the vehicle sales industry may impair our operations, increase our costs of doing business and create potential liability.. Participants in the vehicle sales industry are subject to, and may be required to expend funds to ensure compliance with a variety of governmental, regulatory and administrative rules, regulations, land use ordinances, licensure requirements and procedures, including but not limited to those governing vehicle registration, the environment, zoning and land use, and anti-money laundering. Failure to comply with present or future regulations or changes in interpretations of existing regulations may result in impairment of our operations and the imposition of penalties and other liabilities. At various times, we may be involved in disputes with local governmental officials regarding the development and/or operation of our business facilities. We believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with applicable regulatory requirements. We may be subject to similar types of regulations by federal, national, international, provincial, state and local governmental agencies in new markets. In addition, new regulatory requirements or changes in existing requirements may delay or increase the cost of opening new facilities, may limit our base of vehicle buyers and may decrease demand for our vehicles.. Changes in laws or the interpretation of laws, including foreign laws and regulations, affecting the import and export of vehicles may have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. Our internet-based auction-style model has allowed us to offer our products and services to international markets and has increased our international buyer base. As a result, foreign importers of vehicles now represent a significant part of our total buyer base. As a result our foreign buyers may be subject to a variety of foreign laws and regulations, including the imposition of import duties by foreign countries. Changes in laws, regulations, and treaties that restrict or impede or negatively affect the economics surrounding the importation of vehicles into foreign countries may reduce the demand for vehicles and impact our ability to maintain or increase our international buyer base. In addition, we and our vehicle buyers must work with foreign customs agencies and other non-U.S. governmental officials, who are responsible for the interpretation, application, and enforcement of these laws, regulations, and treaties. Any inability to obtain requisite approvals or agreements from such authorities could adversely impact the ability of our buyers to import vehicles into foreign countries. In addition, any disputes or disagreements with foreign agencies or officials over import duties, tariffs, or similar matters, including disagreements over the value assigned to imported vehicles, could adversely affect our costs and the ability and costs of our buyers to import vehicles into foreign countries. For example, in March 2008, a decree issued by the president of Mexico became effective that placed restrictions on the types of vehicles that can be imported into Mexico from the U.S. The adoption of similar laws or regulations in other jurisdictions that have the effect of reducing or curtailing our activities abroad, changes in the. 22. interpretation, application, and enforcement of laws, regulations, or treaties, any failure to comply with non-U.S. laws or regulatory interpretations, or any legal or regulatory interpretations or governmental actions that significantly increase our costs or the costs of our buyers could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial position by reducing the demand for our products and services and our ability to compete in non-U.S. markets.. The operation of our storage facilities poses certain environmental risks, which could adversely affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.. Our operations are subject to federal, state, national, international, provincial and local laws and regulations regarding the protection of the environment in the countries which we have storage facilities. In some cases, we may acquire land with existing environmental issues, including landfills as an example. In the salvage vehicle remarketing industry, large numbers of wrecked vehicles are stored at storage facilities and during that time, spills of fuel, motor oil and other fluids may occur, resulting in soil, surface water or groundwater contamination. In addition, certain of our facilities generate and/or store petroleum products and other hazardous materials, including waste solvents and used oil. In the U.K., we provide vehicle de-pollution and crushing services for end-of-life program vehicles. We could incur substantial expenditures for preventative, investigative or remedial action and could be exposed to liability arising from our operations, contamination by previous users of certain of our acquired facilities or facilities which we may acquire in the future, or the disposal of our waste at off-site locations. Environmental laws and regulations could become more stringent over time and there can be no assurance that we or our operations will not be subject to significant costs in the future. Although we have obtained indemnification for pre-existing environmental liabilities from many of the persons and entities from whom we have acquired facilities, there can be no assurance that such indemnifications will be adequate. Any such expenditures or liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial position.. Adverse U.S. and international economic conditions may negatively affect our business, operating results, or financial condition.. The capital and credit markets have historically experienced extreme volatility and disruption, which has in the past and may in the future lead to economic downturns in the U.S. and abroad. As a result of any economic downturn, the number of miles driven may decrease, which may lead to fewer accident claims, a reduction of vehicle repairs, and fewer salvage vehicles. Increases in unemployment, as a result of any economic downturn, may lead to an increase in the number of uninsured motorists. Uninsured motorists are responsible for disposition of their vehicle if involved in an accident. Disposition generally is either the repair or disposal of the vehicle. In the situation where the owner of the wrecked vehicle, and not an insurance company, is responsible for its disposition, we believe it is more likely that vehicle will be repaired or, if disposed, disposed through channels other than us. Adverse credit markets may also affect the ability of members to secure financing to purchase salvaged vehicles which may adversely affect demand. In addition, if the banking system or the financial markets deteriorate or are volatile, our credit facility or our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing may be affected. These adverse economic conditions and events may have a negative effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and financial position.. If we determine that our goodwill has become impaired, we could incur significant charges that would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations.. Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of assets acquired in business combinations. As of July 31, 2018, the amount of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet subject to future impairment testing was $337.2 million.. Pursuant to ASC 350, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other, we are required to annually test goodwill to determine if impairment has occurred, either through a quantitative or qualitative analysis. Additionally, interim reviews must be performed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. If the testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, we are required to record a non-cash impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value of the goodwill and the implied fair value of the goodwill in the period the determination is made. The annual goodwill impairment analysis, which was performed qualitatively in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, considered all relevant factors specific to our reporting units, including macroeconomic conditions; industry and market considerations; overall financial performance and relevant entity-specific events. Changes in these factors, or changes in actual performance could affect the fair value of goodwill, which may result in an impairment charge. For example, deterioration in worldwide economic conditions could affect these assumptions and lead us to determine that goodwill impairment is required. We cannot accurately predict the amount or timing of any impairment of assets. We considered the above factors noting none involved significant uncertainty. In addition, the industry in which we operate improved over the observable period, and our calculated fair value exceeded carrying value for each reporting unit by a substantial amount in our previous quantitative analysis, indicating no material risk as of July 31, 2018, with respect to potential goodwill impairments. Should the value of our goodwill become impaired, it could. 23. have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and could result in our incurring net losses in future periods.. Changes in federal, state and local, or foreign tax laws, changing interpretations of existing tax laws, or adverse determinations by tax authorities could increase our tax burden or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.. We are subject to taxation at the federal, state, provincial, and local levels in the United States, the United Kingdom, and various other countries and jurisdictions in which we operate, including income taxes, sales taxes, value-added (VAT) taxes, and similar taxes and assessments. The laws and regulations related to tax matters are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. Although we believe our tax positions are reasonable, we are subject to audit by the Internal Revenue Service in the United States, HM Revenue and Customs in the United Kingdom, state tax authorities in the states in which we operate, and other similar tax authorities in international jurisdictions. As previously disclosed, we have been subject to challenge by the Georgia Department of Revenue with respect to sales taxes and could face similar audits or challenges from applicable federal, state, or foreign tax authorities in the future. While we believe we comply with all applicable tax laws, rules, and regulations in the relevant jurisdictions, tax authorities may elect to audit us and determine that we owe additional taxes, which could result in a significant increase in our liabilities for taxes, interest, and penalties in excess of our accrued liabilities.. New tax legislative initiatives may be proposed from time to time, such as proposals for comprehensive tax reform in the United States, which may impact our effective tax rate and which could adversely affect our tax positions or tax liabilities. Our future effective tax rate could be adversely affected by, among other things, changes in the composition of earnings in jurisdictions with differing tax rates, changes in statutory rates and other legislative changes, changes in interpretations of existing tax laws, or changes in determinations regarding the jurisdictions in which we are subject to tax. From time to time, U.S. federal, state and local, and foreign governments make substantive changes to tax rules and their application, which could result in materially higher taxes than would be incurred under existing tax law and which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"Tax Reform\" or \"Tax Act\") was enacted on December 22, 2017. The Tax Act significantly revamped U.S. taxation of corporations, including a reduction of the federal income tax rate from 35% to 21%, a repeal of the exceptions to the $1.0 million deduction limitation for performance-based compensation to covered employees, and a new tax regime for foreign earnings. The repeal of the $1.0 million deduction limit for performance-based compensation, the new U.S. taxes on accumulated and future foreign earnings and other adverse changes resulting from the Tax Act, or a change in the mix of domestic and foreign earnings, might offset the benefit from the reduced tax rate, and our future effective tax rates and/or cash taxes may increase, even significantly, or not decrease much, compared to recent or historical trends. Many of the provisions of the Tax Act are highly complex and may be subject to further interpretive guidance from the IRS or others. Some of the provisions of the Tax Act may be changed by a future Congress or challenged by the World Trade Organization (\"WTO\"). Although we cannot predict the nature or outcome of such future interpretive guidance, or actions by a future Congress or WTO, they could adversely impact our consolidated results of operations and financial position. Income tax expense on accumulated foreign earnings recorded as a result of the Tax Act is a provisional amount and reflects our current best estimate, which may be adjusted over the course of the next year and could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and financial position.. New accounting pronouncements or new interpretations of existing standards could require us to make adjustments to accounting policies that could adversely affect the consolidated financial statements.. The Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and the SEC, from time to time issue new pronouncements or new interpretations of existing accounting standards that require changes to our accounting policies and procedures. To date, we do not believe any new pronouncements or interpretations have had a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial position, but future pronouncements or interpretations could require a change or changes in our policies or procedures.. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in declines in our reported revenues and earnings.. Our reported revenues and earnings are subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We do not engage in foreign currency hedging arrangements; consequently, foreign currency fluctuations may adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Should we choose to engage in hedging activities in the future we cannot be assured our hedges will be effective or that the costs of the hedges will exceed their benefits. Fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies, primarily the British pound, Canadian dollar, Brazilian real, European Union euro, U.A.E. dirham, Omani rial, and Bahraini dinar could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and financial position.. 24. On June 23, 2016, the U.K. held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the European Union, commonly referred to as \"Brexit.\" In February 2017, the British Parliament voted in favor of allowing the British government to begin negotiating the terms of the U.K.'s withdrawal from the European Union and discussions with the European Union began in March 2017. Adverse consequences concerning Brexit or the European Union could include deterioration in global economic conditions, instability in global financial markets, political uncertainty, volatility in currency exchange rates, or adverse changes in the cross-border agreements currently in place, any of which could have an adverse impact on our financial results in the future."
