[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our forward-looking statements are based on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable but that may not prove to be accurate. All of our forward-looking information is, therefore, subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expected. All known, material risks and uncertainties are discussed below.. Downturns in the oil and gas industry, or in the oilfield services business, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. The oil and gas industry is highly cyclical and demand for the majority of our oilfield services and products is substantially dependent on the level of expenditures by the oil and gas industry for the exploration, development and production of crude oil and natural gas reserves, which are sensitive to oil and natural gas prices and generally dependent on the industry's view of future oil and gas prices. There are numerous factors affecting the supply of and demand for our services and products, which are summarized as:. <U+25AA> general and economic business conditions;. <U+25AA> market prices of oil and gas and expectations about future prices;. <U+25AA> cost of producing and the ability to deliver oil and natural gas;. <U+25AA> the level of drilling and production activity;. <U+25AA> mergers, consolidations and downsizing among our clients;. <U+25AA> coordination by OPEC;. <U+25AA> the impact of commodity prices on the expenditure levels of our clients;. <U+25AA> financial condition of our client base and their ability to fund capital expenditures;. 9. <U+25AA> the physical effects of climatic change, including adverse weather, such as increased frequency or severity of storms, such as hurricanes, droughts and floods, or geologic/geophysical conditions;. <U+25AA> the adoption of legal requirements or taxation, including, for example, a carbon tax, relating to climate change that lowers the demand for petroleum-based fuels;. <U+25AA> civil unrest or political uncertainty in oil producing or consuming countries;. <U+25AA> level of consumption of oil, gas and petrochemicals by consumers;. <U+25AA> changes in existing laws, regulations, or other governmental actions, including temporary or permanent moratoria on hydraulic fracturing or offshore drilling, the issuance of NTLs that eliminate or significantly reduce the ability of offshore operators to self-insure their supplemental bonding obligations, or shareholder activism or governmental rulemakings or agreements to restrict GHG emissions, which developments could have an adverse impact on the oil and gas industry and/or demand for our services;. <U+25AA> stockholder activism or activities by non-governmental organizations to limit certain sources of funding for the energy sector or restrict the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas;. <U+25AA> the business opportunities (or lack thereof) that may be presented to and pursued by us;. <U+25AA> availability of services and materials for our clients to grow their capital expenditures;. <U+25AA> ability of our clients to deliver product to market;. <U+25AA> availability of materials and equipment from key suppliers; and. <U+25AA> cyber-attacks on our network that disrupt operations or result in lost or compromised critical data.. The oil and gas industry has historically experienced periodic downturns, which have been characterized by diminished demand for our oilfield services and products and downward pressure on the prices we charge. A significant downturn in the oil and gas industry could result in a reduction in demand for oilfield services and could adversely affect our operating results.. Changes in macro-economic factors impacting the oil and gas industry may negatively affect our ability to accurately predict client demand, which could cause us to hold excess or obsolete inventory and experience a reduction in gross margins and financial results.. We cannot accurately predict which or what level of our services and products our clients will need in the future. Orders are placed with our suppliers based on forecasts of client demand and, in some instances, we may establish buffer inventories to accommodate anticipated demand. Our forecasts of client demand are based on multiple assumptions, each of which may introduce errors into the estimates. In addition, many of our suppliers require a longer lead time to provide products than our clients demand for delivery of our finished products. If we overestimate client demand, we may allocate resources to the purchase of materials or manufactured products that we may not be able to sell when we expect to, if at all. As a result, we could hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce gross margin and adversely affect financial results. Conversely, if we underestimate client demand or if insufficient manufacturing capacity is available, we could miss revenue opportunities and potentially lose market share and damage our client relationships. In addition, any future significant cancellations or deferrals of service contracts or product orders could materially and adversely affect profit margins, increase product obsolescence and restrict our ability to fund our operations.. We depend on the results of our international operations, which expose us to risks inherent in doing business abroad.. We conduct our business in over 50 countries; business performed outside of the United States accounted for 57%, 62% and 58% of our revenue during the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We attribute service revenue to the country in which the service was performed rather than where the reservoir or project is located while we attribute product sales revenue to the country where the product was shipped as we feel this gives a clearer view of our operations. We do, however, have significant levels of service revenue performed and recorded in the U.S. that are sourced from projects on non-U.S. oilfields.. Our operations, and those of our clients, are subject to the various laws, regulations and other legal requirements of those respective countries as well as various risks peculiar to each country, which may include, but are not limited to:. <U+25AA> global economic conditions;. <U+25AA> political actions and requirements of national governments including trade restrictions, embargoes, seizure, detention, nationalization and expropriations of assets;. 10. <U+25AA> interpretation of tax statutes and requirements of taxing authorities worldwide, routine examination by taxing authorities and assessment of additional taxes, penalties and/or interest;. <U+25AA> international agreements that restrict GHG emissions, such as the Paris Agreement that calls for such countries to set GHG emissions targets in their own countries and to be transparent in how such countries achieve those GHG emissions targets;. <U+25AA> civil unrest;. <U+25AA> acts of terrorism;. <U+25AA> fluctuations and changes in currency exchange rates (see section below);. <U+25AA> the impact of inflation;. <U+25AA> difficulty in repatriating foreign currency received in excess of the local currency requirements; and. <U+25AA> current conditions in oil producing countries such as Venezuela, Nigeria, Libya, Iran and Iraq considering their potential impact on the world markets.. Historically, economic downturns and political events have resulted in lower demand for our services and products in certain markets. The continuing instability in the Middle East and North Africa and the potential for activity from terrorist groups that the U.S. government has cautioned against have further heightened our exposure to international risks. The global economy is highly influenced by public confidence in the geopolitical environment and the situation in the Middle East and North Africa continues to be highly fluid; therefore, we expect to experience heightened international risks.. Our results of operations may be significantly affected by foreign currency exchange rate risk.. We are exposed to risks due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. By the nature of our business, we derive a substantial amount of our revenue from our international operations, subjecting us to risks relating to fluctuations in currency exchange rates.. Our results of operations may be adversely affected because our efforts to comply with applicable anti-corruption laws such as the United States' Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the \"FCPA\") and the United Kingdom's Anti-Bribery Act (the \"ABA\") could restrict our ability to do business in foreign markets relative to our competitors who are not subject to these laws.. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. We may be subject to competitive disadvantages to the extent that our competitors are able to secure business, licenses or other preferential treatment by making payments to government officials and others in positions of influence or through other methods that we are prohibited from using.. We are subject to the regulations imposed by the FCPA and the ABA, which generally prohibits us and our intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. In particular, we may be held liable for actions taken by our strategic or local partners even though our partners are not subject to these laws. Any such violations could result in substantial civil and/or criminal penalties and might adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, our ability to continue to work in these parts of the world discussed above could be adversely affected if we were found to have violated certain laws, including the FCPA and the ABA.. If we are not able to develop or acquire new products or our products become technologically obsolete, our results of operations may be adversely affected.. The market for our services and products is characterized by changing technology and product introduction. As a result, our success is dependent upon our ability to develop or acquire new services and products on a cost-effective basis and to introduce them into the marketplace in a timely manner. While we intend to continue committing substantial financial resources and effort to the development of new services and products, we may not be able to successfully differentiate our services and products from those of our competitors. Our clients may not consider our proposed services and products to be of value to them; or if the proposed services and products are of a competitive nature, our clients may not view them as superior to our competitors' services and products. In addition, we may not be able to adapt to evolving markets and technologies, develop new products, or achieve and maintain technological advantages.. 11. If we are unable to continue developing competitive products in a timely manner in response to changes in technology, our businesses and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, continuing development of new products inherently carries the risk of inventory obsolescence with respect to our older products.. We are subject to the risk of supplier concentration.. Certain of our product lines depend on a limited number of third party suppliers and vendors available in the marketplace. As a result of this concentration in some of our supply chains, our business and operations could be negatively affected if our key suppliers were to experience significant disruptions affecting the price, quality, availability or timely delivery of their products. For example, we have a limited number of vendors for our manufactured product lines. The partial or complete loss of any one of our key suppliers, or a significant adverse change in the relationship with any of these suppliers, through consolidation or otherwise, would limit our ability to manufacture and sell certain of our products.. If we are unable to obtain patents, licenses and other intellectual property rights covering our services and products, our operating results may be adversely affected.. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, licenses and other intellectual property rights covering our services and products. To that end, we have obtained certain patents and intend to continue to seek patents on some of our inventions, services and products. While we have patented some of our key technologies, we do not patent all of our proprietary technology, even when regarded as patentable. The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive. There can be no assurance that patents will be issued from currently pending or future applications or that, if patents are issued, they will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. In addition, effective copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain countries. Litigation, which could demand significant financial and management resources, may be necessary to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights. Also, there can be no assurance that we can obtain licenses or other rights to necessary intellectual property on acceptable terms.. There are risks relating to our acquisition strategy. If we are unable to successfully integrate and manage businesses that we have acquired and any businesses acquired in the future, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. One of our key business strategies is to acquire technologies, operations and assets that are complementary to our existing businesses. There are financial, operational and legal risks inherent in any acquisition strategy, including:. <U+25AA> increased financial leverage;. <U+25AA> ability to obtain additional financing;. <U+25AA> increased interest expense; and. <U+25AA> difficulties involved in combining disparate company cultures and facilities.. The success of any completed acquisition will depend on our ability to effectively integrate the acquired business into our existing operations. The process of integrating acquired businesses may involve unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of our managerial and financial resources. In addition, possible future acquisitions may be larger and for purchase prices significantly higher than those paid for earlier acquisitions. No assurance can be given that we will be able to continue to identify additional suitable acquisition opportunities, negotiate acceptable terms, obtain financing for acquisitions on acceptable terms or successfully acquire identified targets. Our failure to achieve consolidation savings, to incorporate the acquired businesses and assets into our existing operations successfully or to minimize any unforeseen operational difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation.. We are subject to a variety of environmental and occupational safety and health laws and regulations, which may result in increased costs and significant liability to our business.. We are subject to a variety of stringent governmental laws and regulations both in the United States and foreign countries relating to protection of the environment, occupational health and safety and the use and storage of chemicals and gases used in our analytical and manufacturing processes and the discharge and disposal of wastes generated by those processes. Certain of these laws and regulations may impose joint and several, strict liability for environmental liabilities, such as the remediation of historical contamination or recent spills, and failure to comply with such laws and regulations could result in the assessment of damages, fines and penalties, the imposition of remedial or corrective action obligations, the occurrence of delays in permitting. 12. or development of projects, or the suspension or cessation of some or all of our operations. These stringent laws and regulations could require us to acquire permits or other authorizations to conduct regulated activities, install and maintain costly equipment and pollution control technologies, impose specific safety and health standards addressing work protection, or to incur costs or liabilities to mitigate or remediate pollution conditions caused by our operations or attributable to former owners or operators. If we fail to control the use, or adequately restrict the emission or discharge, of hazardous substances or wastes, we could be subject to future material liabilities including remedial obligations. In addition, public interest in the protection of the environment has increased dramatically in recent years with governmental authorities imposing more stringent and restrictive legal requirements. We anticipate that the trend of more expansive and stricter environmental laws and regulations will continue, the occurrence of which may require us to increase our capital expenditures or could result in increased operating expenses. For example, in October 2015, the EPA issued a rule under the CAA lowering the NAAQS for ground-level ozone to 70 parts per billion. The EPA published a final rule in November 2017 that issued area designations with respect to ground-level ozone for approximately 85% of the U.S. counties as either \"attainment/unclassifiable\" or \"unclassifiable\" and is expected to issue non-attainment designations for the remaining areas of the U.S. not addressed under the November 2017 final rule in the first half of 2018. States are also expected to implement their own rules, which could be more stringent than federal requirements.. Due to concern over the risk of climate change, there has been a broad range of proposed or promulgated state, national and international laws focusing on GHG reduction. Regulatory frameworks adopted, or being considered for adoption, to reduce GHG emissions include cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, restrictive permitting, increased efficiency standards, and incentives or mandates for renewable energy. For example, the European Emissions Trading Scheme is a program through which many of the European Union member states are implementing cap and trade controls covering numerous power stations and industrial facilities. Also, in December 2015, the United States joined other countries of the United Nations in preparing the Paris Agreement that requires member countries to develop reductions in GHG emissions. The Paris Agreement was signed by the United States in April 2016 and entered into force in November 2016; however, this agreement does not create any binding obligations for nations to limit their GHG emissions, but includes pledges to voluntarily limit or reduce future emissions. In August 2017, the U.S. State Department officially informed the United Nations of the intent of the United States to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. The Paris Agreement provides for a four-year exit process beginning when it took effect in November 2016, which would results in an effective exit date of November 2020. The United States' adherence to the exit process and/or the terms on which the United States may re-enter the Paris Agreement or a separately negotiated agreement are unclear at this time. These proposed or promulgated laws and legal initiatives apply or could apply in countries where we have interests or may have interests in the future. These requirements could make our services and products more expensive, lengthen project implementation times, and reduce demand for the production of oil and natural gas, which could decrease demand for our services and products. In the United States, a number of state and regional efforts have emerged that are aimed at tracking or reducing emissions of GHGs and the U.S. Congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs but no such legislation has yet been adopted. However, the EPA has determined that emissions of GHGs present a danger to public health and the environment and, based on these findings, has adopted regulations under existing provisions of the CAA that establish construction and operating permit reviews for GHG emissions from certain large stationary sources that are already potential major sources of criteria pollutant emissions and that require the monitoring and annual reporting of GHG emissions from specified onshore and offshore production sources in the United States, which include the operations of many of our exploration and production clients. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions in the United State would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations that require reporting of GHGs or otherwise limit emissions of GHGs from our clients' operations could require our clients to incur increased costs and also could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas that they produce, which could decrease demand for our services and products.. Hydraulic fracturing is a process used by oil and gas exploration and production operators in the completion of certain oil and gas wells whereby water, sand or other proppants and chemical additives are injected under pressure into subsurface formations to stimulate gas and, to a lesser extent, oil production. Some countries outside the United States, such as Bulgaria, the Czech Republic and France, currently have imposed moratoria on hydraulic fracturing while other countries, such as the United Kingdom, allow fracturing activities but those activities are not as widely pursued as they are in the United States. In the United States, the fracturing process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions, but several federal agencies have asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. For example the EPA published an effluent limit guideline final rule in June 2016 prohibiting the discharge of wastewater from onshore unconventional oil and natural gas extraction facilities to publicly owned wastewater treatment plants and published a final rule in June 2016 establishing first-time standards to address emissions of methane from hydraulically-fractured oil and natural gas well completions. Additionally, the BLM published a final rule in March 2015 that established new or more stringent standards relating to hydraulic fracturing on federal and American Indian lands, which rule was struck down by a federal judge in June 2016. The BLM appealed the decision to the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in July 2016, the appellate court issued a ruling in September 2017 to vacate the Wyoming trial court decision and dismiss the lawsuit challenging the 2015 rule in response to the BLM's issuance of a proposed rulemaking to. 13. rescind the 2015 rule and, in December 2017, the BLM published a final rule rescinding the March 2015 rule. In January 2018, a legal challenge to the BLM's rescission of the 2015 rule was filed in federal court.  Also, in December 2016, the EPA released its final report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources, concluding that water cycle activities associated with hydraulic fracturing may impact drinking water resources under certain circumstances. In addition, the U.S. Congress has from time to time considered the adoption of legislation to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing. At the state level, a number of states have adopted, and other states are considering, legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. States could elect to prohibit fracturing altogether, following the approach taken by the State of New York. In addition, local governments may seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular. If new or more stringent federal, state or local legal restrictions related to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where our exploration and production clients' operate, those clients could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements and experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities, which could reduce demand for our products and services.. We may be unable to attract and retain skilled and technically knowledgeable employees, which could adversely affect our business.. Our success depends upon attracting and retaining highly skilled professionals and other technical personnel. A number of our employees are highly skilled engineers, geologists and highly trained technicians, and our failure to continue to attract and retain such individuals could adversely affect our ability to compete in the oilfield services industry. We may confront significant and potentially adverse competition for these skilled and technically knowledgeable personnel, particularly during periods of increased demand for oil and gas. Additionally, at times there may be a shortage of skilled and technical personnel available in the market, potentially compounding the difficulty of attracting and retaining these employees. As a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected.. We require a significant amount of cash to service our indebtedness, make capital expenditures, fund our working capital requirements and pay our dividend, and our ability to generate cash may depend on factors beyond our control.. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, to fund planned capital expenditures, and pay our dividend depends, in part, on our ability to generate cash in the future. This ability is, to a certain extent, subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control.. No assurance can be given that we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to service and repay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our indebtedness, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. We cannot assure that any refinancing or debt restructuring would be possible or, if possible, would be completed on favorable or acceptable terms, that any assets could be sold or that, if sold, the timing of the sales and the amount of proceeds realized from those sales would be favorable to us or that additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our ability to refinance our indebtedness, including our ability to borrow under our existing revolving credit facility (\"Credit Facility\"). Banks that are party to our existing Credit Facility may not be able to meet their funding commitments to us if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from us and other borrowers within a short period of time.. Because we are a Netherlands company, it may be difficult for you to take legal action against our supervisory directors or us and it may not be possible to obtain or enforce judgments against us.. Although we are a Netherlands company, our assets are located in a variety of countries. In addition, not all members of our supervisory board of directors are residents of the same countries as other supervisory directors. As a result, it may not be possible for you to effect service of process within certain countries upon our supervisory directors, or to enforce against our supervisory directors or use judgments of courts of certain countries predicated upon civil liabilities under a country's federal securities laws. Because there is no treaty between certain countries and the Netherlands providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments, some countries' judgments are not automatically enforceable in the Netherlands or in the United States, where the principal market for our shares is located. In addition, there is doubt as to whether a court in one country would impose civil liability on us or on the members of our supervisory board of directors in an original action brought against us or our supervisory directors in a court of competent jurisdiction in another country and predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of that other country.. 14. Our operations are subject to the risk of cyber-attacks that could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition.. Our information technology systems are subject to possible breaches and other threats that could cause us harm. If our systems for protecting against cyber security risks prove not to be sufficient, we could be adversely affected by loss or damage of intellectual property, proprietary information, or client data, interruption of business operations, or additional costs to prevent, respond to, or mitigate cyber security attacks. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition.. Regulations related to conflict-free minerals could limit the supply and/or increase the cost of certain metals used in our manufacturing processes.. In 2012, the SEC issued their final rule to implement Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act regarding mandatory disclosure and reporting requirements by public companies of their use of \"conflict minerals\" (tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold) and whether these minerals originate in the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries (\"conflict area\"). As our suppliers determine the original source of the conflict minerals they sell or use in their manufacturing processes, we may find that sourcing of these conflict minerals from areas outside the conflict area (conflict-free) at competitive prices and availability in sufficient quantities could be affected. If the number of suppliers who provide conflict-free minerals is limited, this could have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to purchase these conflict-free products or to purchase these conflict-free products at a favorable price or on favorable terms in the future."
