[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. Please see Item 1. \"Business - Forward Looking Statements\" for a discussion of the forward-looking statements that are qualified by these risk factors. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occurs, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. Unfavorable conditions in our industry or the global economy, or reductions in information technology spending, could limit our ability to grow our business and negatively affect our operating results.. Our operating results may vary based on the impact of changes in our industry or the global economy on us or our clients. The revenue growth and potential profitability of our business depends on demand for enterprise application software and services generally and for human capital management platform in particular. We sell our human capital management platform primarily to large, mid-sized and small business organizations whose businesses fluctuate based on general economic and business conditions. In addition, a portion of our revenue is attributable to the number of users of our products at each of our clients, which in turn is influenced by the employment and hiring patterns of our clients and potential clients. To the extent that economic uncertainty or weak economic conditions cause our clients and potential clients to freeze or reduce their headcount, demand for our products may be negatively affected. Historically, economic downturns have resulted in overall reductions in spending on information technology and human capital management platforms as well as pressure from clients and potential clients for extended billing terms. If economic conditions deteriorate, our clients and potential clients may elect to decrease their information technology and human capital management budgets by deferring or reconsidering product purchases, which would limit our ability to grow our business and negatively affect our operating results.. Our financial results may fluctuate due to our long, variable and, therefore, unpredictable sales cycle and our focus on large and mid-market organizations.. We plan our expenses based on certain assumptions about the length and variability of our sales cycle. If our sales cycle becomes longer or more variable, our results may be adversely affected. Our sales cycle generally varies in duration from two to nine months and, in some cases, much longer depending on the size of the potential client. Factors that may influence the length and variability of our sales cycle include among others:. • the need to educate potential clients about the uses and benefits of our products;. • the relatively long duration of the commitment clients make in their agreements with us;. • the discretionary nature of potential clients' purchasing and budget cycles and decisions;. • the competitive nature of potential clients' evaluation and purchasing processes;. • the lengthy purchasing approval processes of potential clients;. • the evolving functionality demands of potential clients;. • fluctuations in the human capital management needs of potential clients; and. • announcements or planned introductions of new products by us or our competitors.. The fluctuations that result from the length and variability of our sales cycle may be magnified by our focus on sales to large and mid-sized organizations. If we are unable to close an expected significant transaction with one or more of these companies in a particular period, or if an expected transaction is delayed until a subsequent period, our operating results, and in particular our billings, for that period, and for any future periods in which revenue from such transaction would otherwise have been recognized, may be adversely affected.. Our financial results may fluctuate due to various business factors, some of which may be beyond our control.. There are a number of other factors that may cause our financial results to fluctuate from period to period, including among others:. • changes in billing cycles and the size of advance payments relative to overall contract value in client agreements;. • the extent to which new clients are attracted to our products to satisfy their human capital management needs;. • the timing and rate at which we sign agreements with new clients;. • our access to service providers and partners when we outsource client service projects and our ability to manage the quality and completion of the related client implementations;. • the timing and duration of our client implementations, which is often outside of our direct control;. 15. • our ability to provide, or partner with effective partners to provide, resources for client implementations and consulting projects;. • the extent to which we retain existing clients and satisfy their requirements;. • the extent to which existing clients renew their subscriptions to our products and the timing of those renewals;. • the extent to which existing clients purchase or discontinue the use of additional products and add or decrease the number of users;. • the extent to which our clients request enhancements to underlying features and functionality of our products and the timing of our delivery of these enhancements to our clients;. • the addition or loss of large clients, including through acquisitions or consolidations;. • the number and size of new clients, as well as the number and size of renewal clients in a particular period;. • the mix of clients among small, mid-sized and large organizations;. • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors;. • seasonal factors affecting demand for our products or potential clients' purchasing decisions;. • the financial condition and creditworthiness of our clients;. • the amount and timing of our operating expenses, including those related to the maintenance, expansion and restructuring of our business, operations and infrastructure;. • changes in the operational efficiency of our business;. • the timing and success of our new product and service introductions;. • the timing of expenses of the development of new products and technologies, including enhancements to our products;. • our ability to exploit Big Data to drive increased demand for our products;. • continued strong demand for human capital management in the U.S. and globally;. • our ability to successfully integrate our operations with those of recently acquired privately-held companies;. • the success of current and new competitive products and services by our competitors;. • other changes in the competitive dynamics of our industry, including consolidation among competitors, clients or strategic partners;. • our ability to manage our existing business and future growth, including in terms of additional headcount, additional clients, incremental users and new geographic regions;. • expenses related to our network and data centers and the expansion of such networks and data centers;. • the effects of, and expenses associated with, acquisitions of third-party technologies or businesses and any potential future charges for impairment of goodwill resulting from those acquisitions;. • equity issuances, including as consideration in acquisitions or due to the conversion of our outstanding convertible notes due 2021 and 2018;. • business disruptions, costs and future events related to shareholder activism;. • legal or political changes in local or foreign jurisdictions that decrease demand for, or restrict our ability to sell or provide, our products;. • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including any fluctuation caused by uncertainties relating to Brexit;. • general economic, industry and market conditions; and. • various factors related to disruptions in our SaaS hosting network infrastructure, defects in our products, privacy and data security and exchange rate fluctuations, each of which is described elsewhere in these risk factors.. In light of the foregoing factors, we believe that our financial results, including our revenue and deferred revenue levels, may vary significantly from period-to-period. As a result, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful and should not be relied on as an indication of future performance.. 16. The market in which we participate is intensely competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our operating results could be harmed.. The market for human capital management software is highly competitive, rapidly evolving and fragmented. Many of our competitors and potential competitors are larger and have greater brand name recognition, much longer operating histories, larger marketing budgets and significantly greater resources than we do. In addition, with the introduction of new technologies and market entrants, we expect competition to intensify in the future. If we fail to compete effectively, our business will be harmed. Some of our principal competitors offer their products or services at a lower price, which has resulted in pricing pressures. Similarly, some competitors offer different billing terms, which has resulted in pressures on our billing terms. If we are unable to maintain our pricing levels and billing terms, our operating results could be negatively impacted. In addition, pricing pressures and increased competition generally could result in reduced sales, reduced margins, losses or the failure of our products to achieve or maintain more widespread market acceptance, any of which could harm our business.. We face competition from paper-based processes and desktop software tools. We also face competition from custom-built software that is designed to support the needs of a single organization, as well as from third-party talent and human resource application providers. These software vendors include, without limitation, Halogen Software, Inc., International Business Machines Corporation, Oracle Corporation, Peoplefluent, Inc., Saba Software, Inc., SAP America, Inc., Skillsoft Corp., Talentsoft and Workday, Inc. In addition, some of the parties with which we maintain business alliances offer or may offer products or services that compete with our products or services.. Many of our competitors are able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services. In addition, many of our competitors have established marketing relationships, access to larger client bases and major distribution agreements with consultants, system integrators and distributors. Moreover, many software vendors can bundle human resource products or offer such products at a lower price as part of a larger product sale. In addition, some competitors may offer software that addresses one or a limited number of human capital management functions at a lower price point or with greater depth than our products. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or client requirements. Further, some potential clients, particularly large enterprises, may elect to develop their own internal products. For all of these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors.. Existing or future laws and regulations relating to privacy or data security could increase the cost of our products and subject us or our clients to litigation, regulatory investigations and other potential liabilities.. Our human capital management platform enables our clients to collect, manage and store a wide range of data related to every phase of the employee performance and management cycle. The United States and various state governments have adopted or proposed limitations on the collection, distribution and use of personal information. Several foreign jurisdictions, including the European Union (\"EU\"), and the United Kingdom, Korea, Japan, Singapore, Australia and India, have adopted legislation (including directives or regulations) that increase or change the requirements governing data collection and storage in these jurisdictions. These laws and regulations are complex and change frequently, at times due to differing economic conditions and changes in political climate, with new laws and regulations proposed frequently and existing laws and regulations subject to different and conflicting interpretations. Such changes have the potential to increase costs of compliance, risks of noncompliance and penalties for noncompliance. For example, we maintain a major support center in Tel Aviv, Israel. Israel presently is recognized by the EU as providing an \"adequate\" level of protection for personal data, causing transfers of personal data to be permitted under EU data protection law, but if EU authorities were to determine that Israel no longer provided an \"adequate\" level of data protection, our business could be harmed. As an additional example, the EU adopted a general data protection regulation, effective in May 2018, that will supersede current EU data protection legislation, impose more stringent EU data protection requirements and provide for greater penalties for noncompliance. Further, following a referendum on June 23, 2016 on the United Kingdom's membership in the EU, the outcome of which was a vote in favor of leaving the EU, it is expected that the United Kingdom government will shortly commence negotiations in connection with any exit from the EU (often referred to as \"Brexit\"). The outcome of the referendum has created uncertainty with regard to the regulation of data protection in the United Kingdom. In particular, it is unclear whether the United Kingdom will enact the general data protection regulation and how data transfers to and from the United Kingdom will be regulated. We maintain a data center in the United Kingdom where EU residents' personal data is stored and processed, causing uncertainty with respect to the regulation of data protection in the United Kingdom to create uncertainty among some of our customers in Europe. We are in the process of building data centers in other EU locations that we anticipate will be functional in 2018, but until such data centers are operational and available to be used by our European customers, we may experience reluctance or refusal by our customers in Europe to use our products. Additionally, any delays in completing the data centers or impediments to beginning operations may harm our customer retention and billings in Europe.. 17. We sell our products and operate in many countries. Some of these countries are considering or have passed legislation implementing data protection or privacy requirements that could increase the cost and complexity of selling or delivering our solutions. In addition, changes in the political climate in the United States or other countries may decrease demand for our solutions or make them less competitive to preferred local offerings.. If our privacy or data security measures fail to comply with current or future laws and regulations, we may be subject to litigation, regulatory investigations or other liabilities, as well as negative publicity and a loss of business. Any of these matters could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operational results. Moreover, if future laws and regulations limit our clients' ability to use and share employee data or our ability to store, process and share data with our clients over the Internet, demand for our products could decrease, our costs could increase and our operating results and financial condition could be harmed.. In particular, with regard to transfers of personal data, as such term is used in the EU, we historically relied upon adherence to the U.S. Department of Commerce's Safe Harbor Privacy Principles and compliance with the U.S.-EU and U.S.-Swiss Safe Harbor Frameworks. The U.S.-EU Safe Harbor Framework, which, together with the U.S.-Swiss Safe Harbor Framework, established the means for legitimizing the transfer of personal data by U.S. companies from the European Economic Area, or EEA, to the U.S., was invalidated in October 2015 by a decision of the European Court of Justice, or the ECJ Ruling. As a result of the ECJ Ruling, the Swiss data protection regulator has questioned the status of the U.S.-Swiss Safe Harbor Framework. In light of these events, we subsequently have self-certified under the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield, a replacement for the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor Framework. The EU-U.S. Privacy Shield has been challenged by private parties and may face additional challenges by national regulators or additional private parties. We may be unsuccessful in maintaining legitimate means for our transfer of personal data from the EEA, or otherwise responding to the ECJ Ruling, and we may experience reluctance or refusal by current or prospective European customers to use our products. Our response to the ECJ Ruling and any other events with respect to the legal landscape surrounding cross-border transfer of EU residents' personal data may cause us to assume additional liabilities or incur additional expenses for implementing compliance requirements, and any such other events, as well as our response, could adversely affect our billings and lead to regulatory investigations or enforcement actions. The foregoing could have a materially adverse impact upon our business, financial condition and operational results.. Mergers of or other strategic transactions by our competitors could weaken our competitive position or reduce our revenue.. If one or more of our competitors were to merge, acquire or partner with another of our competitors, the change in the competitive landscape could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. For example, in February 2012, SAP America, Inc. acquired SuccessFactors, Inc.; in April 2012, Oracle Corporation acquired Taleo Corporation; in August 2012, International Business Machines Corporation acquired Kenexa, Inc.; in October 2014, Skillsoft Corp. acquired SumTotal Systems, Inc.; and in May 2017, Saba Software, Inc. acquired Halogen Software, Inc. Our competitors may also establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with our current or future strategic distributors, systems integrators, HR outsourcers, payroll services companies, third-party consulting firms or other parties with whom we have relationships, thereby limiting our ability to promote our products and limiting the number of consultants available to implement our products. Disruptions in our business caused by these events could reduce our revenue.. Our business and operations are experiencing growth and organizational change. If we fail to effectively manage such growth and change in a manner that preserves the key aspects of our corporate culture, our business and operating results could be harmed.. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, rapid growth and organizational change, which has placed, and may continue to place, significant demands on our management, operational and financial resources. For example, our headcount has grown from 1,823 employees on December 31, 2016 to 1,891 employees on December 31, 2017. In addition, we have several international offices, including in Australia, Brazil, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Israel, Japan, Netherlands, New Zealand, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom. We may continue to expand our international operations into other countries in the future, either organically or through acquisitions. We have also experienced significant growth in the number of users, transactions and data that our SaaS hosting infrastructure supports. Finally, our organizational structure is becoming more complex as we improve our operational, financial and management controls as well as our reporting systems and procedures. We will require significant capital expenditures and the allocation of valuable management resources to grow and change in these areas without undermining our corporate culture of rapid innovation, teamwork and attention to client success that has been central to our growth so far. If we fail to manage our anticipated growth and change in a manner that preserves the key aspects of our corporate culture, the quality of our products may suffer, which could negatively affect our brand and reputation and harm our ability to retain and attract clients.. 18. For a detailed discussion of the risks related to our ability to expand our business internationally, manage growth in our SaaS hosting network infrastructure and expand parts of our organization to implement improved operational, financial and management controls and reporting systems, see the risk factors titled \" - As a public company, we are obligated to maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting. If our internal control over financial reporting is ineffective, our financial reporting may not be accurate, complete and timely and our auditors may be unable to attest to its effectiveness when required, thus adversely affecting investor confidence in our company.\" and \" - We currently have a number of international offices and are expanding our international operations. Additionally, we do not have substantial experience in all international markets and may not achieve the results that we expect.\". Fluctuations in the exchange rate of foreign currencies could result in foreign currency gains and losses.. We currently have foreign sales denominated in Australian Dollars, Brazilian Reals, Canadian Dollars, Chinese Yuan, Euros, British Pounds, Hong Kong Dollars, Indian Rupees, Japanese Yen, Mexican Pesos, New Zealand Dollars, Singapore Dollars, South African Rand, Swedish Krona and Swiss Franc and may in the future have sales denominated in the currencies of additional countries. In addition, we incur a portion of our operating expenses in British Pounds and Euros and, to a much lesser extent, in Australian Dollars, Brazilian Reals, Canadian Dollars, Chinese Yuan, Hong Kong Dollars, Indian Rupees, Israeli New Shekels, Japanese Yen, Mexican Pesos, New Zealand Dollars, Singapore Dollars and Swedish Krona. Further, our overseas subsidiaries' results are also impacted by exchange rates affecting the carrying value of U.S. Dollar denominated intercompany loans with us. Fluctuations in the exchange rates of these foreign currencies, including any fluctuations caused by uncertainties relating to Brexit, may negatively impact our business, financial condition and operating results. Due to our legal structure, any fluctuations in the exchange rates of the British Pound may be particularly impactful. We have not previously engaged in foreign currency hedging. If we decide to hedge our foreign currency exposure, we may not be able to completely eliminate the impact of fluctuations in the exchange rates.. We may acquire other companies or technologies, which could divert our management's attention, result in additional dilution to our stockholders or otherwise disrupt our operations and harm our operating results.. In April 2012, we acquired Sonar Limited, a SaaS talent management solution provider serving small businesses, and in November 2014, we acquired Evolv Inc., a machine learning and data science platform provider. In the future, we may seek to acquire or invest in other businesses, products or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our existing platform, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth opportunities. The pursuit of potential acquisitions may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur various expenses in identifying, investigating and pursuing suitable acquisitions, whether or not they are ultimately consummated.. Other than our acquisitions of Sonar Limited and Evolv Inc., we do not have any experience in acquiring other businesses. We may not be able to successfully integrate the personnel, operations and technologies of any businesses that we have acquired or may acquire in the future or effectively manage the combined business following the acquisition. We may also not achieve the anticipated benefits from other acquired businesses due to a number of factors, including:. • unanticipated costs or liabilities associated with the acquisition;. • incurrence of acquisition-related costs;. • diversion of management's attention from other business concerns;. • harm to our existing relationships with distributors and clients as a result of the acquisition;. • the potential loss of key employees;. • exposure to claims and disputes by third parties, including intellectual property claims and disputes;. • the use of resources that are needed in other parts of our business; and. • the use of substantial portions of our available cash to consummate the acquisition.. In addition, a significant portion of the purchase price of companies we acquire may be allocated to acquired goodwill, which must be assessed for impairment at least annually, or to intangible assets, which are assessed for impairment upon certain triggering events. In the future, if our acquisitions do not yield expected returns, we may be required to take charges to our operating results based on this impairment assessment process, which could harm our operating results.. Acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, which could adversely affect our operating results. For example, in our acquisition of Sonar Limited, we issued an aggregate of 46,694 shares of our common stock. In addition, if an acquired business fails to meet our expectations, our operating results, business and financial condition may suffer.. 19. As a public company, we are obligated to maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting. If our internal control over financial reporting is ineffective, our financial reporting may not be accurate, complete and timely and our auditors may be unable to attest to its effectiveness when required, thus adversely affecting investor confidence in our company.. We are required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our auditors also need to audit the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. These assessments need to include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting.. We have incurred and continue to incur significant costs assessing our system of internal control over financial reporting and processing documentation necessary to perform the evaluation needed to comply with Section 404. We may discover, and may not be able to remediate, future significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, or we may be unable to complete our evaluation, testing or any required remediation in a timely fashion. Failure of our internal control over financial reporting to be effective could cause our financial reporting to be inaccurate, incomplete or delayed. Moreover, even if there is no inaccuracy, incompletion or delay of reporting results, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert, and our auditors will be unable to affirm, that our internal control is effective, in which case investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock.. Our systems collect, access, use and store personal and other client proprietary information. As a result, we are subject to security risks and are required to invest significant resources to prevent or correct problems caused by security breaches. If a security breach occurs, our reputation could be harmed, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability.. Our human capital management platform involves the storage and transmission of clients' sensitive, proprietary and confidential information over the Internet (including public networks), and security breaches, unauthorized access, unauthorized usage, viruses or similar breaches or disruptions could result in loss of this information, damage to our reputation, early termination of our contracts, litigation, regulatory investigations or other liabilities. In addition, errors in the storage or transmission of such information could compromise the security of that information. If our security measures are breached or are otherwise compromised as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to client data, our reputation will be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments could result in compromises or breaches of our security systems and the data stored in these systems. Because there is a time lag associated with developing adequate protections against such new developments and techniques, unauthorized access or sabotage of our systems and the information processed in connection with our business may result. If an actual or perceived security breach occurs, the market perception of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose sales and clients. Any violations of privacy or information security could result in the loss of business, litigation and regulatory investigations and penalties that could damage our reputation and adversely impact our operating results and financial condition, including our ability to make required reporting and disclosures as a public company. Moreover, if a high profile security breach occurs with respect to another SaaS provider, our clients and potential clients may lose trust in the security of the SaaS business model generally, which could adversely impact our ability to retain existing clients or attract new ones.. Any significant disruption in our SaaS hosting network infrastructure could harm our reputation, require us to provide credits or refunds, result in early terminations of client agreements or a loss of clients and adversely affect our business.. Our SaaS hosting network infrastructure is a critical part of our business operations. Our clients access our human capital management platform through a standard web browser and depend on us for fast and reliable access to our products. Our software is proprietary, and we currently rely on two third-party data center hosting facilities, which we lease, and the expertise of members of our engineering and software development teams for the continued performance of our platform. Recently, we began the process of migrating our platform from our leased data center hosting facilities to third-party data center hosting facilities operated by Amazon Web Services (\"AWS\"). After we complete this migration, we will rely extensively on AWS to provide our clients and their users with fast and reliable access to our products. Any disruption of or interference with our SaaS hosting network infrastructure, including the services and operations of AWS, could harm our reputation, business and results of operations. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, disruptions in our computing and communications infrastructure. Factors that may cause such disruptions that may harm our reputation include:. • human error;. • security breaches;. • telecommunications outages from third-party providers;. • computer viruses;. • acts of terrorism, sabotage or other intentional acts of vandalism, including cyber attacks;. 20. • unforeseen interruption or damages experienced in moving hardware to a new location;. • fire, earthquake, flood and other natural disasters; and. • power loss.. Although we generally back-up our client databases hourly, store our data in more than one geographically distinct location at least weekly and perform real-time mirroring of data to disaster recovery locations, we do not currently offer immediate access to disaster recovery locations in the event of a disaster or major outage. Thus, in the event of any of the factors described above, or certain other failures of our computing infrastructure, clients may not be able to access their data for 24 hours or more and there is a remote chance that client data from recent transactions may be permanently lost or otherwise compromised. In addition, we may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate for losses from a major interruption. Moreover, some of our agreements include performance guarantees and service level standards that obligate us to provide credits, refunds or termination rights in the event of a significant disruption in our SaaS hosting network infrastructure or other technical problems that relate to the functionality or design of our platform.. Certain of our operating results and financial metrics are difficult to predict as a result of seasonality.. We have historically experienced seasonality in terms of when we enter into client agreements for our products. We sign a significantly higher percentage of agreements with new clients, and renewal agreements with existing clients, in the fourth quarter of each year and a significant portion of these agreements are signed during the last month, and with respect to each quarter, often the last two weeks of the quarter. This seasonality is reflected to a much lesser extent, and sometimes is not immediately apparent, in our revenue, due to the fact that we generally recognize subscription revenue over the term of the client agreement, which is generally three years. We expect this seasonality to continue, which may cause fluctuations in certain of our operating results and financial metrics, and thus difficulties in predictability.. We rely on third-party computer hardware and software that may be difficult to replace or could cause errors or failures of our service.. In addition to the software we develop, we rely on computer hardware, purchased or leased, and software licensed from third parties in order to deliver our platform. This hardware and software may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Any loss of the right to use any of this hardware or software could result in delays in our ability to provide our platform until equivalent technology is either developed by us or, if available, identified, obtained and integrated. In addition, errors or defects in third-party hardware or software used in our platform could result in errors or a failure of our products, which could harm our business.. Defects in our platform could affect our reputation, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our products and related services.. Defects in our platform could adversely affect our reputation, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our products in the future. The costs incurred in correcting any product defects may be substantial and could adversely affect our operating results. Although we continually test our products for defects and work with clients through our client support organization to identify and correct errors, defects in our products are likely to occur in the future. Any defects that cause interruptions to the availability of our products could result in:. • lost or delayed market acceptance and sales of our products;. • early termination of client agreements or loss of clients;. • credits or refunds to clients;. • product liability suits against us;. • diversion of development resources;. • injury to our reputation; and. • increased maintenance and warranty costs.. While our client agreements typically contain limitations and disclaimers that purport to limit our liability for damages related to defects in our products, such limitations and disclaimers may not be enforced by a court or other tribunal or otherwise effectively protect us from such claims.. 21. If we fail to manage our SaaS hosting network infrastructure capacity, our existing clients may experience service outages and our new clients may experience delays in the deployment of our human capital management platform.. We have experienced significant growth in the number of users, transactions and data that our hosting infrastructure supports. We seek to maintain sufficient excess capacity in our SaaS hosting network infrastructure to meet the needs of all of our clients. We also seek to maintain excess capacity to facilitate the rapid provision of new client deployments and the expansion of existing client deployments. However, the provision of new hosting infrastructure requires significant lead time. If we do not accurately predict our infrastructure capacity requirements, our existing clients may experience service outages that may subject us to financial penalties, financial liabilities and client losses. If our hosting infrastructure capacity fails to keep pace with increased sales, clients may experience delays as we seek to obtain additional capacity, which could harm our reputation and adversely affect our revenue growth.. Our growth depends in part on the success of our strategic relationships with third parties.. We anticipate that we will continue to depend on various third-party relationships in order to grow our business. In addition to growing our indirect sales channels, we intend to pursue additional relationships with other third parties, such as technology and content providers and implementation consultants. Identifying, negotiating and documenting relationships with third parties require significant time and resources, as does integrating third-party content and technology. Our agreements with distributors and providers of technology, content and consulting services are typically non-exclusive and do not prohibit them from working with our competitors or from offering competing services. Our competitors may be effective in providing incentives to third parties to favor their products or services or to prevent or reduce subscriptions to our products. In addition, these distributors and providers may not perform as expected under our agreements, and we have had and may in the future have, disagreements or disputes with such distributors and providers, which could negatively affect our brand and reputation. A global economic slowdown could also adversely affect the businesses of our distributors and it is possible that they may not be able to devote the resources we expect to our relationships with such distributors.. If we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining our relationships with these third parties, our ability to compete in the marketplace or to grow our revenue could be impaired and our operating results could suffer. Even if we are successful, we cannot assure you that these relationships will result in improved operating results.. Failure to effectively retain and expand our direct sales teams and develop and expand our indirect sales channel will impede our growth.. We will need to continue to expand our sales and marketing infrastructure in order to grow our client base and our business. We plan to expand our direct sales teams and engage additional third-party distributors, both domestically and internationally. Identifying, recruiting and training these people and entities will require significant time, expense and attention. Our business will be seriously harmed and our financial resources will be wasted if our efforts to expand our direct and indirect sales channels do not generate a corresponding increase in revenue, and we may be required to sacrifice near-term growth and divert management attention in order to restructure our direct sales teams. In particular, if our recent transition to a sales commission model based solely on subscription or recurring revenue and other recent organizational changes hinder our ability to hire, develop and retain talented sales personnel or if our new direct sales personnel are unable to achieve expected productivity levels in a reasonable period of time, we may not be able to significantly increase our revenue and grow our business.. Restructuring activities could adversely affect our ability to execute our business strategy.. In December 2017, we announced that we were implementing a restructuring plan to reduce the headcount of our global service delivery team, as well as the headcount of some of our sales teams, representing a workforce reduction of approximately six percent. In connection with this action, we incurred approximately $1.5 million of expenditures in the quarter ended December 31, 2017 and we estimate we will incur approximately $3.0 million of expenditures, substantially all of which will be severance costs, in the quarter ended March 31, 2018. This restructuring and any future restructurings, should it become necessary for us to continue to restructure our business due to worldwide market conditions or other factors that reduce the demand for our products and services, could adversely affect our ability to execute our business strategy.. 22. If we fail to retain key employees and recruit qualified technical and sales personnel, our business could be harmed.. We believe that our success depends on the continued employment of our senior management and other key employees, such as our chief executive officer. In addition, because our future success is dependent on our ability to continue to enhance and introduce new software and services, we are heavily dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified engineers with the requisite education, background and industry experience. As we expand our business, our continued success will also depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain qualified sales, marketing and operational personnel capable of supporting a larger and more diverse client base. The loss of the services of a significant number of our engineers or sales people could be disruptive to our development efforts or business relationships. In addition, if any of our key employees joins a competitor or decides to otherwise compete with us, we may experience a material disruption of our operations and development plans, which may cause us to lose clients or increase operating expenses as the attention of our remaining senior managers is diverted to recruit replacements for the departed key employees.. Changes to U.S. immigration and work authorization laws and regulations can be significantly affected by political forces and levels of economic activity. Our international expansion and our business may be materially adversely affected if legislative or administrative changes to immigration or visa laws and regulations impair our hiring processes or projects involving personnel who are not citizens of the country where the work is to be performed.. Failure to effectively manage client deployments by our third-party service providers could adversely impact our business.. In cases where our third-party service providers are engaged either by us or by a client directly to deploy a product for a client, our third-party service providers need to have a substantial understanding of such client's business so that they can configure the product in a manner that complements its existing business processes and integrates the product into its existing systems. It may be difficult for us to manage the timeliness of these deployments and the allocation of personnel and resources by our clients. Failure to successfully manage client deployments by us or our third-party service providers could harm our reputation and cause us to lose existing clients, face potential client disputes or limit the rate at which new clients purchase our products.. Forecasts of our business growth and profitability may prove to be inaccurate, and even if the markets in which we compete achieve the forecasted growth, we cannot assure you our business will grow at similar rates, or at all.. Our forecasts are subject to significant uncertainty and are based on assumptions and estimates which may not prove to be accurate. These assumptions and estimates include the timing and value of agreements with our customers, variability in the service delivery periods for our customers, impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and expected growth in our market and related costs to support the growth of our business. Our assumptions and estimates related to our business growth and profitability, including the performance of our core business and emerging businesses and the demand for our products in the United States, Europe, Japan and other regions, may prove to be inaccurate. Even if the markets experience the forecasted growth, we may not grow our business at similar rates, or at all. Our growth is subject to many factors, including our success in implementing our business strategy, which is subject to many risks and uncertainties.. Even if demand for human capital management products and services increases generally, there is no guarantee that demand for SaaS products like ours will increase to a corresponding degree.. The widespread adoption of our products depends not only on strong demand for human capital management products and services generally, but also for products and services delivered via a SaaS business model in particular. There are still a significant number of organizations that have adopted no human capital management functions at all, and it is unclear whether such organizations will ever adopt such functions and, if they do, whether they will desire a SaaS human capital management platform like ours. As a result, we cannot assure you that our SaaS human capital management platform will achieve and sustain the high level of market acceptance that is critical for the success of our business.. 23. Our business depends substantially on clients renewing their agreements with us, purchasing additional products from us or adding additional users. Any decline in our clients renewing their agreements, purchasing additional products or adding additional users would harm our future operating results.. In order for us to improve our operating results, it is important that our clients renew their agreements with us when the initial contract term expires and also purchase additional products or add additional users. Our clients have no obligation to renew their subscriptions after the initial subscription period, and we cannot assure you that our clients will renew their subscriptions at the same or a higher level of service, if at all. Every year, some of our clients elect not to renew their agreements with us. Moreover, certain of our clients have the right to cancel their agreements for convenience, subject to certain notice requirements and, in some cases, early termination fees. Our client renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our products, our pricing, the prices of competing products or services, mergers and acquisitions affecting our client base, reduced hiring by our clients or reductions in our clients' spending levels. If our clients do not renew their subscriptions, renew on less favorable terms, fail to purchase additional products or fail to add new users, our revenue may decline and our operating results may be harmed.. Integrated, comprehensive SaaS products such as ours represent a relatively recent approach to addressing organizations' human capital management challenges, and we may be forced to change the prices we charge for our products, or the pricing model upon which they are based, as the market for these types of products evolves.. Providing organizations with applications to address their human capital management challenges through integrated, comprehensive SaaS products is a developing market. The market for these products is therefore still evolving, and competitive dynamics may cause pricing levels, as well as pricing models generally, to change, as the market matures and as existing and new market participants introduce new types of products and different approaches to enable organizations to address their human capital management needs. As a result, we may be forced to reduce the prices we charge for our products or the pricing model on which they are based, and may be unable to renew existing client agreements or enter into new client agreements at the same prices and upon the same terms that we have historically, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, gross margin and other operating results.. Evolving regulation of the Internet, changes in the infrastructure underlying the Internet, or interruptions in Internet access may adversely affect our financial condition by increasing our expenditures and causing client dissatisfaction.. As Internet commerce continues to evolve, regulation by federal, state or foreign agencies may increase. We are particularly sensitive to these risks because the Internet is a critical component of our business model. In addition, taxation of services provided over the Internet or other charges for accessing the Internet may be imposed by government agencies or private organizations. Changes in laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the Internet, or impact the way that Internet service providers treat Internet traffic, including laws impacting net neutrality, may negatively increase our operating costs or otherwise impact our business. Any regulation imposing greater fees for Internet use or restricting information exchanged over the Internet could result in a decline in the use of the Internet and the viability of Internet-based services, which could harm our business.. In addition, the rapid and continual growth of traffic on the Internet has resulted at times in slow connection and download speeds among Internet users. Our business expansion may be harmed if the Internet infrastructure cannot handle our clients' demands or if hosting capacity becomes insufficient. If our clients become frustrated with the speed at which they can utilize our products over the Internet, our clients may discontinue the use of our human capital management platform and choose not to renew their contracts with us. Further, the performance of the Internet has also been adversely affected by viruses, worms, hacking, phishing attacks, denial of service attacks and other similar malicious programs, as well as other forms of damage to portions of its infrastructure, which have resulted in a variety of Internet outages, interruptions and other delays. These service interruptions could diminish the overall attractiveness of our products to existing and potential users and could cause demand for our products to suffer.. We currently have a number of international offices and are expanding our international operations. Additionally, we do not have substantial experience in all international markets and may not achieve the results that we expect.. We currently have international offices in several countries, including in Australia, Brazil, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Israel, Japan, Netherlands, New Zealand, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom, and we may expand our international operations into other countries in the future. International operations involve a variety of risks that may decrease demand for, or restrict our ability to sell or provide, our products, including:. • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, taxes, trade laws, tariffs, export quotas, custom duties or other trade restrictions;. • differing labor regulations;. • regulations relating to data security and the unauthorized use of, or access to, commercial and personal information;. 24. • potential penalties or other adverse consequences for violations of anti-corruption, anti-bribery and other similar laws and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act;. • greater difficulty in supporting and localizing our products;. • unrest and/or changes in a specific country's or region's social, political, legal or economic conditions;. • challenges inherent in efficiently managing an increased number of employees over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, controls, policies, benefits and compliance programs;. • currency exchange rate fluctuations, including any fluctuations caused by uncertainties relating to Brexit;. • limited or unfavorable intellectual property protection; and. • restrictions on repatriation of earnings.. We have less significant experience in marketing, selling and supporting our products and services abroad than domestically. Our less significant experience in operating our business internationally increases the risk that any potential future expansion efforts that we may undertake will not be successful. In addition, it may take us longer to build our presence in international markets. If we invest substantial time and resources to expand our international operations and are unable to do so successfully and in a timely manner, our business and operating results will suffer.. Our operations could be materially affected by changes in domestic and foreign economic, political or legal conditions. For example, we are monitoring developments related to Brexit, which could have significant implications for our business. The political and economic instability created by the United Kingdom's vote to leave the EU has caused and may continue to cause significant volatility in global financial markets and the value of the British Pound currency or other currencies, including the Euro. Depending on the terms reached regarding any exit from the EU, it is possible that there may be adverse practical and/or operational implications on our business.. Failure to comply with anti-bribery, anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences.. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act and other anti-corruption, anti-bribery and anti-money laundering laws in various jurisdictions both domestic and abroad. We leverage third parties, including channel partners, to sell subscriptions to our platform and conduct our business abroad. We and our third-party intermediaries may have direct or indirect interactions with officials and employees of government agencies or state-owned or affiliated entities and may be held liable for the corrupt or other illegal activities of these third-party business partners and intermediaries, our employees, representatives, contractors, channel partners and agents, even if we do not explicitly authorize such activities. While we have policies and procedure to address compliance with such laws, we cannot assure you that all of our employees and agents will not take actions in violation of our policies and applicable law, for which we may be ultimately held responsible. Any violation of the FCPA or other applicable anti-bribery, anti-corruption laws and anti-money laundering laws could result in whistleblower complaints, adverse media coverage, investigations, loss of export privileges, severe criminal or civil sanctions, or suspension or debarment from U.S. government contracts, all of which may have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, operating results and prospects.. If we fail to develop our brand cost-effectively, our business may suffer.. We believe that developing and maintaining awareness of the Cornerstone OnDemand brand in a cost-effective manner is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our existing and future products and is an important element in attracting new clients. Furthermore, we believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition in our market increases. Successful promotion of our brand will depend largely on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and on our ability to provide reliable and useful services at competitive prices. In the past, our efforts to build our brand have involved significant expenses. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenue, and even if they do, any increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incurred in building our brand. In addition, the Cornerstone OnDemand Foundation shares our company name and any negative perceptions of any kind about the Cornerstone OnDemand Foundation could adversely affect our brand and reputation. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand, or incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brand, we may fail to attract enough new clients or retain our existing clients to the extent necessary to realize a sufficient return on our brand-building efforts, and our business could suffer.. 25. Our sales to government entities are subject to a number of additional challenges and risks.. We sell to U.S. federal and state and foreign governmental agency customers, and we may increase sales to government entities in the future. For example, in June 2017, we entered into an agreement with the U.S. Postal Service that authorizes, but does not guarantee, the purchase by the U.S. Postal Service of our software and services to support their more than 600,000 employees. The additional risks and challenges associated with doing business with governmental entities include, but are not limited to, the following:. • Selling to governmental entities can be more competitive, expensive and time-consuming than selling to private entities, often requiring significant upfront time and expense without any assurance that these efforts will generate a sale;. • Government certification requirements may change, or we may lose one or more government certifications, such as FedRAMP, and in doing so restrict our ability to sell into the government sector until we have attained revised certificates;. • Governmental entities may have significant leverage in negotiations, thereby enabling such entities to demand contract terms that differ from what we generally agree to in our standard agreements, including, for example, most favored nation clauses and terms allowing contract termination for convenience;. • Government demand and payment for our products may be influenced by public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations, with funding reductions or delays having an adverse impact on public sector demand for our products; and. • Government contracts are generally subject to audits and investigations, which we have limited experience with, potentially resulting in termination of contracts, refund of a portion of fees received, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from future government business.. To the extent that we become more reliant on contracts with government entities in the future, our exposure to such risks and challenges could increase, which, in turn, could adversely impact our business.. If for any reason we are not able to develop enhancements and new features, keep pace with technological developments or respond to future disruptive technologies, our business will be harmed.. Our future success will depend on our ability to adapt and innovate. To attract new clients and increase revenue from existing clients, we will need to enhance and improve our existing products and introduce new features. The success of any enhancement or new feature depends on several factors, including timely completion, introduction and market acceptance. If we are unable to enhance our existing products to meet client needs or successfully develop or acquire new features or products, or if such new features or products fail to be successful, our business and operating results will be adversely affected.. In addition, because our products are designed to operate on a variety of network, hardware and software platforms using Internet tools and protocols, we will need to continuously modify and enhance our products to keep pace with changes in internet-related hardware, software, communication, browser and database technologies. If we are unable to respond in a timely and cost-effective manner to these rapid technological developments, our products may become less marketable and less competitive or obsolete, and our operating results may be negatively impacted.. Finally, our ability to grow is subject to the risk of future disruptive technologies. If new technologies emerge that are able to deliver a human capital management platform at lower prices, more efficiently or more conveniently, such technologies could adversely impact our ability to compete.. We may require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all.. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may seek additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new features or enhance our existing products, improve our operating infrastructure or acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in additional equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through issuances of equity or debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing secured by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly impaired.. 26. Further, the indenture governing the convertible notes due 2021 includes a restrictive covenant that, subject to specified exceptions and parameters, limits our ability to incur additional debt. We may be unable to take advantage of strategic or business development opportunities as they arise, or we may not be able to react to market conditions, if we are restricted in our ability to raise debt financing, or we may be required to seek alternative means to generate cash, including by selling assets, refinancing or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive, if available at all.. In addition, in connection with the sale of our convertible notes due 2012, we entered into an investment agreement with Silver Lake providing Silver Lake with the option to purchase all or a portion of any equity securities, or instruments convertible into or exchangeable for any equity securities, in any proposed offerings by us until the earlier of June 2019 or such time as Silver Lake no longer has a representative and no longer has rights to have a representative on our Board. Although Silver Lake's option will not apply to equity securities issued in connection with acquisitions, underwritten public offerings, strategic partnerships or commercial arrangements, or equity compensation plans, Silver Lake's participation rights could impact our ability to raise additional capital.. Servicing our debt will require a significant amount of cash, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness, including our convertible notes due 2021 and 2018, which represent an aggregate principal amount of $553.0 million, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to satisfy our obligations under the notes and any future indebtedness we may incur and to make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, refinancing or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance the notes or future indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on the notes or future indebtedness.. Further, with certain exceptions, upon a change of control, the holders of our convertible notes due 2021 may require that we repurchase all or part of such notes at a purchase price equal to the principal amount plus the total sum of all remaining scheduled interest payments through the remainder of the term of the notes. In addition, with certain exceptions, upon a change of control, the holders of our convertible notes due 2018 may require us to purchase all or a portion of such notes for cash at a price equal to the principal amount of such notes plus any accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the effective date of the change of control. In such event, we may not have enough cash available or be able to obtain financing to repurchase the notes, and our ability to repurchase notes may be limited by law, regulatory authority or agreements governing our other indebtedness.. Because of how we recognize revenue, a significant downturn in our business may not be immediately reflected in our operating results.. Generally, we recognize revenue from subscription agreements monthly over the terms of these agreements, which is typically three years for our human capital management platform. As a result, a significant portion of the revenue we report in each quarter is generated from client agreements entered into during previous periods. Consequently, a decline in new subscriptions in any one quarter may not significantly impact our revenue and financial performance in that quarter, but will negatively affect our revenue, or rate of revenue growth and financial performance in future quarters.. In addition, if subscription agreements expire and are not renewed in the same quarter, our revenue and financial performance in that quarter and subsequent quarters will be negatively affected. However, the revenue impact may not be immediately reflected in our operating results to the extent there is an offsetting increase in revenue from services contracts performed in that same quarter.. Finally, we may be unable to adjust our fixed costs in response to reduced revenue. Accordingly, the effect of significant declines in sales and market acceptance of our products may not be reflected in our short-term operating results.. Because we generally recognize subscription revenue from our clients over the terms of their agreements but incur most costs associated with generating such agreements upfront, rapid growth in our client base may put downward pressure on our operating income in the short term.. The expenses associated with generating client agreements are generally incurred up front but the resulting subscription revenue is generally recognized over the life of the agreements; therefore, increased growth in the number of our clients will result in our recognition of more costs than revenue during the early periods covered by such agreements, even in cases where the agreements are expected to be profitable for us over their full terms.. 27. We have a history of losses, and we cannot be certain that we will achieve or sustain profitability.. We have incurred losses since our inception. We experienced net losses of $61.3 million, $66.8 million and $85.5 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. At December 31, 2017, our accumulated deficit was $515.1 million and total stockholders' equity was $22.1 million. We expect to continue to incur operating losses as a result of expenses associated with the continued development and expansion of our business. Our expenses include among others, sales and marketing, research and development, consulting and support services and other costs relating to the development, marketing and sale and service of our products that may not generate revenue until later periods, if at all. Any failure to increase revenue or manage our cost structure as we implement initiatives to grow our business could prevent us from achieving or sustaining profitability. In addition, our ability to achieve profitability is subject to a number of the risks and uncertainties discussed below, many of which are beyond our control. We cannot be certain that we will be able to achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis.. The conversion feature of the convertible notes due 2018 could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. In the event the conditional conversion feature of the convertible notes due 2018 is triggered, holders of such notes will be entitled to convert the notes at any time during specified periods at their option. In addition, holders of these notes may convert all or a portion of their notes at any time on and after April 1, 2018. If one or more holders elect to convert their notes, we would be required to settle a portion of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital.. The accounting methods for our convertible debt securities may have a material effect on our reported financial results.. In May 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued FASB Staff Position No. APB 14-1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash Upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement), which has subsequently been codified as Accounting Standards Codification 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options, which we refer to as ASC 470-20. Under ASC 470-20, an entity must separately account for the liability and equity components of the convertible debt instruments (such as the convertible notes due 2018) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the issuer's economic interest cost. The effect of ASC 470-20 on the accounting for the convertible notes due 2018 is that the equity component is required to be included in the additional paid-in capital section of stockholders' equity on our consolidated balance sheet, and the value of the equity component would be treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of the notes. As a result, we will be required to record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense in current periods presented as a result of the amortization of the discounted carrying value of the convertible notes due 2018 to their face amount over the term of the notes. We will report lower net income (or greater net loss) in our financial results because ASC 470-20 will require interest to include both the current period's amortization of the debt discount and the instrument's coupon interest, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results, the market price of our common stock and the trading price of the notes.. In addition, convertible debt instruments (such as the convertible notes due 2018) that may be settled entirely or partly in cash are currently accounted for utilizing the treasury stock method, the effect of which is that the shares issuable upon conversion of the notes are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of the notes exceeds their principal amount. Under the treasury stock method, for diluted earnings per share purposes, the transaction is accounted for as if the number of shares of common stock that would be necessary to settle such excess, if we elected to settle such excess in shares, are issued. We cannot be sure that the accounting standards in the future will continue to permit the use of the treasury stock method. In contrast, our convertible notes due 2021 may be settled upon conversion only in shares of our common stock. As a result, the shares issuable upon conversion of these notes will be included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share assuming the conversion of the notes at the beginning of the reporting period if the impact is dilutive. To the extent that we are required to include shares issuable upon conversion of our convertible debt securities in the calculation of diluted earnings per share, our diluted earnings per share will be adversely affected.. 28. The nature of our business requires the application of complex revenue and expense recognition rules and the current legislative and regulatory environment affecting GAAP is uncertain. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse, unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and affect our reported operating results.. The accounting rules and regulations that we must comply with are complex and subject to interpretation by the FASB, the SEC and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. In addition, many companies' accounting disclosures are being subjected to heightened scrutiny by regulators and the public. A change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business.. For example, in May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which supersedes nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP. We will adopt Topic 606 on the effective date of January 1, 2018, using the modified retrospective transition method, and plan to implement changes to our accounting, internal controls and disclosures to support the new standard. Under this guidance, revenue is recognized when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods and services. The guidance is expected to impact the timing and recognition of costs to obtain contracts with customers, such as commissions, and may result in variability in our revenue recognition from period to period that may cause unexpected variability in our operating results. Any difficulties in implementing this new standard could cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations, which could result in regulatory discipline, harm investors' confidence in us, and adversely affect our stock price.. To the extent that our pre-tax income or loss becomes relatively modest, our ability to conclude that a control deficiency is not a material weakness or that an accounting error does not require a restatement could be adversely affected.. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our management is required to assess the impact of control deficiencies based upon both quantitative and qualitative factors, and depending upon that analysis, we classify such identified deficiencies as either a control deficiency, significant deficiency or a material weakness. One element of our analysis of the significance of any control deficiency is its actual or potential financial impact. This assessment will vary depending on our level of pre-tax income or loss. For example, a smaller pre-tax income or loss will increase the likelihood of a quantitative assessment of a control deficiency as a significant deficiency or material weakness.. To the extent that our pre-tax income or loss is relatively small, if management or our independent registered public accountants identify an error in our interim or annual financial statements, it is more likely that such an error may be determined to be a material weakness or be considered a material error that could, depending upon the complete quantitative and qualitative analysis, result in our having to restate previously issued financial statements.. If we fail to adequately protect our proprietary rights, our competitive advantage and brand could be impaired and we may lose valuable assets, generate reduced revenue and incur costly litigation to protect our rights.. Our success is dependent, in part, upon protecting our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our products and services. However, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property may be inadequate. We will not be able to protect our intellectual property if we are unable to enforce our rights or if we do not detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy our products and use information that we regard as proprietary to create products and services that compete with ours. Some license provisions protecting against unauthorized use, copying, transfer and disclosure of our licensed products may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions and foreign countries. Further, the laws of some countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. To the extent we expand our international activities, our exposure to unauthorized copying and use of our products and proprietary information may increase. We enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and consultants and enter into confidentiality agreements with the parties with whom we have strategic relationships and business alliances. These agreements may not be effective in controlling access to and distribution of our products and proprietary information. Further, these agreements do not prevent our competitors from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products. Litigation brought to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly, time consuming and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. If we fail to secure, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, we may lose valuable assets, generate reduced revenue and incur costly litigation to protect our rights, which could seriously harm our brand and adversely impact our business.. 29. We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights or may find it necessary to enter into licensing arrangements with third parties to settle or forestall such claims, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.. There is considerable patent and other intellectual property development activity in our industry. Our success depends in part upon our not infringing the intellectual property rights of others. However, our competitors, as well as a number of other entities and individuals, may own or claim to own intellectual property relating to our industry or, in some cases, our technology or products. From time to time, such third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, and we may actually be found to be infringing such rights. Moreover, we may be subject to claims of infringement with respect to technology that we acquire or license from third parties. The risk that we could be subject to infringement claims is increasing as the number of products and companies competing with our platform grows. Any claims or litigation could require the commitment of substantial time and resources and, if successfully asserted against us, could require that we pay substantial damages or ongoing royalty or licensing payments, indemnify our clients, distributors or other third parties, modify or discontinue the sale of our products, or refund fees, any of which would deplete our resources and adversely impact our business. We have in the past obtained, and may in the future obtain, licenses from third parties to forestall or settle potential claims that our products and technology infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Discussions and negotiations with such third parties, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management resources, either of which could seriously harm our business.. Indemnity provisions in various agreements potentially expose us to substantial liability for intellectual property infringement and other losses.. Our agreements with clients and other third parties may include indemnification provisions under which we agree to indemnify them for losses suffered or incurred as a result of claims of intellectual property infringement, damages caused by us to property or persons, or other liabilities relating to or arising from our products, services or other contractual obligations. The term of these indemnity provisions generally survives termination or expiration of the applicable agreement. Large indemnity payments could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. From time to time, we are requested by clients to indemnify them for breach of confidentiality with respect to personal data. Although we normally do not agree to, or contractually limit our liability with respect to, such requests, the existence of such a dispute with a client may have adverse effects on our client relationships and reputation.. We use open source software in our products, which could subject us to litigation or other actions.. We use open source software in our products and may use more open source software in the future. From time to time, there have been claims challenging the ownership of open source software against companies that incorporate open source software into their products. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. Litigation could be costly for us to defend, have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition or require us to devote additional research and development resources to change our products. In addition, if we were to combine our proprietary software products with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain of the open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software products. If we inappropriately use open source software, we may be required to re-engineer our products, discontinue the sale of our products or take other remedial actions.. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could impair our ability to compete in international markets due to licensing requirements and subject us to liability if we are not in full compliance with applicable laws.. Our products are subject to export controls, including the Commerce Department's Export Administration Regulations and various economic and trade sanctions regulations established by the Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Controls, and exports of our products must be made in compliance with these laws. If we fail to comply with these U.S. export control laws and import laws, including U.S. Customs regulations, we and certain of our employees could be subject to substantial civil or criminal penalties, including the possible loss of export or import privileges; fines, which may be imposed on us and responsible employees or managers; and, in extreme cases, the incarceration of responsible employees or managers. In addition, if our distributors fail to obtain appropriate import, export or re-export licenses or authorizations, we may also be adversely affected through reputational harm and penalties. Obtaining the necessary authorizations, including any required license, for a particular sale may be time-consuming and is not guaranteed, and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. Furthermore, the U.S. export control laws and economic sanctions laws prohibit the shipment of certain products and services to U.S. embargoed or sanctioned countries, governments and persons. Even though we take precautions to prevent our products from being shipped or provided to U.S. sanctions targets, our products and services could be shipped to those targets or provided by our distributors despite such precautions. Any such shipment could have negative consequences, including government investigations, penalties and reputational harm. In addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology, including through import permitting or licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or could limit our clients' ability to implement our products in those countries.. 30. Changes to our products or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction and sale of our products in international markets, prevent our clients with international operations from deploying our products or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries, governments or persons altogether. Any change in export or import regulations, economic sanctions or related laws, shift in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to existing or potential clients with international operations. Any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products would likely adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. We rely on implementation partners to deliver professional services to our clients, and if these implementation partners fail to deliver these professional services effectively, or if we are unable to incentivize new partners to service our customers, our operating results will be harmed.. We rely on various partners to assist us in the successful implementation of our products and to optimize our clients' use of our products during the terms of their engagements. We provide our implementation partners with specific training and programs to assist them in servicing our clients, but there can be no assurance that these steps will be utilized or effective. If these partners fail to deliver these services to our customers in an effective and timely manner, we may suffer reputational harm and our results of operations may be adversely impacted. We also may not be able to incentivize new partners to service our customers. If we are unable to maintain our existing relationships or enter into new ones, we would have to devote substantially more resources to delivering our professional services. If we fail to effectively manage our implementation partners, our ability to sell our products and subscriptions and our operating results will be harmed.. Our investment portfolio is subject to general credit, liquidity, counterparty, market and interest rate risks, any of which could impair the market value of our investments and harm our financial results.. At December 31, 2017, we had $393.6 million in cash and cash equivalents and $263.5 million in short-term and long-term investments in marketable securities, consisting of corporate bonds, money market funds backed by United States Treasury Bills, U.S. treasury securities and agency securities. Although we follow an established investment policy and set of guidelines to manage our investment portfolio, our investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, counterparty, market and interest rate risks, which have been exacerbated by the recent financial and credit crisis, rising bankruptcy filings in the United States and the ongoing debt-ceiling debate.. Because the market value of fixed-rate debt securities may be adversely impacted by a rise in interest rates, our future investment income may fall short of expectations if interest rates rise. In addition, we may suffer losses if we are forced to sell securities that have experienced a decline in market value because of changes in interest rates. Currently, we do not use financial derivatives to hedge our interest rate exposure.. The fair value of our investments may change significantly due to events and conditions in the credit and capital markets. Any investment securities that we hold, or the issuers of such securities, could be subject to review for possible downgrade. Any downgrade in these credit ratings may result in an additional decline in the estimated fair value of our investments. Changes in the various assumptions used to value these securities and any increase in the perceived market risk associated with such investments may also result in a decline in estimated fair value.. In the event of adverse conditions in the credit and capital markets, and to the extent we make future investments, our investment portfolio may be impacted, and we could determine that some or all of our investments experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment, which could adversely impact our financial position and operating results.. We may invest in companies for strategic reasons and may not realize a return on our investments.. In November 2013, we launched a strategic initiative created to invest in, advise and collaborate with promising cloud startups building innovative business applications that support the continued expansion of our market reach. We have made, and from time to time may continue to make, strategic investments in privately-held companies. The privately-held companies in which we may invest are considered inherently risky. The technologies and products these companies have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize, which could result in a loss of all or a substantial part of our initial investment in these companies. The evaluation of privately-held companies is based on information that we request from these companies, which is not subject to the same disclosure regulations as U.S. publicly traded companies, and as such, the basis for these evaluations is subject to the timing and accuracy of the data received from these companies.. 31. Risks Related to Tax Issues. We are a multinational organization faced with increasingly complex tax issues in many jurisdictions, and we could be obligated to pay additional taxes in various jurisdictions.. As a multinational organization, we are subject to taxation in several jurisdictions around the world with increasingly complex tax laws, the application of which can be uncertain. The amount of taxes we pay in these jurisdictions could increase substantially as a result of changes in the applicable tax principles, including increased tax rates, new tax laws or revised interpretations of existing tax laws and precedents, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and operating results. In addition, the authorities in these jurisdictions could review our tax returns and impose additional tax, interest and penalties, and the authorities could claim that various withholding requirements apply to us or our subsidiaries or assert that benefits of tax treaties are not available to us or our subsidiaries, any of which could have a material impact on us and our operating results. If we are selected for future examinations that uncover incorrect tax positions, we could be subject to additional taxes, interest and penalties.. Taxing authorities could reallocate our taxable income among our subsidiaries, which could increase our consolidated tax liability.. We conduct operations worldwide through subsidiaries in various tax jurisdictions pursuant to transfer pricing arrangements between our subsidiaries. If two or more affiliated companies are located in different countries, the tax laws or regulations of each country generally will require that transfer prices be the same as those between unrelated companies dealing at arms' length and that contemporaneous documentation is maintained to support the transfer prices. While we believe that we operate in compliance with applicable transfer pricing laws and intend to continue to do so, our transfer pricing procedures are not binding on applicable tax authorities. If tax authorities in any of these countries were to successfully challenge our transfer prices as not reflecting arm's length transactions, they could require us to adjust our transfer prices and thereby reallocate our income to reflect these revised transfer prices, which could result in a higher tax liability to us. In addition, if the country from which the income is reallocated does not agree with the reallocation, both countries could tax the same income, resulting in double taxation. If tax authorities were to allocate income to a higher tax jurisdiction, subject our income to double taxation or assess interest and penalties, it would increase our consolidated tax liability, which could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. The recently passed comprehensive tax reform bill could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, new legislation was enacted that significantly revises the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The newly enacted federal income tax law, among other things, contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including reduction of the corporate tax rate from a top marginal rate of 35% to a flat rate of 21%, limitation of the tax deduction for interest expense to 30% of adjusted earnings (except for certain small businesses), limitations on the deductibility of executive compensation, limitation of the deduction for net operating losses to 80% of current year taxable income and elimination of net operating loss carrybacks, one time taxation of offshore earnings at reduced rates regardless of whether they are repatriated, elimination of U.S. tax on foreign earnings (subject to certain important exceptions), immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, and modifying or repealing many business deductions and credits. Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the new federal tax law is uncertain and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, it is uncertain if and to what extent various states will conform to the newly enacted federal tax law. The Act's new international rules, including the Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income, the Foreign Derived Intangible Income and the Base Erosion Anti-Avoidance Tax, are highly complex and may affect our financial condition as additional interpretive guidance is issued. The impact of this tax reform on holders of our common stock is also uncertain and could be adverse. We urge our stockholders to consult with their legal and tax advisors with respect to this legislation and the potential tax consequences of investing in or holding our common stock.. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to reduce future tax payments may be subject to limitations.. We have federal and state net operating loss carryforwards that will begin to expire, if not utilized. These net operating loss carryforwards could expire unused and be unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities. Under the newly enacted federal income tax law, federal net operating losses incurred in 2018 and in future years may be carried forward indefinitely, but the deductibility of such federal net operating losses may be limited. It is uncertain if and to what extent various states will conform to the newly enacted federal tax law. In addition, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change\" (generally defined as a greater than 50% change (by value) in its equity ownership over a three year period), the corporation's ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes (such as research tax credits) to offset its post-change income may be limited. We may experience ownership changes in the future and subsequent shifts in our stock ownership. As a result, we may be limited in the. 32. portion of net operating loss carryforwards that we can use in the future to offset taxable income for U.S. Federal income tax purposes.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. The trading price of our common stock may be volatile.. The trading price of our common stock has at times been volatile and could continue to be subject to significant fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the companies operating in such markets. The market price of our common stock may be similarly volatile, and investors in our common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their shares, including as a result of factors unrelated to our operating performance and prospects. The market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including:. • our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies;. • the financial or non-financial metric projections we provide to the public, including the failure of the projections to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, and any changes in these projections or our failure to meet or exceed these projections;. • the overall performance of the equity markets;. • developments with respect to intellectual property rights;. • publication of unfavorable research reports about us or our industry or withdrawal of research coverage by securities analysts;. • speculation in the press or investment community;. • the size of our public float;. • natural disasters or terrorist acts;. • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, new technologies, acquisitions, commercial relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; and. • global economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance.. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against these companies. This litigation, if initiated against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish misleading or unfavorable research about our business, the market price of our common stock and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us, our business or our market. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our common stock or publish incorrect or unfavorable research about our business, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. In addition, if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our common stock could decrease, which could cause the market price of our stock or trading volume to decline.. The issuance of additional stock in connection with acquisitions, our stock incentive plans or otherwise will dilute all other stockholdings.. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to 1,000,000,000 shares of common stock and up to 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such rights and preferences as may be determined by our board of directors. Subject to compliance with applicable rules and regulations, we may issue all of these shares that are not already outstanding without any action or approval by our stockholders. We intend to continue to evaluate strategic acquisitions in the future. We may pay for such acquisitions, partly or in full, through the issuance of additional equity. Any issuance of shares in connection with our acquisitions, the exercise of stock options, the vesting of restricted stock units or otherwise would dilute the percentage ownership held by existing investors.. 33. We cannot guarantee that our recently announced share repurchase program will be fully consummated or that it will enhance shareholder value, and share repurchases could affect the trading price of our common stock.. In November 2017, our board of directors authorized a $100.0 million share repurchase program. Although our board of directors has authorized a share repurchase program, the share repurchase program does not obligate us to repurchase any specific dollar amount or to acquire any specific number of shares. The share repurchase program could affect the price of our common stock, increase volatility and diminish our cash reserves. In addition, it may be suspended or terminated at any time, which may result in a decrease in the price of our common stock.. Conversion of our convertible notes may dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their notes, or may otherwise depress the price of our common stock.. The conversion of some or all of our convertible notes due 2021 and the conversion of all or some of our convertible notes due 2018, to the extent we deliver shares upon conversion of the 2018 notes. will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of our common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the notes could be used to satisfy short positions, or anticipated conversion of the notes into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock.. We do not expect to declare any dividends in the foreseeable future.. We do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Consequently, investors may need to sell all or part of their holdings of our common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of our company.. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us or changes in our management. Our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws include provisions that:. • authorize \"blank check\" preferred stock, which could be issued by the board without stockholder approval and may contain voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock;. • create a classified board of directors whose members serve staggered three-year terms;. • specify that special meetings of our stockholders can be called only by our board of directors, the chairperson of the board, the chief executive officer or the president;. • establish an advance notice procedure for stockholder approvals to be brought before an annual meeting of our stockholders, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our board of directors;. • provide that our directors may be removed only for cause;. • provide that vacancies on our board of directors may be filled only by a majority of directors then in office, even though less than a quorum;. • specify that no stockholder is permitted to cumulate votes at any election of directors; and. • require supermajority votes of the holders of our common stock to amend specified provisions of our charter documents.. These provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management.. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which limits the ability of stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock to merge or combine with us.. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock."
