[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Past financial performance is not necessarily a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors in our common stock should not use historical performance to anticipate results or future period trends. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Investors should consider carefully the following risk factors, as well as the other information in this annual report and our other filings with the SEC, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, before deciding whether to invest or maintain an investment in shares of our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would suffer. In this case, the trading price of our common stock would likely decline. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks that we currently do not know about or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations.. If we fail to grow our business internally or through strategic acquisitions we may be unable to execute our business plan, maintain high levels of service or adequately address competitive challenges.. Our strategy is to continue internal growth and, as strategic opportunities arise in the workers' compensation managed care industry, to consider acquisitions of, or relationships with, other companies in related lines of business. As a result, we are subject to certain growth-related risks, including the risk that we will be unable to retain personnel or acquire other resources necessary to service such growth adequately. Expenses arising from our efforts to increase our market penetration may have a negative impact on operating results. In addition, there can be no assurance that any suitable opportunities for strategic acquisitions or relationships will arise or, if they do arise, that the transactions contemplated could be completed. If such a transaction does occur, there can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate effectively any acquired business. In addition, any such transaction would be subject to various risks associated with the acquisition of businesses, including, but not limited to, the following:. •  an acquisition may (i) negatively impact our results of operations because it may require incurring large one-time charges, substantial debt or liabilities; (ii) require the amortization or write down of amounts related to deferred compensation, goodwill and other intangible assets; or (iii) cause adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges;. •  we may encounter difficulties in assimilating and integrating the business, technologies, products, services, personnel, or operations of companies that are acquired, particularly if key personnel of the acquired company decide not to work for us;. •  an acquisition may disrupt ongoing business, divert resources, increase expenses, and distract management;. 10. •  the acquired businesses, products, services, or technologies may not generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs;. •  we may have to issue equity or debt securities to complete an acquisition, which would dilute the position of stockholders and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock; and. •  the acquisitions may involve the entry into a geographic or business market in which we have little or no prior experience.. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify or consummate any future acquisitions or other strategic relationships on favorable terms, or at all, or that any future acquisition or other strategic relationship will not have an adverse impact on our business or results of operations. If suitable opportunities arise, we may finance such transactions, as well as internal growth, through debt or equity financing. There can be no assurance, however, that such debt or equity financing would be available to us on acceptable terms when, and if, suitable strategic opportunities arise.. If we are unable to increase our market share among national and regional insurance carriers and large, self-funded employers, our results may be adversely affected.. Our business strategy and future success depend in part on our ability to capture market share with our cost containment services as national and regional insurance carriers and large, self-funded employers look for ways to achieve cost savings. We cannot assure you that we will successfully market our services to these insurance carriers and employers or that they will not resort to other means to achieve cost savings. Additionally, our ability to capture additional market share may be adversely affected by the decision of potential customers to perform services internally instead of outsourcing the provision of such services to us. Furthermore, we may not be able to demonstrate sufficient cost savings to potential or current customers to induce them not to provide comparable services internally or to accelerate efforts to provide such services internally.. If competition increases, our growth and profits may decline.. The markets for our network services and patient management services are also fragmented and competitive. Our competitors include national managed care providers, preferred provider networks, smaller independent providers and insurance companies. Companies that offer one or more workers' compensation managed care services on a national basis are our primary competitors. We also compete with many smaller vendors who generally provide unbundled services on a local level, particularly companies with an established relationship with a local insurance company adjuster. In addition, several large workers' compensation insurance carriers offer managed care services for their customers, either by performance of the services in-house or by outsourcing to organizations like ours. If these carriers increase their performance of these services in-house, our business may be adversely affected. In addition, consolidation in the industry may result in carriers performing more of such services in-house.. Our sequential revenue may not increase and may decline. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of investors or analysts which could cause our common stock price to decline.. Our sequential revenue growth may not increase and may decline in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If changes in our sequential revenue fall below the expectations of investors or analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Fluctuations or declines in sequential revenue growth may be due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below and identified throughout this \"Risk Factors\" section: the decline in manufacturing employment, the decline in workers' compensation claims, the decline in healthcare expenditures, the considerable price competition in a flat-to-declining workers' compensation market, litigation, the increase in competition, and the changes and the potential changes in state workers' compensation and automobile-managed care laws which can reduce demand for our services. These factors create an environment where revenue and margin growth is more difficult to attain and where revenue growth is less certain than historically experienced. Additionally, our technology and preferred provider network face competition from companies that have more resources available to them than we do. Also, some customers may handle their managed care services in-house and may reduce the amount of services which are outsourced to managed care companies such as US. These factors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. There can be no assurance that our growth rate in the future, if any, will be at or near historical levels.. In addition, the stock market has in the past experienced price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected companies in the healthcare and managed care markets resulting in changes in the market price of the stock of many companies, which may not have been directly related to the operating performance of those companies.. Due to the foregoing factors, and the other risks discussed in this report, investors should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance.. 11. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile, which could result in rapid and substantial losses for our stockholders.. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur.  The stock market has in the past experienced price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected companies in the healthcare and managed care markets resulting in changes in the market price of the stock of many companies, which may not have been directly related to the operating performance of those companies.  There can be no assurance that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future.. We cannot assure our stockholders that our stock repurchase program will enhance long-term stockholder value and stock repurchases, if any, could increase the volatility of the price of our common stock and will diminish our cash reserves.. In 1996, out Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program and, since then, has periodically increased the number of shares authorized for repurchase under the repurchase program.  The most recent increase occurred in February 2017 and brought the number of shares authorized for repurchase over the life of the program to 36,000,000 shares. There is no expiration date for the repurchase program. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased, if any, depend on a variety of factors including the timing of open trading windows, price, corporate and regulatory requirements, and other market conditions. The program may be suspended or discontinued at any time without prior notice. Repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program could affect our stock price and increase its volatility. The existence of a stock repurchase program could also cause our stock price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our stock. Additionally, repurchases under our stock repurchase program will diminish our cash reserves, which could impact our ability to pursue possible future strategic opportunities and acquisitions and could result in lower overall returns on our cash balances. There can be no assurance that any further stock repurchases will enhance stockholder value because the market price of our common stock may decline below the levels at which we repurchased shares of stock. Although our stock repurchase program is intended to enhance long-term stockholder value, short-term stock price fluctuations could reduce the program's effectiveness.. If the referrals for our patient management services decline, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected.. In some years, we have experienced a general decline in the revenue and operating performance of patient management services. We believe that the performance decline has been due to the following factors: the decrease of the number of workplace injuries that have become longer-term disability cases; increased regional and local competition from providers of managed care services; a possible reduction by insurers on the types of services provided by our patient management business; the closure of offices and continuing consolidation of our patient management operations; and employee turnover, including management personnel, in our patient management business. In the past, these factors have all contributed to the lowering of our long-term outlook for our patient management services. If some or all of these conditions continue, we believe that revenues from our patient management services could decrease.. Declines in workers' compensation claims may materially harm our results of operations.. Within the past few years, as the labor market has become less labor intensive and more service oriented, there are fewer work-related injuries.  Additionally, employers are being more proactive to prevent injuries.  If declines in workers' compensation costs occur in many states and persist over the long-term, it would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We provide an outsource service to payors of workers' compensation benefits, automobile insurance claims, and group health insurance benefits. These payors include insurance companies, TPAs, municipalities, state funds, and self-insured, self-administered employers. If these payors reduce the amount of work they outsource, our results of operations would be materially adversely affected.. Healthcare providers are becoming increasingly resistant to the application of certain healthcare cost containment techniques; this may cause revenue from our cost containment operations to decrease.. Healthcare providers have become more active in their efforts to minimize the use of certain cost containment techniques and are engaging in litigation to avoid application of certain cost containment practices. Recent litigation between healthcare providers and insurers has challenged certain insurers' claims adjudication and reimbursement decisions. These cases may affect the use by insurers of certain cost containment services that we provide and may result in a decrease in revenue from our cost containment business.. 12. Matters relating to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, including future changes in tax laws, rules and regulations, disagreements with taxing authorities and imposition of new taxes, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was enacted into law. Among numerous provisions included in the new law was the reduction of the corporate federal income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018. As a result of this federal income tax rate change, during the quarter ended December 31, 2017, we reported an effective tax rate of 5%. However, we continue to analyze and assess the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and believe that its impact on our business may not be fully known for some time. During the quarter ended December 31, 2017, we applied the newly enacted corporate federal income tax rate to the remeasurement of U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting in a tax benefit of $3.0 million. The decrease in net deferred tax liabilities was reasonably estimated and based on the tax rates at which they are expected to reverse in the future. The final impact may differ, possibly materially, due to, among other things, changes in interpretations, assumptions made by us, the issuance of federal tax regulations and guidance, and actions we may take as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Taking into account the change in the statutory federal rate as well as other permanent items, we expect our effective combined federal and state tax rate will be approximately 24% to 26% for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2018. This expected effective rate assumes projected financial results consistent with recent trends and applies the new statutory rate and the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act relative to permanent differences between book and tax income. If our assumption that projected financial results will be consistent with recent trends turns out to be incorrect, our effective combined federal and state tax rate could be higher for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2018. In the absence of guidance on various uncertainties and ambiguities in the application of certain provisions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, we will use what we believe are reasonable interpretations and assumptions in applying the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, but it is possible that the U.S. Department of Treasury could issue subsequent rules and regulations, or the Internal Revenue Service could issue subsequent guidance or take positions on audit, that differ from our prior interpretations and assumptions, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash, tax assets and liabilities, results of operations, and financial condition.. Our failure to compete successfully could make it difficult for us to add and retain customers and could reduce or impede the growth of our business.. We face competition from PPOs, TPAs, and other managed healthcare companies. We believe that as managed care techniques continue to gain acceptance in the workers' compensation marketplace, our competitors will increasingly consist of nationally-focused workers' compensation managed care service companies, insurance companies, HMOs and other significant providers of managed care products. Legislative reform in some states has been considered, but not enacted to permit employers to designate health plans such as HMOs and PPOs to cover workers' compensation claimants. Because many health plans have the ability to manage medical costs for workers' compensation claimants, such legislation may intensify competition in the markets served by us. Many of our current and potential competitors are significantly larger and have greater financial and marketing resources than we do, and there can be no assurance that we will continue to maintain our existing customers, maintain our past level of operating performance, or be successful with any new products or in any new geographical markets we may enter.. A breach of security may cause our customers to curtail or stop using our services.. We rely largely on our own security systems, confidentiality procedures, and employee nondisclosure agreements to maintain the privacy and security of our and our customers' proprietary information. Accidental or willful security breaches or other unauthorized access by third parties to our information systems, the existence of computer viruses in our data or software and misappropriation of our proprietary information could expose us to a risk of information loss, litigation, and other possible liabilities which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If security measures are breached because of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance, or otherwise, or if design flaws in our software are exposed and exploited, and, as a result, a third party obtains unauthorized access to any customer data, our relationships with our customers and our reputation will be damaged, our business may suffer, and we could incur significant liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures.. Exposure to possible litigation and legal liability may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We, through our utilization management services, make recommendations concerning the appropriateness of providers' medical treatment plans of patients throughout the country, and as a result, could be exposed to claims for adverse medical consequences. We do not grant or deny claims for payment of benefits and we do not believe that we engage in the practice of medicine or the delivery of medical services. There can be no assurance, however, that we will not be subject to claims or litigation related to the authorization or denial of claims for payment of benefits or allegations that we engage in the practice of medicine or the delivery of medical services.. 13. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to other litigation that may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, including but not limited to being joined in litigation brought against our customers in the managed care industry. We maintain professional liability insurance and such other coverages as we believe are reasonable in light of our experience to date. If such insurance is insufficient or unavailable in the future at reasonable cost to protect us from liability, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected.. If lawsuits against us are successful, we may incur significant liabilities.. We provide to insurers and other payors of healthcare costs managed care programs that utilize preferred provider organizations and computerized bill review programs. Health care providers have brought, against us and our customers, individual and class action lawsuits challenging such programs. If such lawsuits are successful, we may incur significant liabilities.. We make recommendations about the appropriateness of providers' proposed medical treatment plans for patients throughout the country. As a result, we could be subject to claims arising from any adverse medical consequences. Although plaintiffs have not, to date, subjected us to any claims or litigation relating to the granting or denial of claims for payment of benefits or allegations that we engage in the practice of medicine or the delivery of medical services, we cannot assure you that plaintiffs will not make such claims in future litigation. We also cannot assure you that our insurance will provide sufficient coverage or that insurance companies will make insurance available at a reasonable cost to protect us from significant future liability.. If the utilization by healthcare payors of early intervention services continues to increase, the revenue from our later-stage network and healthcare management services could be negatively affected.. The performance of early intervention services, including injury occupational healthcare, first notice of loss, and telephonic case management services, often result in a decrease in the average length of, and the total costs associated with, a healthcare claim. By successfully intervening at an early stage in a claim, the need for additional cost containment services for that claim often can be reduced or even eliminated. As healthcare payors continue to increase their utilization of early intervention services, the revenue from our later stage network and healthcare management services will decrease.. An interruption in our ability to access critical data may cause customers to cancel their service and/or may reduce our ability to effectively compete.. Certain aspects of our business are dependent upon our ability to store, retrieve, process, and manage data and to maintain and upgrade our data processing capabilities. Interruption of data processing capabilities for any extended length of time, loss of stored data, programming errors or other system failures could cause customers to cancel their service and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. In addition, we expect that a considerable amount of our future growth will depend on our ability to process and manage claims data more efficiently and to provide more meaningful healthcare information to customers and payors of healthcare. There can be no assurance that our current data processing capabilities will be adequate for our future growth, that we will be able to efficiently upgrade our systems to meet future demands, or that we will be able to develop, license or otherwise acquire software to address these market demands as well or as timely as our competitors.. We face competition for staffing, which may increase our labor costs and reduce profitability.. We compete with other healthcare providers in recruiting qualified management and staff personnel for the day-to-day operations of our business, including nurses and other case management professionals. In some markets, the scarcity of nurses and other medical support personnel has become a significant operating issue to healthcare providers. This shortage may require us to enhance wages to recruit and retain qualified nurses and other healthcare professionals. Our failure to recruit and retain qualified management, nurses, and other healthcare professionals, or to control labor costs could have a material adverse effect on profitability.. The increased costs of professional and general liability insurance may have an adverse effect on our profitability.. The cost of commercial professional and general liability insurance coverage has risen significantly in the past several years, and this trend may continue. In addition, if we were to suffer a material loss, our costs may increase over and above the general increases in the industry. If the costs associated with insuring our business continue to increase, it may adversely affect our business. We believe our current level of insurance coverage is adequate for a company of our size engaged in our business.  Additionally, we may have difficulty getting carriers to pay under coverage in certain circumstances.. 14. Changes in government regulations could increase our costs of operations and/or reduce the demand for our services.. Many states, including a number of those in which we transact business, have licensing and other regulatory requirements applicable to our business. Approximately half of the states have enacted laws that require licensing of businesses which provide medical review services such as ours. Some of these laws apply to medical review of care covered by workers' compensation. These laws typically establish minimum standards for qualifications of personnel, confidentiality, internal quality control, and dispute resolution procedures. These regulatory programs may result in increased costs of operation for us, which may have an adverse impact upon our ability to compete with other available alternatives for healthcare cost control. In addition, new laws regulating the operation of managed care provider networks have been adopted by a number of states. These laws may apply to managed care provider networks having contracts with us or to provider networks which we may organize. To the extent we are governed by these regulations, we may be subject to additional licensing requirements, financial and operational oversight and procedural standards for beneficiaries and providers.. Regulation in the healthcare and workers' compensation fields is constantly evolving. We are unable to predict what additional government initiatives, if any, affecting our business may be promulgated in the future. Our business may be adversely affected by failure to comply with existing laws and regulations, failure to obtain necessary licenses and government approvals, or failure to adapt to new or modified regulatory requirements. Proposals for healthcare legislative reforms are regularly considered at the federal and state levels. To the extent that such proposals affect workers' compensation, such proposals may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. In addition, changes in workers' compensation, automobile insurance, and group healthcare laws or regulations may reduce demand for our services, require us to develop new or modified services to meet the demands of the marketplace, or reduce the fees that we may charge for our services.. The introduction of software products incorporating new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing software products less competitive, obsolete, or unmarketable.. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing and marketing new software products that respond to technological changes or evolving industry standards. If we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce new software products cost-effectively, in a timely manner and in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be adversely affected.. Developing or implementing new or updated software products and services may take longer and cost more than expected. We rely on a combination of internal development, strategic relationships, licensing and acquisitions to develop our software products and services. The cost of developing new healthcare information services and technology solutions is inherently difficult to estimate. Our development and implementation of proposed software products and services may take longer than originally expected, require more testing than originally anticipated and require the acquisition of additional personnel and other resources. If we are unable to develop new or updated software products and services cost-effectively on a timely basis and implement them without significant disruptions to the existing systems and processes of our customers, we may lose potential sales and harm our relationships with current or potential customers.. The failure to attract and retain qualified or key personnel may prevent us from effectively developing, marketing, selling, integrating, and supporting our services.. We are dependent, to a substantial extent, upon the continuing efforts and abilities of certain key management personnel. In addition, we face competition for experienced employees with professional expertise in the workers' compensation managed care area. The loss of key personnel, especially V. Gordon Clemons, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Michael Combs, our President, or the inability to attract qualified employees, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. 15. If we lose several customers in a short period, our results may be materially adversely affected.. Our results may decline if we lose several customers during a short period. Most of our customer contracts permit either party to terminate without cause. If several customers terminate, or do not renew or extend their contracts with us, our results could be materially and adversely affected. Many organizations in the insurance industry have consolidated and this could result in the loss of one or more of our customers through a merger or acquisition. Additionally, we could lose customers due to competitive pricing pressures or other reasons.. We are subject to risks associated with acquisitions of intangible assets.. Our acquisition of other businesses may result in significant increases in our intangible assets and goodwill. We regularly evaluate whether events and circumstances have occurred indicating that any portion of our intangible assets and goodwill may not be recoverable. When factors indicate that intangible assets and goodwill should be evaluated for possible impairment, we may be required to reduce the carrying value of these assets. We cannot currently estimate the timing and amount of any such charges.. If we are unable to leverage our information systems to enhance our outcome-driven service model, our results may be adversely affected.. To leverage our knowledge of workplace injuries, treatment protocols, outcomes data, and complex regulatory provisions related to the workers' compensation market, we must continue to implement and enhance information systems that can analyze our data related to the workers' compensation industry. We frequently upgrade existing operating systems and are updating other information systems that we rely upon in providing our services and financial reporting. We have detailed implementation schedules for these projects that require extensive involvement from our operational, technological, and financial personnel. Delays or other problems we might encounter in implementing these projects could adversely affect our ability to deliver streamlined patient care and outcome reporting to our customers.. Our Internet-based services are dependent on the development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure.. The Internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of damages to portions of its infrastructure, and it could face outages and delays in the future. These outages and delays could reduce the level of Internet usage, as well as the availability of the Internet to us for delivery of our Internet-based services. In addition, our customers who use our Web-based services depend on Internet service providers, online service providers, and other website operators for access to our website. All of these providers have experienced significant outages in the past and could experience outages, delays, and other difficulties in the future due to system failures unrelated to our systems. Any significant interruptions in our services or increases in response time could result in a loss of potential or existing users, and, if sustained or repeated, could reduce the attractiveness of our services.. We are sensitive to regional weather conditions that may adversely affect our operations.. Our operations are directly affected in the short term by the weather conditions in certain regions of operation. Therefore our business is sensitive to the weather conditions of these regions. Unusually inclement weather, including significant rain, snow, sleet, freezing rain, or ice can temporarily affect our operations if customers are forced to close operational centers.  Accordingly, our operating results may vary from quarter to quarter, depending on the impact of these weather conditions.. Natural and other disasters may adversely affect our business.. We may be vulnerable to damage from severe weather conditions or natural disasters, including hurricanes, fires, floods, earthquakes, power loss, communications failures, and similar events, including the effects of war or acts of terrorism.  If a disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business could be seriously or completely impaired or destroyed. The insurance we maintain may not be adequate to cover our losses resulting from disasters or other business interruptions.. 16"
