[1] "Item 1A - Risk Factors. Our operations are subject to a number of risks. You should carefully read and consider the following risk factors, together with all other information in this report, in evaluating our business. If any of these risks, or any risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are not significant, develops into an actual event, then our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. If that happens, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.. We depend upon key employees to generate revenue. Our business consists primarily of the delivery of professional services, and, accordingly, our success depends heavily on the efforts, abilities, business generation capabilities, and project execution capabilities of our employee consultants. In particular, our employee consultants' personal relationships with our clients are a critical element in obtaining and maintaining client engagements. If we lose the services of any employee consultant or group of employee consultants, or if our employee consultants fail to generate business or otherwise fail to perform effectively, that loss or failure could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We do not have non-competition agreements with a majority of our employee consultants, and they can terminate their relationships with us at will and without notice. The non-competition and non-solicitation agreements that we have with some of our employee consultants offer us only limited protection and may not be enforceable in every jurisdiction. In the event that an employee leaves, some clients may decide that they prefer to continue working with the employee rather than with us. In the event an employee departs and acts in a way that we believe violates the employee's non-competition or non-solicitation agreement, we will consider any legal remedies we may have against such person on a case-by-case basis. We may decide that preserving cooperation and a professional relationship with the former employee or clients that worked with the employee, or other concerns, outweigh the benefits of any possible legal recovery.. Our business could suffer if we are unable to hire and retain additional qualified consultants as employees. Our business continually requires us to hire highly qualified, highly educated consultants as employees. Our failure to recruit and retain a significant number of qualified employee consultants could limit our ability to accept or complete engagements and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Relatively few potential employees meet our hiring criteria, and we face significant competition for these employees from our direct competitors, academic institutions, government agencies, research firms, investment banking firms, and other enterprises. Many of these competing employers are able to offer potential employees greater compensation and benefits or more attractive. 12. Table of Contents. lifestyle choices, career paths, or geographic locations than we can. Competition for these employee consultants has increased our labor costs, and a continuation of this trend could adversely affect our margins and results of operations.. Maintaining our professional reputation is crucial to our future success. Our ability to secure new engagements and hire qualified consultants as employees depends heavily on our overall reputation as well as the individual reputations of our employee consultants and principal non-employee experts. Because we obtain a majority of our new engagements from existing clients, any client that is dissatisfied with our performance on a single matter could seriously impair our ability to secure new engagements. Given the frequently high-profile nature of the matters on which we work, including work before and on behalf of government agencies, any factor that diminishes our reputation or the reputations of any of our employee consultants or non-employee experts could make it substantially more difficult for us to compete successfully for both new engagements and qualified consultants.. We depend on our non-employee experts. We depend on our relationships with our non-employee experts. We believe that these experts are highly regarded in their fields and that each offers a combination of knowledge, experience, and expertise that would be very difficult to replace. We also believe that we have been able to secure some engagements and attract some consultants in part because we can offer the services of these experts. Most of these experts can limit their relationships with us at any time for any reason. These reasons could include affiliations with universities with policies that prohibit accepting specified engagements, termination of exclusive relationships, the pursuit of other interests, and retirement.. In many cases we seek to include restrictive covenants in our agreements with our non-employee experts, which could include non-competition agreements, non-solicitation agreements and non-hire agreements. The limitation or termination of any of their relationships with us, or competition from any of them after these agreements expire, could harm our reputation, reduce our business opportunities and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. The restrictive covenants that we may have with some of our non-employee experts offer us only limited protection and may not be enforceable in every jurisdiction. In the event that non-employee experts leave, clients working with these non-employee experts may decide that they prefer to continue working with them rather than with us. In the event a non-employee expert departs and acts in a way that we believe violates the expert's restrictive covenants we will consider any legal and equitable remedies we may have against such person on a case-by-case basis. We may decide that preserving cooperation and a professional relationship with the former non-employee expert or clients that worked with the non-employee expert, or other concerns, outweigh the benefits of any possible legal action or recovery.. To meet our long-term growth targets, we need to establish ongoing relationships with additional non-employee experts who have reputations as leading experts in their fields. We may be unable to establish relationships with any additional non-employee experts. In addition, any relationship that we do establish may not help us meet our objectives or generate the revenues or earnings that we anticipate.. Tax law changes may have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") was signed into U.S. law. The Tax Act significantly changes the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The Tax Act, among other things, includes changes to the U.S. corporate tax rate, expands limitations on the deductibility of meals and entertainment, eliminates the exception to the section 162(m) limitation on the deductibility of the compensation paid to certain of our executive officers for \"qualified performance-based compensation,\" allows for the expensing of capital expenditures, the migration from a \"worldwide\" system of taxation to a territorial system, and a one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of cumulative foreign earnings as of December 31, 2017. The overall impact of the Tax Act. 13. Table of Contents. is uncertain, and it may have a material impact on our estimated cash taxes and our net income. We will continue to examine the impact this tax legislation may have on our business as additional guidance is provided. Refer to Note 13, \"Income Taxes,\" of our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of the Tax Act.. Changes in global economic, business and political conditions could have a material adverse impact on our revenues, results of operations, and financial condition. Overall global economic, business and political conditions, as well as conditions specific to the industries we or our clients serve, can affect our clients' businesses and financial condition, their demand or ability to pay for our services, and the market for our services. These conditions, all of which are outside of our control, include merger and acquisition activity levels, the availability, cost and terms of credit, the state of the United States and global financial markets, the levels of litigation and regulatory and administrative investigations and proceedings, and general economic and business conditions. In addition, many of our clients are in highly regulated industries, and regulatory and legislative changes affecting these industries could impact the market for our service offerings, render our current service offerings obsolete, or increase the competition among providers of these services. Although we are not able to predict the positive or negative effects that general changes in global economic, business and political conditions will have on our individual practice areas or our business as a whole, any specific changes in these conditions could have a material adverse impact on our revenues, results of operations and financial condition.. Our results of operations and consequently our business may be adversely affected if we are not able to maintain our current bill rates, compensation costs and/or utilization rate. Our revenues and profitability are largely based on the bill rates charged to our clients, compensation costs and the utilization of our consultants. We calculate utilization by dividing the total hours worked by our employee consultants on engagements during the measurement period by the total number of hours that our employee consultants were available to work during that period. If we are not able to maintain adequate bill rates for our services, maintain compensation costs or obtain appropriate utilization rates from our consultants, our results of operations may be adversely impacted. Bill rates, compensation costs and consultant utilization rates are affected by a number of factors, including:. <U+0095> Our clients' perceptions of our ability to add value through our services;    <U+0095> The market demand for our services;    <U+0095> Our competitors' pricing of services and compensation levels;    <U+0095> The market rate for consultant compensation;    <U+0095> Our ability to redeploy consultants from completed client engagements to new client engagements; and     <U+0095> Our ability to predict future demand for our services and maintain the appropriate staffing levels without significantly underutilizing consultants.. Our revenues, operating results and cash flows are likely to fluctuate. We experience fluctuations in our revenues, operating results and cash flows and expect that they will continue to occur in the future due to factors that are either within or outside of our control, including, but not limited to, the timing and duration of our client engagements, utilization of our employee consultants, the types of engagements we are working on at different times, the geographic locations of our clients or where the services are rendered, the length of billing and collection cycles, hiring, business and capital expenditures, share repurchases, dividends, debt repayments, and other general economic factors. We may also experience future fluctuations in our cash flows from operations because of increases in employee compensation, including changes to our incentive compensation. 14. Table of Contents. structure and the timing of incentive payments, which we generally pay during the first quarter of each year, or hiring or retention payments or bonuses which are paid throughout the year. Also, the timing of future acquisitions and other investments and the cost of integrating them may cause fluctuations in our operating results and related cash flows.. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. We are required to prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America, which may change periodically. From time to time, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission. A change in accounting standards or practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. It may also require changes to the current accounting treatment of certain transactions and the way they are reported in our financial statements. Additionally, such a change in accounting standards or practices may require us to enhance our internal accounting systems and processes, as well as our internal control over financial reporting. In order to comply with the requirements of the new revenue recognition standard under Accounting Standards Codification 606, which we adopted effective December 31, 2017, we have been updating and enhancing our internal accounting systems and processes and our internal control over financial reporting. This has required, and will continue to require, additional investments by us, and may require incremental resources and system configurations that could increase our operating costs in future periods. Further, the interpretation and application of ASC 606 will likely evolve over time, which could adversely impact our financial results (including potentially results reported prior to such evolution) and require changes to our disclosures and internal systems, processes, and controls.. Our failure to execute our business strategy or manage future growth successfully could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Any failure on our part to execute our business strategy or manage future growth successfully could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. In the future, we could open offices in new geographic areas, including foreign locations, and expand our employee base as a result of internal growth and acquisitions. Opening and managing new offices often requires extensive management supervision and increases our overall selling, general, and administrative expenses. Expansion creates new and increased management, consulting, and training responsibilities for our employee consultants. Expansion also increases the demands on our internal systems, procedures, and controls, and on our managerial, administrative, financial, marketing, and other resources. We depend heavily upon the managerial, operational, and administrative skills of our executive officers to manage our expansion and business strategy. New responsibilities and demands may adversely affect the overall quality of our work.. Competition from other litigation, regulatory, financial, and management consulting firms could hurt our business. The market for litigation, regulatory, financial, and management consulting services is intensely competitive, highly fragmented, and subject to rapid change. We may be unable to compete successfully with our existing competitors or with any new competitors. In general, there are few barriers to entry into our markets, and we expect to face additional competition from new entrants into the economic and management consulting industries. In the litigation, regulatory, and financial consulting markets, we compete primarily with other economic and financial consulting firms and individual academics. In the management consulting market, we compete primarily with other business and management consulting firms, specialized or industry-specific consulting firms, the consulting practices of large accounting firms, and the internal professional resources of existing and potential clients. Many of our competitors have national or international reputations, as well as significantly greater personnel, financial, managerial, technical, and marketing resources than we do, which could enhance their ability to respond more. 15. Table of Contents. quickly to technological changes, finance acquisitions, and fund internal growth. Some of our competitors also have a significantly broader geographic presence and significantly more resources than we do.. Clients can terminate engagements with us at any time. Many of our engagements depend upon disputes, proceedings, or transactions that involve our clients. Our clients may decide at any time to seek to resolve the dispute or proceeding, abandon the transaction, or file for bankruptcy. Our engagements can therefore terminate suddenly and without advance notice to us. If an engagement is terminated unexpectedly, our employee consultants working on the engagement could be underutilized until we assign them to other projects. In addition, because much of our work is project-based rather than recurring in nature, our consultants' utilization depends on our ability to secure additional engagements on a continual basis. Accordingly, the termination or significant reduction in the scope of a single large engagement could reduce our utilization and have an immediate adverse impact on our revenues and results of operations.. Information or technology systems failures, or a cybersecurity attack or other compromise of our or our client's confidential or proprietary information, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and results of operations. We rely upon information and technology infrastructure and systems to operate, manage and run our business and to provide services to our clients. This includes infrastructure and systems for receiving, storing, hosting, analyzing, transmitting and securing our and our clients' sensitive, confidential or proprietary information, including, but not limited to, health and other personally-identifiable information and commercial, financial and consumer data. Our ability to secure and maintain the confidentiality and integrity of this information is critical to our reputation and the success of our businesses. We must comply with the privacy laws of all of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including the newly adopted strict general data privacy regulation (GDPR) in the European Union, and these laws are becoming increasingly complex and vary by jurisdiction. The costs of complying with these laws and any fines resulting from lack of compliance, and the other costs of protecting our and our clients' confidential information, could have a material effect on our financial results. In addition, we may be affected by or subject to events that are out of our control, including, but not limited to, cybersecurity or other malicious attacks, which continue to evolve and pose a constant risk, unauthorized system intrusions by unknown third parties, viruses, malicious software, worms, failures in our or our third party hosting sites' (whether hosted offsite or in the cloud) information and technology systems, disruptions in the Internet or electricity grids, natural disasters, and terrorism. Any of these events could disrupt our or our client's business operations or cause us or our clients to incur unanticipated losses, including the costs of investigating and remediating any such event and any fines related thereto, as well as reputational damage, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. In addition, our or our clients' sensitive, confidential or proprietary information could be compromised or corrupted, whether intentionally or unintentionally, by our employees, outside consultants, vendors, or rogue third-party \"hackers\" or enterprises. A breach or compromise of the security of our information technology systems or infrastructure, or our processes for securing sensitive, confidential or proprietary information, whether due to a cybersecurity attack or otherwise, could result in the loss or misuse of this information. Any such loss or misuse could result in our suffering claims, fines, damages, losses or reputational damage, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Potential conflicts of interests may preclude us from accepting some engagements. We provide our services primarily in connection with significant or complex transactions, disputes, or other matters that are usually adversarial or that involve sensitive client information. Our engagement by a client may preclude us from accepting engagements with the client's competitors or. 16. Table of Contents. adversaries because of conflicts between their business interests or positions on disputed issues or other reasons. Accordingly, the nature of our business limits the number of both potential clients and potential engagements. Moreover, in many industries in which we provide consulting services, such as in the telecommunications industry, there has been a continuing trend toward business consolidations and strategic alliances. These consolidations and alliances reduce the number of potential clients for our services and increase the chances that we will be unable to continue some of our ongoing engagements or accept new engagements as a result of conflicts of interests.. We derive revenue from a limited number of large engagements. We derive a portion of our revenues from a limited number of large engagements. If we do not obtain a significant number of new large engagements each year, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could suffer. In general, the volume of work we perform for any particular client varies from year to year, and due to the specific engagement nature of our practice, a major client in one year may not hire us in the following year.. Our international operations create risks. Our international operations carry financial and business risks, including:. <U+0095> currency fluctuations that could adversely affect our financial position and operating results;    <U+0095> unexpected changes in trading policies, regulatory requirements, tariffs, and other barriers;    <U+0095> restrictions on the repatriation of earnings;    <U+0095> potentially adverse tax consequences, such as trapped foreign losses or changes in statutory tax rates;     <U+0095> the impact of differences in the governmental, legal and regulatory environment in foreign jurisdictions, as well as U.S. laws and regulations related to our foreign operations;    <U+0095> less stable political and economic environments; and    <U+0095> civil disturbances or other catastrophic events that reduce business activity.. If our international revenues increase relative to our total revenues, these factors could have a more pronounced effect on our operating results.. Our entry into new lines of business could adversely affect our results of operations. If we attempt to develop new practice areas or lines of business outside our core litigation, regulatory, financial, and management consulting services, those efforts could harm our results of operations. Our efforts in new practice areas or new lines of business involve inherent risks, including risks associated with inexperience and competition from mature participants in the markets we enter. Our inexperience in these new practice areas or lines of business may result in costly decisions that could harm our business.. Fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and results of operations could depress the market price of our common stock. We may experience significant fluctuations in our revenues and results of operations from one quarter to the next. If our revenues or net income in a quarter fall or fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock could fall significantly. Our results of operations in any quarter can fluctuate for many reasons, including:. <U+0095> our ability to implement rate increases or maintain rates;    <U+0095> the number, scope, and timing of ongoing client engagements;. 17. Table of Contents. <U+0095> the extent to which we can reassign our employee consultants efficiently from one engagement to the next;     <U+0095> the extent to which our employee consultants or clients take holiday, vacation, and sick time, including traditional seasonality related to summer vacation and holiday schedules;    <U+0095> employee hiring;    <U+0095> the extent of revenue realization or cost overruns;    <U+0095> fluctuations in our provision for income taxes due to changes in income arising in various tax jurisdictions, valuation allowances, non-deductible expenses, and changes in estimates of our uncertain tax positions;    <U+0095> fluctuations in interest rates;    <U+0095> currency fluctuations; and    <U+0095> collectability of receivables and unbilled work in process.. Because we generate most of our revenues from consulting services that we provide on an hourly fee basis, our revenues in any period are directly related to the number of our employee consultants, their billing rates, and the number of billable hours they work in that period. We have a limited ability to increase any of these factors in the short term. Accordingly, if we underutilize our consultants during one part of a fiscal period, we may be unable to compensate by augmenting revenues during another part of that period. In addition, we are occasionally unable to utilize fully any additional consultants that we hire, particularly in the quarter in which we hire them. Moreover, a significant majority of our operating expenses, primarily office rent and salaries, are fixed in the short term. As a result, any failure of our revenues to meet our projections in any quarter could have a disproportionate adverse effect on our net income. For these reasons, we believe our historical results of operations are not necessarily indicative of our future performance.. Our engagements may result in professional liability and we may be subject to other litigation, claims or assessments. Our services typically involve difficult analytical assignments and carry risks of professional and other liability. Many of our engagements involve matters that could have a severe impact on a client's business, and cause the client to lose significant amounts of money, or prevent the client from pursuing desirable business opportunities. Accordingly, if a client is dissatisfied with our performance, the client could threaten or bring litigation in order to recover damages or to contest its obligation to pay our fees. Litigation alleging that we performed negligently, disclosed client confidential information, or otherwise breached our obligations to the client could expose us to significant liabilities to our clients and other third parties and tarnish our reputation.. Despite our efforts to prevent litigation, from time to time we are party to various lawsuits, claims, or assessments in the ordinary course of business. Disputes may arise, for example, from business acquisitions, employment issues, regulatory actions, and other business transactions. The costs and outcome of any lawsuits or claims could have a material adverse effect on us.. Acquisitions may disrupt our operations or adversely affect our results. We regularly evaluate opportunities to acquire other businesses. The expenses we incur evaluating and pursuing acquisitions could adversely affect our results of operations. If we acquire a business, we may be unable to manage it profitably or successfully integrate its operations with our own. Moreover, we may be unable to realize the financial, operational, and other benefits we anticipate from these acquisitions or any other acquisition. Many potential acquisition targets do not meet our criteria, and, for those that do, we face significant competition for these acquisitions from our direct competitors, private equity funds, and other enterprises. Competition for future acquisition opportunities in our markets could increase the price we pay for businesses we acquire and could reduce the number of. 18. Table of Contents. potential acquisition targets. Further, acquisitions may involve a number of special financial and business risks, such as:. <U+0095> diversion of our management's time, attention, and resources;    <U+0095> decreased utilization during the integration process;    <U+0095> loss of key acquired personnel;    <U+0095> increased costs to improve or coordinate managerial, operational, financial, and administrative systems, including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002;    <U+0095> dilutive issuances of equity securities, including convertible debt securities;    <U+0095> the assumption of legal liabilities;    <U+0095> amortization of acquired intangible assets;    <U+0095> potential write-offs related to the impairment of goodwill, including if our enterprise value declines below certain levels;     <U+0095> difficulties in integrating diverse corporate cultures; and    <U+0095> additional conflicts of interests.. Our clients may be unable or unwilling to pay us for our services. Our clients include some companies that may from time to time encounter financial difficulties, particularly during a downward trend in the economy, or may dispute the services we provide. If a client's financial difficulties become severe or a dispute arises, the client may be unwilling or unable to pay our invoices in the ordinary course of business, which could adversely affect collections of both our accounts receivable and unbilled services. On occasion, some of our clients have entered bankruptcy, which has prevented us from collecting amounts owed to us. The bankruptcy of a client with a substantial accounts receivable could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Historically, a small number of clients who have paid sizable invoices have later declared bankruptcy, and a court determination that we were not properly entitled to any of those payments may result in repayment by us of some or all of them, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Additionally, from time to time, we may derive a significant amount of revenue from contracts with government agencies in the United States. Because of this, changes in federal government budgetary priorities could directly affect our financial performance. This could result in the cancellation of contracts and/or the incurrence of substantial costs without reimbursement under our contracts with the federal government, which could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated widely and may continue to do so. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to rise and fall. Some of these factors are:. <U+0095> variations in our quarterly results of operations;    <U+0095> changes in quarterly dividends;    <U+0095> the hiring or departure of key personnel or non-employee experts;    <U+0095> changes in our professional reputation;    <U+0095> the introduction of new services by us or our competitors;    <U+0095> acquisitions or strategic alliances involving us or our competitors;. 19. Table of Contents. <U+0095> changes in accounting principles or methods or issues with our internal control over financial reporting;     <U+0095> changes in estimates of our performance or recommendations by securities analysts;    <U+0095> future sales of shares of common stock in the public market; and    <U+0095> market conditions in the industry and the economy as a whole.. In addition, the stock market often experiences significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations are often unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. When the market price of a company's stock drops significantly, shareholders often institute securities class action litigation against that company. Any litigation against us could cause us to incur substantial costs, divert the time and attention of our management and other resources, or otherwise harm our business.. Our performance could be affected if employees and non-employee experts default on loans. We utilize forgivable loans and term loans with some of our employees and non-employee experts, other than our executive officers, as a way to attract and retain them. A portion of these loans is collateralized. Defaults under these loans could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated statements of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. Fluctuations in the types of service contracts we enter into may adversely impact revenue and results of operations. We derive a portion of our revenues from fixed-price contracts. These contracts are more common in our management consulting area, and would likely grow in number with expansion of that area. Fluctuations in the mix between time-and-material contracts, fixed-price contracts and arrangements with fees tied to performance-based criteria may result in fluctuations of revenue and results of operations. In addition, if we fail to estimate accurately the resources required for a fixed-price project or fail to satisfy our contractual obligations in a manner consistent with the project budget, we might generate a smaller profit or incur a loss on the project. On occasion, we have had to commit unanticipated additional resources to complete projects, and we may have to take similar action in the future, which could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.. There can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends at all or in any particular amounts. Our board of directors declared the first quarterly dividend on our common stock during 2016 and we have continued to pay quarterly dividends throughout fiscal 2017. Although we anticipate paying regular quarterly dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future, the declaration of dividends is subject to the discretion of our board of directors, and is restricted by applicable state law limitations on distributions to shareholders. As a result, the amount, if any, of the dividends to be paid by us in the future depends upon a number of factors, including but not limited to our available cash on hand, anticipated cash needs, overall financial condition, and future prospects for earnings and cash flows, as well as other factors considered relevant by our board of directors. In addition, our board of directors may also suspend the payment of dividends at any time. Any reduction or suspension in our dividend payments could adversely affect the price of our common stock.. Our stock repurchase programs could affect the market price of our common stock and increase its volatility. Our board of directors has from time to time authorized repurchase programs of our outstanding common stock. Under these stock repurchase programs, we are authorized to repurchase, from time-to-time, shares of our outstanding common stock on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. The timing and amount of stock repurchases are determined based upon our evaluation of market conditions and other factors. Any stock repurchase program may be suspended, modified or discontinued at any time, and we have no obligation to repurchase any amount of our common stock. 20. Table of Contents. under any program. Repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase programs could affect the market price of our common stock and increase its volatility. Any termination of one of our stock repurchase programs could cause a decrease in the market price of our common stock price, and the existence of a stock repurchase program could cause our stock price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity of our common stock. There can be no assurance that any stock repurchases under these programs will enhance stockholder value because the market price of our common stock may decline below the levels at which those repurchases were made. Although our stock repurchase programs are intended to enhance long-term stockholder value, short-term fluctuations in the market price of our common stock could reduce the programs' effectiveness.. We may need to take material write-offs for the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, including if our market capitalization declines. As further described in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are monitored annually for impairment, or more frequently, if events or circumstances exist that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. In performing the first step of the goodwill impairment testing and measurement process, we compare the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units to its net book value to identify potential impairment. We estimate the fair value of our consulting business utilizing our market capitalization, plus an appropriate control premium, and for fiscal years prior to 2016, less the estimated fair value of GNU. Market capitalization is determined by multiplying the shares outstanding on the test date by the market price of our common stock on that date. We determine the control premium utilizing data from publicly available premium studies for the trailing four quarters for public company transactions in our industry group. If the estimated fair value of a reporting unit is less than its net book value, the second step is performed to determine if goodwill is impaired. If through the impairment evaluation process a reporting unit determines that goodwill has been impaired, an impairment charge would be recorded in our consolidated income statement.. A goodwill impairment charge in any period would have the effect of decreasing our earnings in such period. If we are required to take a substantial impairment charge, our reported operating results would be materially adversely affected in such period, though such a charge would have no impact on cash flows or working capital.. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, result in material misstatements in our financial statements. We are responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over our financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act. As disclosed in Item 9A, we identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a result of these material weaknesses, we concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective based on criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organization of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control - An Integrated Framework (2013).. To implement remedial measures, we may need to commit additional resources, hire additional staff, and provide additional management oversight. If our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weaknesses, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements, and we could be required to restate our financial results. In addition, if we are unable to successfully remediate these material weaknesses and if we are unable to produce accurate and timely financial statements, our stock price may be adversely. 21. Table of Contents. affected and we may be unable to maintain compliance with applicable stock exchange listing requirements.. Our debt obligations may adversely impact our financial performance. We rely on our cash and cash equivalents, cash flows from operations and borrowings under our credit agreement to fund our short-term and anticipated long-term operating activities. We have a revolving line of credit with our bank for $125.0 million. The amounts available under this line of credit are constrained by various financial covenants and reduced by certain letters of credit outstanding. Our loan agreement with the bank will mature on October 24, 2022. At December 30, 2017, we had no borrowings outstanding under the credit agreement and approximately $121.4 million available for future borrowings, after consideration of outstanding letters of credit. The degree to which we are leveraged could adversely affect our ability to obtain further financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes and could make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures. Our ability to secure short-term and long-term debt or equity financing in the future will depend on several factors, including our future profitability, the levels of our debt and equity, restrictions under our existing revolving line of credit, and the overall credit and equity market environments.. We could incur substantial costs protecting our proprietary rights from infringement or defending against a claim of infringement. As a professional services organization, we rely on non-competition and non-solicitation agreements with many of our employees and non-employee experts to protect our proprietary rights. These agreements, however, may offer us only limited protection and may not be enforceable in every jurisdiction. In addition, we may incur substantial costs trying to enforce these agreements.. Our services may involve the development of custom business processes or solutions for specific clients. In some cases, the clients retain ownership or impose restrictions on our ability to use the business processes or solutions developed from these projects. Issues relating to the ownership of business processes or solutions can be complicated, and disputes could arise that affect our ability to resell or reuse business processes or solutions we develop for clients.. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the U.S. involving patents and other intellectual property rights. We could incur substantial costs in prosecuting or defending any intellectual property litigation, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our proprietary rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Any such resulting litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Any failure by us to protect our proprietary rights, or any court determination that we have either infringed or lost ownership of proprietary rights, could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. Insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our profitability. We are exposed to claims related to group health insurance. We self-insure a portion of the risk associated with these claims. If the number or severity of claims increases, or we are required to accrue or pay additional amounts because the claims prove to be more severe than our original assessment, our operating results would be adversely affected. Our future insurance and claims expense might exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. We expect to periodically assess our self-insurance strategy. We are required to periodically evaluate and adjust our claims reserves to reflect our experience. However, ultimate results may differ from our estimates, which could result in losses over our reserved amounts. We maintain individual and aggregate medical plan stop loss. 22. Table of Contents. insurance with licensed insurance carriers to limit our ultimate risk exposure for any one case and for our total liability.. Many businesses are experiencing the impact of increased medical costs as well as greater variability in ongoing costs. As a result, our insurance and claims expense could increase, or we could raise our self-insured retention, when our policies are renewed. If these expenses increase or we experience a claim for which coverage is not provided, results of our operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. Our charter and by-laws, and Massachusetts law may deter takeovers. Our articles of organization and by-laws and Massachusetts law contain provisions that could have anti-takeover effects and that could discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control or an acquisition that our shareholders may find attractive. These provisions may also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our shareholders to take some corporate actions, including the election of directors. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock."
