[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following is a description of what we consider the key challenges and risks confronting our business. This discussion should be considered in conjunction with the discussion under the caption \"Forward-Looking Information\" preceding Part I, the information set forth under Item 1, \"Business\" and with the discussion of the business included in Part II, Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\" These risks comprise the material risks of which we are aware. If any of the events or developments described below or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or in any documents that we subsequently file publicly were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Risks Relating to Our Business. We are subject to numerous lawsuits for asbestos-related personal injury, and costs associated with these lawsuits may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial position.. We are subject to numerous lawsuits for asbestos-related personal injury. Estimation of our ultimate exposure for asbestos-related claims is subject to significant uncertainties, as there are multiple variables that can affect the timing, severity and quantity of claims. Our estimate of the future expense of these claims is derived from assumptions with respect to future claims, settlement and defense costs which are based on experience during the last few years and which may not prove reliable as predictors. A significant upward or downward trend in the number of claims filed, depending on the nature of the alleged injury, the jurisdiction where filed and the quality of the product identification, or a significant upward or downward trend in the costs of defending claims, could change the estimated liability, as would substantial adverse verdicts at trial or on appeal. A legislative solution or a structured settlement transaction could also change the estimated liability. These uncertainties may result in our incurring future charges or increases to income to adjust the carrying value of recorded liabilities and assets, particularly if the number of claims and settlements and defense costs escalates or if legislation or another alternative solution is implemented; however, we are currently unable to predict such future events. The resolution of these claims may take many years, and the effect our results of operations, cash flow and financial position in any given period from a revision to these estimates could be material.. As of December 31, 2017, we were one of a number of defendants in cases involving 32,234 pending claims filed in various state and federal courts that allege injury or death as a result of exposure to asbestos. See Part II, Item 8 under Note 11, \"Commitments and Contingencies,\" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on:. • Our pending claims;. • Our historical settlement and defense costs for asbestos claims;. • The liability we have recorded in our financial statements for pending and reasonably anticipated asbestos claims through 2059;. • The asset we have recorded in our financial statements related to our estimated insurance coverage for asbestos claims; and. • Uncertainties related to our net asbestos liability.. In the fourth quarter of 2016, we updated and extended the estimate of our asbestos liability and recorded a pre-tax charge of $192 million ($125 million after tax). Our updated liability estimate is for pending and reasonably anticipated asbestos claims through the generally accepted end point of such claims in 2059.  Due to uncertainties in the tort system, as well as uncertainties inherent in the estimation process, future reviews may result in adjustments to our total asbestos-related liability.  The aggregate liability was $605 million as of December 31, 2017.. Macroeconomic fluctuations may harm our business, results of operations and stock price.. Our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected by changes in global economic conditions and geopolitical risks, including credit market conditions, levels of consumer and business confidence, commodity prices, exchange rates, levels of government spending and deficits, political conditions and other challenges that could affect the global economy. These economic conditions could affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways.  Such conditions could have an adverse impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions and on our ability to fund our operations or refinance maturing debt balances at economically favorable interest rates. In addition, restrictions on credit availability could adversely affect the ability of our customers to obtain financing for significant purchases and could result in decreases in or cancellation of orders for our products and services as well as impact the ability of our customers to make payments.  Similarly, credit restrictions may adversely affect our supplier base and increase the potential for one or more of our suppliers to experience financial distress or bankruptcy.  See \"Specific Risks Related to Our Business Segments\".. Page 8. Demand for our products is variable and subject to factors beyond our control, which could result in unanticipated events significantly impacting our results of operations.. A substantial portion of our sales is concentrated in industries that are cyclical in nature or subject to market conditions which may cause customer demand for our products to be volatile. These industries often are subject to fluctuations in domestic and international economies as well as to currency fluctuations and inflationary pressures. Reductions in demand by these industries would reduce the sales and profitability of the affected business segments. Our Fluid Handling business is dependent on global economic conditions, customer capital spending and commodity prices.  Deterioration in any of these economic factors could result in sales and profits falling below our current outlook. Results at our Payment & Merchandising Technologies segment could be affected by sustained weakness in certain geographic markets such as China or certain end markets such as gaming, retail or banking, as well as low employment levels, office occupancy rates and factors affecting vending operator profitability such as higher fuel, food and equipment financing costs; results could also be impacted by unforeseen advances in payment processing technologies.  In addition, our results in this segment are subject to significant variability due to the timing and size of contract awards by central banks for banknote production.  In our Aerospace & Electronics segment, a significant decline in demand for air travel, or a decline in airline profitability generally, could result in reduced orders for aircraft and could also cause airlines to reduce their purchases of repair parts from our businesses. In addition, our Aerospace & Electronics segment could also be impacted to the extent that major aircraft manufacturers encountered production problems, or if pricing pressure from aircraft customers caused the manufacturers to press their suppliers to lower prices and/or extend payment terms; in addition, demand for military and defense products is dependent upon government spending, which remains uncertain. In our Engineered Materials segment, sales and profits could be affected by declines in demand for truck trailers, RVs, or building products; results could also be impacted by unforeseen capacity constraints or price increases related to certain raw materials, in particular, resin.. We may be unable to identify or to complete acquisitions, or to successfully integrate the businesses we acquire.. We have evaluated, and expect to continue to evaluate, a wide array of potential acquisition transactions. Our acquisition program attempts to address the potential risks inherent in assessing the value, strengths, weaknesses, contingent or other liabilities, systems of internal control and potential profitability of acquisition candidates, as well as other challenges such as retaining the employees and integrating the operations of the businesses we acquire.  Integrating acquired operations, such as our 2018 acquisition of Crane Currency, involves significant risks and uncertainties, including:. • Maintenance of uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures;. • Diversion of management's attention from normal business operations during the integration process;. • Unplanned expenses associated with the integration efforts;. • Inability to achieve planned facility repositioning savings or related efficiencies from recent and ongoing investments in our Malta facility; and. • Unidentified issues not discovered in the due diligence process, including legal contingencies. There can be no assurance that suitable acquisition opportunities will be available in the future, that we will continue to acquire businesses or that any business acquired will be integrated successfully or prove profitable, which could adversely impact our growth rate. Our ability to achieve our growth goals depends in part upon our ability to identify and successfully acquire and integrate companies and businesses at appropriate prices and realize anticipated cost savings.. Our operations expose us to the risk of environmental liabilities, costs, litigation and violations that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and reputation.. Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which they operate, which impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the ground, air and water and establish standards for the generation, treatment, use, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. We must also comply with various health and safety regulations in the U.S. and abroad in connection with our operations. Failure to comply with any of these laws could result in civil and criminal liability, monetary and non-monetary penalties and damage to our reputation. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that our costs related to remedial efforts or alleged environmental damage associated with past or current waste disposal practices or other hazardous materials handling practices will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. For example, in 2014, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency issued a Record of Decision amendment requiring, among other things, additional source area remediation resulting in us recording a charge of $49 million pertaining to the Phoenix-Goodyear Airport North Superfund Site (the \"Goodyear Site\"), extending the accrued costs through 2022.  The total estimated gross liability was $41 million as of December 31, 2017, of which we have recorded a receivable of $9 million for the expected reimbursements from the U.S. Government in respect of the aggregate liability as at that date.. Page 9. Additional tax expense or exposures could affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and various international jurisdictions.  Our future results of operations could be affected by changes in our effective tax rate and/or cash paid for income taxes as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in tax laws, regulations and judicial rulings, including the recently enacted Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"TCJA\"). In addition, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the amount of earnings permanently reinvested offshore, and the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns could also have an effect on our financial conditions, results of operations and cash flow.. Enactment of the TCJA on December 22, 2017 brought significant changes to existing U.S. federal corporate income tax laws, including the reduction of the federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, modifying how distributions from our foreign subsidiaries are taxed in the U.S., and imposing a one-time tax on cumulative undistributed foreign earnings.  The ultimate impact of the TCJA may differ from our provisional estimates due to changes in interpretations and assumptions made by us, as well as the issuance of further regulations or guidance by U.S. regulatory and standard-setting bodies.  In addition, uncertainty exists as to how U.S. states and other countries within which we operate will react to the changes brought about by the TCJA.  Any significant changes to our provisional estimates resulting from these items may result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. Our businesses are subject to extensive governmental regulation; failure to comply with those regulations could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and reputation.. We are required to comply with various import and export control laws, which may affect our transactions with certain customers, particularly in our Aerospace & Electronics, Fluid Handling and Payment & Merchandising Technology segments, as discussed more fully under \"Specific Risks Relating to Our Business Segments\".  In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies, and in other circumstances we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting the controlled item.  A failure to comply with these requirements might result in suspension of these contracts and suspension or debarment from government contracting or subcontracting.  In addition, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, or securing any improper advantage.  We are also subject to the anti-bribery laws of other jurisdictions.  Failure to comply with any of these regulations could result in civil and criminal liability, monetary and non-monetary penalties, fines, disruptions to our business, limitations on our ability to export products and services, and damage to our reputation.. The prices of our raw materials could fluctuate dramatically, which may adversely affect our profitability.. The costs of certain raw materials that are critical to our profitability are volatile. This volatility can have a significant impact on our profitability.   The costs in our Engineered Materials segment are affected by fluctuations in the price of resin, with lesser exposure to other input costs. The costs in our Fluid Handling, Payment & Merchandising Technologies and Aerospace & Electronics segments are affected by fluctuations in the price of cotton, flax and metals such as steel and copper.  While we have taken actions aimed at securing an adequate supply of raw materials at prices which are favorable to us, if the prices of critical raw materials increase, our operating costs could be negatively affected.. Our ability to source parts and raw materials from our suppliers is uncertain, and any disruptions or delays in our supply chain could negatively affect our results of operations.. Our operations require significant amounts of necessary parts and raw materials. We are engaged in a continuous, company-wide effort to source our parts and raw materials from fewer suppliers, and to obtain parts from suppliers in low-cost countries where possible. If we are unable to source these parts or raw materials, our operations may be disrupted, or we could experience a delay or halt in certain of our manufacturing operations. We believe that our supply management and production practices are based on an appropriate balancing of the foreseeable risks and the costs of alternative practices. Nonetheless, supplier capacity constraints, supplier production disruptions, supplier financial condition, increases in duties and tariff costs, price volatility or the unavailability of some raw materials could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.. We could face potential product liability or warranty claims, we may not accurately estimate costs related to such claims, and we may not have sufficient insurance coverage available to cover such claims.. Our products are used in a wide variety of commercial applications and certain residential applications. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability or other claims in the event our products are alleged to be defective or that the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in harm to others or to property. We may in the future incur liability if product liability lawsuits against us are successful. Moreover, any such lawsuits, whether or not successful, could result in adverse publicity to us, which could cause our sales to decline.. Page 10. In addition, consistent with industry practice, we provide warranties on many of our products and we may experience costs of warranty or breach of contract claims if our products have defects in manufacture or design or they do not meet contractual specifications. We estimate our future warranty costs based on historical trends and product sales, but we may fail to accurately estimate those costs and thereby fail to establish adequate warranty reserves for them.. We maintain insurance coverage to protect us against product liability claims, but that coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims that may arise or we may not be able to maintain adequate insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost. Any liabilities not covered by insurance or that exceed our established reserves could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. We may be unable to improve productivity, reduce costs and align manufacturing capacity with customer demand.. We are committed to continuous productivity improvement, and we continue to evaluate opportunities to reduce costs, simplify or improve global processes, and increase the reliability of order fulfillment and satisfaction of customer needs. In order to operate more efficiently and control costs, from time to time we execute restructuring activities, which include workforce reductions and facility consolidations. For example, we recorded a pre-tax restructuring charge, net of gain on property sale, of $13 million in 2017 associated with broad-based repositioning actions designed to improve profitability.  Together with additional restructuring costs of approximately $17 million, we expect to achieve $30 million in annualized savings by 2020.  While these are proactive actions to increase our productivity and operating effectiveness, our failure to respond to potential declines in global demand for our products and services and properly align our cost base could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. We may be unable to successfully develop and introduce new products, which would limit our ability to grow and maintain our competitive position and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. Our growth depends, in part, on continued sales of existing products, as well as the successful development and introduction of new products or technologies, which face the uncertainty of customer acceptance and reaction from competitors. Any delay in the development or launch of a new product could result in our not being the first to market, which could compromise our competitive position. Further, the development and introduction of new products may require us to make investments in specialized personnel and capital equipment, increase marketing efforts and reallocate resources away from other uses. We also may need to modify our systems and strategy in light of new products that we develop. If we are unable to develop and introduce new products in a cost-effective manner or otherwise manage effectively the operations related to new products, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted.. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to protect our intellectual property.. We rely on a combination of trade secrets, patents, trademarks, copyrights and confidentiality procedures to protect our products and technology.  Existing trade secret, patent, trademark and copyright laws offer only limited protection. Our patents could be invalidated or circumvented.  In addition, others may develop substantially equivalent, or superseding proprietary technology, or competitors may offer equivalent non-infringing products in competition with our products, thereby substantially reducing the value of our proprietary rights. The laws of some foreign countries in which our products are or may be manufactured or sold may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. We cannot assure that the steps we take to protect our intellectual property will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology. Our inability to protect our intellectual property could have a negative impact on our operations and financial results.. Pension expense and pension contributions associated with our retirement benefit plans may fluctuate significantly depending upon changes in actuarial assumptions and future market performance of plan assets.. Total pension benefit and pension contributions were $8 million and $13 million, respectively, in 2017.  The costs of our defined benefit pension plans are dependent upon various factors, including rates of return on investment assets, discount rates for future payment obligations, and expected mortality, among other things. In addition, funding requirements for benefit obligations of our pension plans are subject to legislative and other government regulatory actions. Variances in related estimates could have an impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flow.. We face significant competition which may adversely impact our results of operations and financial position in the future.. While we are a principal competitor in most of our markets, all of our markets are highly competitive. The competitors in many of our business segments can be expected in the future to improve technologies, reduce costs and develop and introduce new products.  The ability of our business segments to achieve similar advances will be important to our competitive positions. Competitive pressures, including those discussed above, could cause one or more of our business segments to lose market share or could result in significant price erosion, either of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Page 11. We conduct a substantial portion of our business outside the U.S. and face risks inherent in non-domestic operations.. Net sales and assets related to our operations outside the U.S. were 37% and 36% of our consolidated amounts, respectively, in 2017.  These operations and transactions are subject to the risks associated with conducting business internationally, including the risks of currency fluctuations, slower payment of invoices, adverse trade regulations and possible social, economic and political instability in the countries and regions in which we operate. In addition, we expect that non-U.S. sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily the euro, the British pound, the Canadian dollar and the Japanese yen, could adversely affect our reported results, primarily in our Fluid Handling and Payment & Merchandising Technologies segments, as amounts earned in other countries are translated into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes.. We are dependent on key personnel, and we may not be able to retain our key personnel or hire and retain additional personnel needed for us to sustain and grow our business as planned.. Certain of our business segments and corporate offices are dependent upon highly qualified personnel, and we generally are dependent upon the continued efforts of key management employees. We may have difficulty retaining such personnel or locating and hiring additional qualified personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms could impair our ability to successfully sustain and grow our business, which could impact our results of operations in a materially adverse manner.. If our internal controls are found to be ineffective, our financial results or our stock price may be adversely affected.. We believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place for future periods, including processes related to newly acquired businesses; however, increased risk of internal control breakdowns generally exists in a business environment that is decentralized. In addition, if our internal control over financial reporting is found to be ineffective, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which may adversely affect our stock price.. Failure to maintain the security of our information systems and technology networks, including personally identifiable and other information, non-compliance with our contractual or other legal obligations regarding such information, or a violation of our privacy and security policies with respect to such information, could adversely affect us.. We are dependent on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and, in the normal course of our business, we collect and retain certain types of personally identifiable and other information pertaining to our customers, stockholders and employees. The legal, regulatory and contractual environment surrounding information security and privacy is constantly evolving and companies that collect and retain such information are under increasing attack by cyber-criminals around the world. A theft, loss, fraudulent use or misuse of customer, stockholder, employee or our proprietary data by cybercrime or otherwise, non-compliance with our contractual or other legal obligations regarding such data or a violation of our privacy and security policies with respect to such data could adversely impact our reputation and could result in costs, fines, litigation or regulatory action against us. Security breaches can create system disruptions and shutdowns that could result in disruptions to our operations. We cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities, new vulnerabilities or other developments will not compromise or breach the security solutions protecting our information technology, networks and systems.. The results of the United Kingdom's (\"UK\") European Union (\"EU\") membership referendum could adversely affect customer demand, our relationships with customers and suppliers and our business and financial statements.. Approximately 37% of our sales are conducted outside of the U.S., the majority of which is in the UK and the EU. The results of the UK's June 2016 EU membership referendum (commonly referred to as \"Brexit\"), advising for the exit of the UK from the EU, has caused and may continue to cause volatility in global stock markets, currency exchange rate fluctuations and global economic uncertainty, which could adversely affect customer demand, our relationships with customers and suppliers and our business and financial statements.. Our future results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted by intangible asset impairment charges.. As of December 31, 2017, we had goodwill and other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, of approximately $1,484 million, which represented approximately 41% of our total assets. Our goodwill is subject to an impairment test on an annual basis and is also tested whenever events and circumstances indicate that goodwill may be impaired. Any excess goodwill resulting from the impairment test must be written off in the period of determination. Intangible assets (other than goodwill) are generally amortized over the useful life of such assets. In addition, from time to time, we may acquire or make an investment in a business that will require us to record goodwill based on the purchase price and the value of the acquired assets. We may subsequently experience unforeseen issues with such business that adversely affect the anticipated returns of the business or value of the intangible assets and trigger an evaluation of the recoverability of the recorded goodwill. Page 12. and intangible assets for such business. Future determinations of significant write-offs of goodwill or intangible assets as a result of an impairment test or any accelerated amortization of other intangible assets could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Specific Risks Relating to Our Reportable Segments. Fluid Handling. Our Fluid Handling segment competes in markets that are fragmented and highly competitive. The business competes against large, well established global companies, as well as smaller regional and local companies. We compete based on our products' quality, reliability and safety, our brand reputation, value-added technical expertise and customer support and consistent on-time delivery. However, pricing can be highly competitive, particularly in regions and end markets with weakening levels of demand, or in markets where our value proposition - quality, reliability, and safety - is not valued as highly.. Demand for our Fluid Handling products is heavily dependent on our customers' level of new capital investment and planned maintenance expenditures. Customer spending typically depends on general economic conditions, availability of credit, and expectations of future demand. Slowing global economic growth, volatility in commodity prices, including continued weakness in oil prices could all contribute to lower levels of customer spending, and project delays or cancellations.. A portion of this segment's business is subject to government contracting rules and regulations. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in suspension or debarment from government contracting or subcontracting, civil and criminal liability, monetary and non-monetary penalties, disruptions to our business, limitations on our ability to export products and services, or damage to our reputation.  At our foreign operations, results could also be adversely impacted by a weakening of local currencies against the U.S. dollar; our Fluid Handling business has the greatest exposure to the euro, British pound, and Canadian dollar, although there is lesser exposure to several other currencies.. Payment & Merchandising Technologies. Our Payment & Merchandising Technologies segment sales are dependent on capital spending in a variety of end markets and across numerous geographies. The level of capital expenditures by our customers depends on general economic conditions, availability of credit, and expectations of future demand.  In addition, our results in this segment are subject to significant variability due to the timing and size of contract awards by central banks for banknote production.  Our results in this segment could be adversely impacted if our recently acquired Crane Currency business is not integrated successfully, including achieving planned cost savings from ongoing repositioning actions.. This business regularly develops and markets new products. Delays in the product development process, or the inability of new products to meet targeted performance measures, could hurt future sales. This business is also directly and indirectly exposed to changes in government regulations; for example, changes in gaming regulations could influence the spending patterns of our casino operator customers, or changes in anti-money laundering regulations could result in additional technical requirements for our products.. At our foreign operations, results could also be adversely impacted by a weakening of local currencies against the U.S. dollar; the business has the greatest exposure to the euro, British pound, the Japanese yen, the Mexican peso, and the Canadian dollar, although there is lesser exposure to several other currencies.  In addition, our facility in Mexico operates under the Mexican Maquiladora program. This program provides for reduced tariffs and eased import regulations; we could be adversely affected by changes in such program, or by our failure to comply with its requirements.. Aerospace & Electronics. Our Aerospace & Electronics segment sales are primarily affected by conditions in the commercial aerospace industry which is cyclical in nature, and by changes in defense spending by the U.S. government.. Commercial aircraft are procured primarily by airlines, and airline capital spending can be affected by a number of factors including credit availability, current and expected fuel prices, and current and forecast air traffic demand levels. Air traffic levels are affected by a different array of factors including general economic conditions and global corporate travel spending, although other non-economic events can also adversely impact airline traffic, including terrorism or pandemic health concerns. Our commercial business is also affected by the market for business jets where demand is typically tied to corporate profitability levels, and the freight markets which are most heavily influenced by general economic conditions. Demand for our commercial aftermarket business is closely tied to total aircraft flight hours. Any decrease in demand for new aircraft or equipment, or use of existing aircraft and equipment, would likely result in decreased sales of our products and services.. The defense portion of the segment's business is dependent primarily on U.S. government spending, and to a lesser extent, foreign government spending, on the specific military platforms and programs where our business participates. Any reduction. Page 13. in appropriations for these platforms or programs could impact the performance of our business. Our sales to defense customers are also affected by the level of activity in military flight operations.. We are required to comply with various export control laws, which may affect our transactions with certain customers. In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies, and in other circumstances we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting the controlled item. We are also subject to investigation and audit for compliance with the requirements governing government contracts, including requirements related to procurement integrity, manufacturing practices and quality procedures, export control, employment practices, the accuracy of records and the recording of costs and information security requirements. A failure to comply with these requirements could result in suspension of these contracts, and suspension or debarment from government contracting or subcontracting. Failure to comply with any of these regulations could result in civil and criminal liability, monetary and non-monetary penalties, fines, disruptions to our business, limitations on our ability to export products and services, and damage to our reputation.. Due to the lengthy research and development cycle involved in bringing commercial and military products to market, we cannot accurately predict the demand levels that will exist once a given new product is ready for market. In addition, if we are unable to develop and introduce new products in a cost-effective manner or otherwise effectively manage the introduction of new products and/or programs, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted.  Demand for our products could also be adversely impacted by industry consolidation that could result in greater acceptance of competitors' products.. Engineered Materials. Our Engineered Materials segment manufactures and sells FRP panels and coils, primarily for use in the manufacturing of RVs, trucks, and trailers, with additional applications in commercial and industrial building construction. Demand in these end markets is dependent on general economic conditions, credit availability, and consumer and corporate spending levels. A decline in demand in any of these end markets, a loss of market share, or customer pricing pressure, would result in lower sales and profits for this business. Profitability could also be adversely affected by an increase in the price of resin or fiberglass if we are unable to pass the incremental costs on to our customers. Additional risks include the loss of a principal supplier, and potential loss of market share to competing materials, such as wood or aluminum."
