[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Risks Inherent in Our Business. Our business depends on hydrocarbon supply and demand fundamentals, which can be adversely affected by numerous factors outside of our control.. Our success depends on the supply and demand for natural gas, NGLs and crude oil, which has historically generated the need for new or expanded midstream infrastructure.  The degree to which our business is impacted by changes in supply or demand varies.  Our business can be negatively impacted by sustained downturns in supply and demand for one or more commodities, including reductions in our ability to renew contracts on favorable terms and to construct new infrastructure.  For example, although capital investment in certain areas may have increased as crude oil prices improved in throughout 2017 and early 2018, significantly lower commodity prices during the past few years have resulted in an industry-wide reduction in capital expenditures by producers and a slowdown in drilling, completion and supply development efforts. Notwithstanding this market downturn, production volumes of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs have continued to grow (or decline at a slower rate than expected).  Similarly major factors that will impact natural gas demand domestically will be the realization of potential liquefied natural gas exports and demand growth within the power generation market.  Factors expected to impact crude oil demand include the lifting of the United States' crude oil export ban and production cuts and freezes implemented by Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) members and Russia.  In addition, the supply and demand for natural gas, NGLs and crude oil for our business will depend on many other factors outside of our control, some of which include:. • adverse changes in general global economic conditions;. • adverse changes in domestic regulations that could impact the supply or demand for oil and gas;. • technological advancements that may drive further increases in production and reduction in costs of developing shale plays;. • competition from imported supplies and alternate fuels;. • commodity price changes, including the recent decline in crude oil and natural gas prices, that could negatively impact the supply of, or the demand for these products;. • increased costs to explore for, develop, produce, gather, process or transport commodities;. • shareholder activism and activities by non-governmental organizations to limit sources of funding for the energy sector or restrict the exploration, development and production of oil and gas:. • adoption of various energy efficiency and conservation measures; and. • perceptions of customers on the availability and price volatility of our services, particularly customers' perceptions on the volatility of commodity prices over the longer-term.. If volatility and seasonality in the oil and gas industry decrease, because of increased production capacity or otherwise, the demand for our services and the prices that we will be able to charge for those services may decline.  In addition to volatility and seasonality, an extended period of low commodity prices, as the industry is currently experiencing, could adversely impact storage and transportation values for some period of time until market conditions adjust.  With West Texas Intermediate crude oil prices ranging from $42.53 to $60.42 per barrel in 2017, the sustainability of recent prices improvements and longer-term oil prices cannot be predicted.  These commodity price impacts could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our future growth may be limited if commodity prices remain low, resulting in a prolonged period of reduced midstream infrastructure development and service requirements to customers.. Our business strategy depends on our ability to provide increased services to our customers and develop growth projects that can be financed appropriately.  We may be unable to complete successful, accretive growth projects for any of the following reasons, among others:. • we fail to identify (or we are outbid for) attractive expansion or development projects or acquisition candidates that satisfy our economic and other criteria;. • we fail to secure adequate customer commitments to use the facilities to be developed, expanded or acquired; or. • we cannot obtain governmental approvals or other rights, licenses or consents needed to complete such projects or acquisitions on time or on budget, if at all.. 25. Table of Contents. The development and construction of gathering, processing, storage and transportation facilities involves numerous regulatory, environmental, safety, political and legal uncertainties beyond our control and may require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital.  When we undertake these projects, they may not be completed on schedule, at the budgeted cost or at all. Moreover, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular growth project.  For instance, if we build a new gathering system, processing plant or transmission pipeline, the construction may occur over an extended period of time and we will not receive material increases in revenues until the project is placed in service.  Accordingly, if we do pursue growth projects, we can provide no assurances that our efforts will provide a platform for additional growth for our company.. Our ability to finance new growth projects and make capital expenditures may be limited by our access to the capital markets or ability to raise investment capital at a cost of capital that allows for accretive midstream investments.. The significant decline in energy commodity prices in recent years has led to an increased concern by energy investors regarding the future outlook for the industry.  This has resulted in a historic decline in equity and debt valuations in the publicly traded capital markets as well as increased trading volatility.  As a result, our publicly traded common units experienced a decrease in value, primarily during 2015 and 2016, with a corresponding increase in yield resulting in a higher cost of capital than we have historically experienced.  Our growth strategy depends on our ability to identify, develop and contract for new growth projects and raise the investment capital, at a reasonable cost of capital, required to generate accretive returns from the growth project.  This trend may continue and could negatively impact our ability to grow for any of the following reasons:. • access to the public equity and debt markets for partnerships of similar size to us may limit our ability to raise new equity and debt capital to finance new growth projects;. • if market conditions deteriorate below current levels, it is unlikely that we could issue equity at costs of capital that would enable us to invest in new growth projects on an accretive basis; or. • we cannot raise financing for such projects or acquisitions on economically acceptable terms.. The growth projects we complete may not perform as anticipated.. Even if we complete growth projects that we believe will be strategic and accretive, such projects may nevertheless reduce our cash available for distribution due to the following factors, among others:. • mistaken assumptions about capacity, revenues, synergies, costs (including operating and administrative, capital, debt and equity costs), customer demand, growth potential, assumed liabilities and other factors;. • the failure to receive cash flows from a growth project or newly acquired asset due to delays in the commencement of operations for any reason;. • unforeseen operational issues or the realization of liabilities that were not known to us at the time the acquisition or growth project was completed;. • the inability to attract new customers or retain acquired customers to the extent assumed in connection with an acquisition or growth project;. • the failure to successfully integrate growth projects or acquired assets or businesses into our operations and/or the loss of key employees; or. • the impact of regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties that are beyond our control.. In particular, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production and/or demand in a region in which such growth does not materialize.  As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough throughput to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions.. If we complete future growth projects, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and you will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources.  If any growth projects we ultimately complete are not accretive to our cash available for distribution, our ability to make distributions may be reduced.. We may rely upon third-party assets to operate our facilities, and we could be negatively impacted by circumstances beyond our control that temporarily or permanently interrupt the operation of such third-party assets.. Certain of our operations and investments depend on assets owned and controlled by third parties to operate effectively.  For example, (i) certain of our \"rich gas\" gathering systems depend on interconnections, compression facilities and processing plants owned by third parties for us to move gas off our systems; (ii) our crude oil gathering systems depend on third-party. 26. Table of Contents. pipelines to move crude to demand markets or rail terminals and our crude oil rail terminals depend on railroad companies to move our customers' crude oil to market; and (iii) our natural gas storage facilities rely on third-party interconnections and pipelines to receive and deliver natural gas.  Since we do not own or operate these third-party facilities, their continuing operation is outside of our control.  If third-party facilities become unavailable or constrained, or other downstream facilities utilized to move our customers' product to their end destination become unavailable, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to make distributions.. In addition, the rates charged by processing plants, pipelines and other facilities interconnected to our assets affect the utilization and value of our services.  Significant changes in the rates charged by these third parties, or the rates charged by the third parties that own \"downstream\" assets required to move commodities to their final destinations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions.. We depend on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues.. We generate a substantial portion of our gathering revenues from a limited number of oil and gas producers.  If as a result of market conditions, certain of our producer customers levered to shale production reduce capital spending (or continue capital spending levels lower than historical levels) and/or shut in production for economic reasons, this could result in lower revenues for us.  In the event that market conditions deteriorate, this could lead to the loss of a significant customer, which could also cause a significant decline in our revenues.  In addition, to the extent our producer customers have weathered the challenges of lower commodity prices over the past few years, we cannot provide any assurance that they will remain viable over a longer period of lower commodity prices.. Declines in natural gas, NGL or crude prices could adversely affect our business.. Energy commodity prices have declined substantially since 2014 due to a wide range of factors, including a continuing growth of supply, slowdown or decline in demand, and challenges in economic, financial and monetary markets.  Sustained low natural gas, NGL and crude oil prices have recently negatively impacted natural gas and oil exploration and production activity levels industry-wide and in the areas we operate. A continued slowdown in activity can result in a decline in the production of hydrocarbons over time, resulting in reduced throughput on our systems, plants, trucks and terminals. Such a decline could also potentially affect the ability of our customers to continue their operations. As a result, sustained low natural gas and crude oil prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In general, the prices of natural gas, oil, condensate, NGLs and other hydrocarbon products fluctuate in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control.. Our gathering and processing operations depend, in part, on drilling and production decisions of others.. Our gathering and processing operations are dependent on the continued availability of natural gas and crude oil production.  We have no control over the level of drilling activity in our areas of operation, the amount of reserves associated with wells connected to our systems, or the rate at which production from a well declines.  Our gathering systems are connected to wells whose production will naturally decline over time, which means that our cash flows associated with these wells will decline over time. To maintain or increase throughput levels on our gathering systems and utilization rates at our natural gas processing plants, we must continually obtain new natural gas and crude oil supplies. Our ability to obtain additional sources of natural gas and crude oil primarily depends on the level of successful drilling activity near our systems, our ability to compete for volumes from successful new wells, and our ability to expand our system capacity as needed.  If we are not able to obtain new supplies of natural gas and crude oil to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing wells, throughput on our gathering and processing facilities would decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and distributable cash flow.. Although we have acreage dedications from customers that include certain producing and non-producing oil and gas properties, our customers are not contractually required to develop the reserves and or properties they have dedicated to us.  We have no control over producers or their drilling and production decisions in our areas of operations, which are affected by, among other things, (i) the availability and cost of capital; (ii) prevailing and projected commodity prices; (iii) demand for natural gas, NGLs and crude oil; (iv) levels of reserves and geological considerations; (v) governmental regulations, including the availability of drilling permits and the regulation of hydraulic fracturing; and (vi) the availability of drilling rigs and other development services.  Fluctuations in energy prices can also greatly affect the development of oil and gas reserves. Drilling and production activity generally decreases as commodity prices decrease, and sustained declines in commodity prices could lead to a material decrease in such activity.  Because of these factors, even if oil and gas reserves are known to exist in areas served by our assets, producers may choose not to develop those reserves.  Reductions in exploration or production activity in our areas of operations could lead to reduced utilization of our systems.. 27. Table of Contents. Estimates of oil and gas reserves depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate, and future volumes on our gathering systems may be less than anticipated.. We normally do not obtain independent evaluations of natural gas or crude oil reserves connected to our gathering systems. We therefore do not have independent estimates of total reserves dedicated to our systems or the anticipated life of such reserves. It often takes producers longer periods of time to determine how to efficiently develop and produce hydrocarbons from unconventional shale plays than conventional basins, which can result in lower volumes becoming available as soon as expected in the shale plays in which we operate.  If the total reserves or estimated life of the reserves connected to our gathering systems is less than anticipated and we are unable to secure additional sources of natural gas or crude oil, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We are exposed to credit risks of our customers, and any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our key customers could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations.. Many of our customers may experience financial problems that could have a significant effect on their creditworthiness.  Severe financial problems encountered by our customers could limit our ability to collect amounts owed to us, or to enforce performance of obligations under contractual arrangements.  In addition, many of our customers finance their activities through cash flows from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity.  The combination of the reduction of cash flows resulting from declines in commodity prices, a reduction in borrowing bases under reserve-based credit facility and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may result in a significant reduction of customers' liquidity and limit their ability to make payments or perform on their obligations to us.  Furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks, which increases the risk that they may default on their obligations to us.  Financial problems experienced by our customers could result in the impairment of our assets, reduction of our operating cash flows and may also reduce or curtail their future use of our products and services, which could reduce our revenues.. Our marketing, supply and logistics operations are seasonal and generally have lower cash flows in certain periods during the year, which may require us to borrow money to fund our working capital needs of these businesses.. The natural gas liquids inventory we pre-sell to our customers is higher during the second and third quarters of a given year, and our cash receipts during that period are lower.  As a result, we may have to borrow money to fund the working capital needs of our marketing, supply and logistics operations during those periods.  Any restrictions on our ability to borrow money could impact our ability to pay quarterly distributions to our unitholders.. Counterparties to our commodity derivative and physical purchase and sale contracts in our marketing, supply and logistics operations may not be able to perform their obligations to us, which could materially affect our cash flows and results of operations.. We encounter risk of counterparty non-performance in our marketing, supply and logistics operations. Disruptions in the price or supply of NGLs for an extended or near term period of time could result in counterparty defaults on our derivative and physical purchase and sale contracts.  This could impair our expected earnings from the derivative or physical sales contracts, our ability to obtain supply to fulfill our sales delivery commitments or our ability to obtain supply at reasonable prices, which could result adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our marketing, supply and logistics operations are subject to commodity risk, basis risk, or risk of adverse market conditions, which can adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We attempt to lock in a margin for a portion of the commodities we purchase by selling such commodities for physical delivery to our customers or by entering into future delivery obligations under contracts for forward sale. Through these transactions, we seek to maintain a position that is substantially balanced between purchases, and sales or future delivery obligations. Any event that disrupts our anticipated physical supply of commodities could expose us to risk of loss resulting from the need to fulfill our obligations required under contracts for forward sale. Basis risk describes the inherent market price risk created when a commodity of certain grade or location is purchased, sold or exchanged as compared to a purchase, sale or exchange of a like commodity at a different time or place. Transportation costs and timing differentials are components of basis risk. In a backwardated market (when prices for future deliveries are lower than current prices), basis risk is created with respect to timing. In these instances, physical inventory generally loses value as the price of such physical inventory declines over time. Basis risk cannot be entirely eliminated, and basis exposure, particularly in backwardated or other adverse market conditions, can adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. 28. Table of Contents. Changes in future business conditions could cause recorded long-lived assets and goodwill to become further impaired, and our financial condition and results of operations could suffer if there is an additional impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill.. We continually monitor our business, the business environment and the performance of our operations to determine if an event has occurred that indicates that a long-lived asset may be impaired.  If an event occurs, which is a determination that involves judgment, we may be required to utilize cash flow projections to assess our ability to recover the carrying value of our assets based on our long-lived assets' ability to generate future cash flows on an undiscounted basis.  This differs from our evaluation of goodwill, which is evaluated for impairment annually on December 31, and whenever events indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit could be less than the carrying amount.  This evaluation requires us to compare the fair value of each of our reporting units primarily utilizing discounted cash flows, to its carrying value (including goodwill).  If the fair value exceeds the carrying value amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not considered impaired.. Under GAAP, during the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, we were required to record $121.0 million, $194.0 million and $2,223.8 million of long-lived asset and goodwill impairments related to certain of our reporting units because changes in circumstances or events (of which one of the several indicators of impairment was considered jointly is a significant and other than temporary decrease in our market capitalization) indicated that the carrying values of such assets exceeded their fair value and were not recoverable.. Our long-lived assets and goodwill impairment analyses are sensitive to changes in key assumptions used in our analysis, such as expected future cash flows, the degree of volatility in equity and debt markets and our unit price.  If the assumptions used in our analysis are not realized, it is possible a material impairment charge may need to be recorded in the future.  We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of long-lived assets or goodwill.  Further, as we work toward a turnaround of our business, we will need to continue to evaluate the carrying value of our goodwill.  Any additional impairment charges that we may take in the future could be material to our results of operations and financial condition.  For a further discussion of our long-lived assets and goodwill impairments, see Part IV, Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, Note 2.. Our industry is highly competitive, and increased competitive pressure could adversely affect our ability to execute our growth strategy.. We compete with other energy midstream enterprises, some of which are much larger and have significantly greater financial resources or operating experience, in our areas of operation. Our competitors may expand or construct infrastructure that creates additional competition for the services we provide to customers. Our ability to renew or replace existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flow could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors and our customers. All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make distributions.. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund operations, limit our ability to react to changes in our business or industry, and place us at a competitive disadvantage.. We had approximately $1.5 billion of long-term debt outstanding as of December 31, 2017. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy debt obligations or to obtain alternative financing could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and business prospects.. Our substantial debt could have important consequences to our unitholders. For example, it could:. • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • limit our ability to fund future capital expenditures and working capital, to engage in development activities, or to otherwise realize the value of our assets and opportunities fully because of the need to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments of interest and principal on our debt or to comply with any restrictive covenants or terms of our debt;. • result in an event of default if we fail to satisfy debt obligations or fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness, which event of default could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable and could permit our lenders to foreclose on any of the collateral securing such debt;. 29. Table of Contents. • require a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use cash flow to fund operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities;. • increase our cost of borrowing;. • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or investments, or cause us to make non-strategic divestitures;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or industry in which we operate, placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our peers who are less highly leveraged and who therefore may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploring; and. • impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future.. Realization of any of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Restrictions in our revolving credit facility and indentures governing our senior notes could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions.. Our revolving credit facility and indentures governing our senior notes contain various covenants and restrictive provisions that will limit our ability to, among other things:. • incur additional debt;. • make distributions on or redeem or repurchase units;. • make investments and acquisitions;. • incur or permit certain liens to exist;. • enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates;. • merge, consolidate or amalgamate with another company; and. • transfer or otherwise dispose of assets.. Furthermore, our revolving credit facility contains covenants which requires us to maintain certain financial ratios such as (i) a net debt to consolidated EBITDA ratio (as defined in the credit agreement) of not more than 5.50 to 1.0; (ii) a consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest expense ratio (as defined in our credit agreement) of not less than 2.50 to 1.0, and (iii) a senior secured leverage ratio (as defined in its credit agreement) of not more than 3.75 to 1.0.. Borrowings under our revolving credit facility are secured by pledges of the equity interests of, and guarantees by, substantially all of our restricted domestic subsidiaries, and liens on substantially all of our real property (outside of New York) and personal property.  None of our equity investments have guaranteed, and none of the assets of our equity investments secure, our obligations under our revolving credit facility.. The provisions of our credit agreement and indentures governing our senior notes may affect our ability to obtain future financing and pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions.  In addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of our revolving credit facility or indentures governing our senior notes could result in events of default, which could enable our lenders or holders of our senior notes, subject to the terms and conditions of our credit agreement or indentures, as applicable, to declare any outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable.  If the payment of any such debt is accelerated, our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and the holders of our common units could experience a partial or total loss of their investment.. A change of control could result in us facing substantial repayment obligations under our revolving credit facility and indentures governing our senior notes.. Our credit agreement and indentures governing our senior notes contain provisions relating to change of control of Crestwood Equity's general partner.  If these provisions are triggered, our outstanding indebtedness may become due.  In such an event, there is no assurance that we would be able to pay the indebtedness, in which case the lenders under the revolving credit facility would have the right to foreclose on our assets and holders of our senior notes would be entitled to require us to repurchase all or a portion of our notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of such repurchase, which would have a material adverse effect on us.  There is no restriction on our ability or the ability of Crestwood Equity's general partner or its parent companies to enter into a transaction which would trigger the change of control provision. In certain circumstances, the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent, and this may be considered a change in control under our revolving credit facility and senior notes.  Please read \"The control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.\". 30. Table of Contents. Our ability to make cash distributions may be diminished, and our financial leverage could increase, if we are not able to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms.. Historically, we have used cash flow from operations, borrowings under our revolving credit facilities and issuances of debt or equity to fund our capital programs, working capital needs and acquisitions. Our capital program may require additional financing above the level of cash generated by our operations to fund growth. If our cash flow from operations decreases or distributions from our equity investments decrease as a result of lower throughput volumes on our systems or otherwise, our ability to expend the capital necessary to expand our business or increase our future cash distributions may be limited. If our cash flow from operations and the distributions we receive from subsidiaries are insufficient to satisfy our financing needs, we cannot be certain that additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future equity or debt offerings may be limited by our financial condition or general economic conditions at the time of any such financing or offering. Even if we are successful in obtaining the necessary funds, the terms of such financings could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Further, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage and issuing additional limited partner interests may result in significant unitholder dilution and would increase the aggregate amount of cash required to maintain the cash distribution rate which could materially decrease our ability to pay distributions. If additional capital resources are unavailable, we may curtail our activities or be forced to sell some of our assets on an untimely or unfavorable basis.. Increases in interest rates could adversely impact our unit price, ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes, and ability to make payments on our debt obligations.. Interest rates may increase in the future. As a result, interest rates on future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. Therefore, changes in interest rates either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price and our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and to make payments on our debt obligations.. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to operate.. Our success is dependent upon the efforts of our senior management team, as well as on our ability to attract and retain both executives and employees for our field operations.  Our senior executives have significant experience in the oil and gas industry and have developed strong relationships with a broad range of industry participants. The loss of these executives, or the loss of key field employees operating in competitive markets, could prevent us from implementing our business strategy and could have a material adverse effect on our customer relationships, results of operations and ability to make distributions.. We operate joint ventures that may limit our operational flexibility.. We conduct a meaningful portion of our operations through joint ventures (including our Crestwood Permian, Jackalope, PRBIC, Stagecoach Gas and Tres Palacios joint ventures), and we may enter into additional joint ventures in the future. In a joint venture arrangement, we could have less operational flexibility, as actions must be taken in accordance with the applicable governing provisions of the joint venture. In certain cases, we:. • could have limited ability to influence or control certain day to day activities affecting the operations;. • could have limited control on the amount of capital expenditures that we are required to fund with respect to these operations;. • could be dependent on third parties to fund their required share of capital expenditures;. • may be subject to restrictions or limitations on our ability to sell or transfer our interests in the jointly owned assets; and. • may be required to offer business opportunities to the joint venture, or rights of participation to other joint venture members, participants in certain areas of mutual interest.. In addition, joint venture participants may have obligations that are important to the success of the joint venture, such as the obligation to pay substantial carried costs pertaining to the joint venture. The performance and ability of our joint venture partners to satisfy their obligations under joint venture arrangements is outside of our control. If these parties do not satisfy their obligations, our business may be adversely affected. Our joint venture partners may be in a position to take actions contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives, and disputes between us and our joint venture partners may result in delays, litigation or operational impasses. The risks described above or the failure to continue our joint. 31. Table of Contents. ventures or to resolve disagreements with our joint venture partners could adversely affect our ability to conduct business that is the subject of a joint venture, which could in turn negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Moreover, our decision to operate aspects of our business through joint ventures could limit our ability to consummate strategic transactions.  Similarly, due to the perceived challenges of existing joint ventures, companies like ours that fund a considerable portion of their operations through joint ventures may be less attractive merger or take-over candidates.  We cannot provide any assurance that our operating model will not negatively affect the value of our common units.. We may not be able to renew or replace expiring contracts.. Our primary exposure to market risk occurs at the time contracts expire and are subject to renegotiation and renewal.  As of December 31, 2017, the weighted average remaining term of our consolidated portfolio of natural gas gathering contracts is approximately 10 years, and our consolidated portfolio of crude oil gathering contracts is approximately nine years.  The extension or replacement of existing contracts depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including:. • the macroeconomic factors affecting natural gas, NGL and crude economics for our current and potential customers;. • the level of existing and new competition to provide services to our markets;. • the balance of supply and demand, on a short-term, seasonal and long-term basis, in our markets;. • the extent to which the customers in our markets are willing to contract on a long-term basis; and. • the effects of federal, state or local regulations on the contracting practices of our customers.. Any failure to extend or replace a significant portion of our existing contracts, or extending or replacing them at unfavorable or lower rates, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions.. The fees we charge to customers under our contracts may not escalate sufficiently to cover our cost increases, and those contracts may be suspended in some circumstances.. Our costs may increase at a rate greater than the rate that the fees we charge to third parties increase pursuant to our contracts with them.  In addition, some third parties' obligations under their agreements with us may be permanently or temporarily reduced upon the occurrence of certain events, some of which are beyond our control, including force majeure events wherein the supply of natural gas or crude oil is curtailed or cut off.  Force majeure events generally include, without limitation, revolutions, wars, acts of enemies, embargoes, import or export restrictions, strikes, lockouts, fires, storms, floods, acts of God, explosions, mechanical or physical failures of our equipment or facilities or those of third parties.  If our escalation of fees is insufficient to cover increased costs or if any third party suspends or terminates its contracts with us, our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions could be materially adversely affected.. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation, and regulatory measures adopted by regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our operations, including our joint ventures, are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local regulatory authorities.  For example, because Stagecoach Gas transports natural gas in interstate commerce and stores natural gas that is transported in interstate commerce, Stagecoach Gas' natural gas storage and transportation facilities are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FERC under the Natural Gas Act.  Federal regulation under the Natural Gas Act extends to such matters as:. •rates, operating terms and conditions of service;. • the form of tariffs governing service;. • the types of services we may offer to our customers;. • the certification and construction of new, or the expansion of existing, facilities;. • the acquisition, extension, disposition or abandonment of facilities;. • contracts for service between storage and transportation providers and their customers;. • creditworthiness and credit support requirements;. • the maintenance of accounts and records;. • relationships among affiliated companies involved in certain aspects of the natural gas business;. • the initiation and discontinuation of services; and. • various other matters.. Natural gas companies may not charge rates that, upon review by the FERC, are found to be unjust and unreasonable or unduly discriminatory.  Existing interstate transportation and storage rates may be challenged by complaint and are subject to prospective change by the FERC.  Additionally, rate increases proposed by a regulated pipeline or storage provider may be. 32. Table of Contents. challenged and such increases may ultimately be rejected by the FERC.  Stagecoach Gas has authority from the FERC to charge and collect (i) market-based rates for interstate storage services provided at the Stagecoach, Thomas Corners, Seneca Lake and Steuben facilities and (ii) negotiated rates for interstate transportation services provided by the North-South Facilities and MARC I Pipeline.  The FERC has authorized Tres Palacios to charge and collect market-based rates for interstate storage services provided by its natural gas facilities.  The FERC's \"market-based rate\" policy allows regulated entities to charge rates different from, and in some cases, less than, those which would be permitted under traditional cost-of-service regulation. Among the sorts of changes in circumstances that could raise market power concerns would be an expansion of capacity, acquisitions or other changes in market dynamics. There can be no guarantee that our joint ventures will be allowed to continue to operate under such rate structures for the remainder of their assets' operating lives. Any successful challenge against rates charged for their storage and transportation services, or their loss of market-based rate authority or negotiated rate authority, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions.. There can be no assurance that the FERC will continue to pursue its approach of pro-competitive policies as it considers matters such as pipeline rates and rules and policies that may affect rights of access to natural gas transportation capacity and transportation and storage facilities. Failure to comply with applicable regulations under the Natural Gas Act, the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, the Pipeline Safety Act of 1968 and certain other laws, and with implementing regulations associated with these laws, could result in the imposition of administrative and criminal remedies and civil penalties of up to approximately $1.2 million per day, per violation.. A change in the jurisdictional characterization of our gathering assets may result in increased regulation, which could cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase.. Our natural gas and crude oil gathering operations are generally exempt from the jurisdiction and regulation of the FERC, except for certain anti-market manipulation provisions.  FERC regulation nonetheless affects our businesses and the markets for products derived from our gathering businesses. The FERC's policies and practices across the range of its oil and gas regulatory activities, including, for example, its policies on open access transportation, rate making, capacity release and market center promotion, indirectly affect intrastate markets. In recent years, the FERC has pursued pro-competitive policies in its regulation of interstate oil and natural gas pipelines. However, we have no assurance that the FERC will continue this approach as it considers matters such as pipeline rates and rules and policies that may affect rights of access to oil and natural gas transportation capacity. In addition, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services has regularly been the subject of substantial, on-going litigation. Consequently, the classification and regulation of some of our pipelines could change based on future determinations by the FERC, the courts or Congress. If our gathering operations become subject to FERC jurisdiction, the result may adversely affect the rates we are able to charge and the services we currently provide, and may include the potential for a termination of certain gathering agreements.. State and municipal regulations also impact our business. Common purchaser statutes generally require gatherers to gather or provide services without undue discrimination as to source of supply or producer; as a result, these statutes restrict our right to decide whose production we gather or transport. Federal law leaves any economic regulation of natural gas gathering to the states. The states in which we currently operate have adopted complaint-based regulation of gathering activities, which allows oil and gas producers and shippers to file complaints with state regulators in an effort to resolve access and rate grievances. Other state and municipal regulations may not directly regulate our gathering business, but may nonetheless affect the availability of natural gas for purchase, processing and sale, including state regulation of production rates and maximum daily production allowable from gas wells. While our gathering lines currently are subject to limited state regulation, there is a risk that state laws will be changed, which may give producers a stronger basis to challenge the rates, terms and conditions of its gathering lines.. Our operations are subject to compliance with environmental and operational health and safety laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities.. Our operations are subject to stringent federal, regional, state and local laws and regulations governing worker health and safety aspects of our operations, the discharge of materials into the environment and otherwise relating to environmental protection.  Such environmental laws and regulations impose numerous obligations that are applicable to our operations, including the acquisition of permits to conduct regulated activities, the incurrence of capital expenditures to comply with applicable legal requirements, the application of specific health and safety criteria addressing worker protections and the imposition of restrictions on the generation, handling, treatment, storage, disposal and transportation of materials and wastes.  Failure to comply with such environmental laws and regulations can result in the assessment of substantial administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial liabilities, the occurrence of delays in permitting or development of projects and the issuance of injunctions restricting or prohibiting some or all of our activities.  Certain environmental laws impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where materials or wastes have been disposed or. 33. Table of Contents. otherwise released.  In the course of our operations, generated materials or wastes may have been spilled or released from properties owned or leased by us or on or under other locations where these materials or wastes have been taken for recycling or disposal.. It is also possible that adoption of stricter environmental laws and regulations or more stringent interpretation of existing environmental laws and regulations in the future could result in additional costs or liabilities to us as well as the industry in general or otherwise adversely affect demand for our services.  For example, in October 2015, the EPA issued a final rule under the federal Clean Air Act lowering the United States NAAQS for ground-level ozone to 70 parts per billion for the 8-hour primary and secondary ozone standards.  The EPA published a final rule in November 2017 that issued area designations with respect to ground-level ozone for approximately 85% of the U.S. counties as either \"attainment/unclassifiable\" or \"unclassifiable\" but has not yet issued non-attainment designations for the remaining areas of the U.S. not addressed under the November 2017 final rule.  States are also expected to adopt regulations implementing the NAAQS rule that may be more stringent than the federal standards.  In another example, the EPA and U.S. Army of Corps of Engineers (Corp) published a final rule in June 2015 that attempted to clarify federal jurisdiction under the Clean Water Act over waters of the United States, but legal challenges to this rule followed and the rule has been stayed nationwide, with the U.S. Supreme Court accepting review of this rule in January 2017 to determine whether jurisdiction resides with the federal district or appellate courts.  Subsequently, the EPA and the Corps have proposed a rulemaking in June 2017 to repeal the June 2015 rule, announced their intent to issue a new rule defining the  Clean Water Act's jurisdiction, and published a proposed rule in November 2017 specifying that the contested May 2015 rule would not take effect until two years after the November 2017 proposed rule is finalized and published in the Federal Registrar.  As a result, future implementation of the June 2015 rule is uncertain at this time but to the extent any rule expands the scope of the Clean Water Act's jurisdiction, we could face increased costs and delays with respect to obtaining permits for dredge and fill activities in wetland areas.  Our compliance with these or other new or amended legal requirements could result in our incurring significant additional expense and operating delays or restrictions with respect to our operations, which may not be fully recoverable from customers and, thus, could reduce net income.  Our customers may similarly incur increased costs or restrictions that may limit or decrease those customers' operations and have an indirect material adverse effect on our business.. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of GHGs could result in increased operating and capital costs and reduced demand for our services.. Climate change continues to attract considerable public and scientific attention.  As a result, numerous proposals have been made and could continue to be made at the international, national, regional and state levels of government to monitor and limit emissions of GHGs.  These efforts have included consideration of cap-and-trade programs, carbon taxes, GHG reporting and tracking programs, and regulations that directly limit GHG emissions from certain sources.  At the federal level, no comprehensive climate change legislation has been implemented to date.  However, the EPA has adopted regulations to restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the Clean Air Act that, among other things, establish Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) construction and Title V operating permit reviews for GHGs from certain large stationary sources that are already potential major sources of principal, or criteria, pollutant emissions.  Facilities required to obtain PSD permits for their GHG emissions also will be required to meet best available control technology standards that typically will be established by the states. The EPA has also adopted regulations requiring the annual reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources in the United States including certain oil and natural gas production, processing, transmission, storage and distribution facilities as well as certain onshore gathering and boosting systems consisting primarily of gathering pipelines, compressors and process equipment used to perform natural gas compression, dehydration and acid gas removal.. Federal agencies also have begun directly regulating emissions of methane, a GHG, from oil and natural gas operations.  In June 2016, the EPA published a final rule establishing new emissions standards for methane and additional standards for volatile organic compounds from certain new, modified, and reconstructed equipment and processes in the oil and natural gas source category, including production, processing, transmission and storage facilities.  These standards require the use of certain equipment specific emissions control practices, require additional controls for pneumatic controllers and pumps as well as compressors, and impose leak detection and repair requirements for natural gas compressor and booster stations.  However, in June 2017, the EPA published a proposed rule to stay certain portions of the June 2016 standards for two years and re-evaluate the entirety of the 2016 standards but the EPA has not yet published a final rule and, as a result, future implementation of the 2016 standards is uncertain at this time.  In another example, the BLM published a final rule in November 2016 that imposes requirements to reduce methane emissions from venting, flaring, and leaking on public lands.  However, in October 2017, the BLM published a proposed rule that would temporarily suspend or delay certain requirements contained in the November 2016 final rule until January 17, 2019.  These rules and any other new methane emission standards imposed on the oil and gas sector could result in increased costs to our and our customers' operations and could delay or curtail our customers' activities, which could adversely affect our business.  On an international level, the United States is one of numerous nations that prepared an international climate change agreement in Paris, France in December 2015, requiring member countries to. 34. Table of Contents. review and \"represent a progression\" in their intended nationally determined contributions, which set GHG emission reduction goals every five years beginning in 2020.  This \"Paris agreement\" was signed by the United States in April 2016 and became effective in November 2016; however, this agreement does not create any binding obligations for nations to limit their GHG emissions, but does include pledges to voluntarily limit or reduce future emissions. However, in August 2017, the U.S. State Department officially informed the United Nations of the intent of the United States to withdraw from the Paris Agreement.  The Paris Agreement provides for a four year exit process beginning when it took effect in November 2016, which would result in an effective exit date of November 2020.  The United States' adherence to the exit process and/or the terms on which the United States may re-enter the Paris Agreement or a separately negotiated agreement are unclear at this time.. The adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs could require us and our customers to incur increased compliance and operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements.  Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the oil and natural gas that is produced, which may decrease demand for our midstream services.  Moreover, any such future laws and regulations that limit emissions of GHGs or that otherwise promote the use of renewable fuels could adversely affect demand for the natural gas our customers produce, which could thereby reduce demand for our services and adversely affect our business.  Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, recent non-governmental activism directed at shifting funding away from companies with energy-related assets could result in limitations or restrictions on certain sources of funding for the energy sector.. We may incur higher costs as a result of pipeline integrity management program testing and additional safety legislation.. Pursuant to authority under the NGPSA and HLPSA, PHMSA requires pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for pipelines located where a leak or rupture could harm \"high consequence areas\".  The regulations require operators like us to:. • perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity;. • identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a high consequence area;. • maintain processes for data collection, integration and analysis;. • repair and remediate pipelines as necessary; and. • implement preventive and mitigating actions.. We estimate that the total future costs to complete the testing required by existing PHMSA regulations will not have a material impact to our results. This estimate does not include the costs, if any, for repair, remediation, preventative or mitigating actions that may be determined to be necessary as a result of the testing program itself.. Moreover, new legislation or regulations adopted by PHMSA may impose more stringent requirements applicable to integrity management programs and other pipeline safety aspects of our operations, which could cause us to incur increased capital costs, operational delays and costs of operations.  For example, the 2011 Pipeline Safety Act increased the penalties for safety violations, established additional safety requirements for newly constructed pipelines and required studies of safety issues that could result in the adoption of new regulatory requirements by PHMSA for existing pipelines.  More recently, in June 2016, the 2016 Pipeline Safety Act was passed, extending PHMSA's statutory mandate through 2019 and, among other things, requiring PHMSA to complete certain of its outstanding mandates under the 2011 Pipeline Safety Act and developing new safety standards for natural gas storage facilities by June 2018.  The 2016 Pipeline Safety Act also empowers PHMSA to address imminent hazards by imposing emergency restrictions, prohibitions and safety measures on owners and operators of gas or hazardous liquid pipeline facilities without prior notice or an opportunity for a hearing.  PHMSA issued interim regulations in October 2016 to implement the agency's expanded authority to address unsafe pipeline conditions or practices that pose an imminent hazard to life, property, or the environment.. With regard to storage facilities, following the leak at a natural gas storage facility, in February 2016, PHMSA issued an advisory bulletin for natural gas storage facility operators, recommending that they review operations to identify the potential leaks and failures caused by corrosion, chemical or mechanical damage, or other material deficiencies in equipment; review storage facility locations and operations of shut-off and isolation systems, and comply with state regulations governing the permitting, drilling, completion, and operation of storage wells, and recommending the voluntary implementation of certain industry recognized recommended practices for natural gas storage facilities.  Further in December 2016, PHMSA issued final interim rules that impose new safety-related requirements on downhole facilities (including wells, wellbore tubing and casing) of new and existing underground natural gas storage facilities.  The final interim rules adopt and make mandatory two American Petroleum Institute Recommend Practices (API RP 1170 and 1171) that, among other things, address construction, maintenance, risk-management and integrity-management procedures.  PHMSA indicated when it issued the interim final rule. 35. Table of Contents. that the adoption of these safety standards for natural gas storage facilities represent a first step in a multi-phase process to enhance the safety of underground natural gas storage, with more standards likely forthcoming.  Most recently, in response to a petition for reconsideration of the interim final rule received in January 2017, PHMSA published a notice on June 20, 2017, advising that the agency intends to consider the issues raised by the petitioners in a final rule, which it currently expects to issue in 2018.  At this time, we cannot predict the impact of any future regulatory actions in this area.. In January 2017, PHMSA issued a final rule that amends its pipeline safety regulations for the design, construction, testing, operation and maintenance of hazardous liquids pipelines.  The final rule imposes more stringent standards that determine how operators repair aging and high-risk infrastructure, increase the frequency of tests that assess pipeline conditions, and require operators to report more operating and safety data.  Among other things, the final rule: (i) extends an operator's reporting requirements to gravity and hazardous liquids gathering pipelines; (ii) requires operators to inspect pipelines in areas affected by extreme weather and similar events within a certain timeframe; (iii) impose new requirements to periodically \"pig\" transmission pipelines in areas outside of high consequence areas; (iv) broadens the requirement for the use of leak detection systems; and (v) increases the use of inline inspection tools.  However, the date of implementation of this final rule by publication in the Federal Registrar remains uncertain following the January 2017 change in Presidential administrations.. We are evaluating PHMSA's new rules, and we cannot predict the precise impact that compliance with the new rules will have on our business.  The new rules may, among other things, require us or our joint ventures to install new or modified safety controls, undertake additional capital projects or conduct maintenance programs on an expedited basis.  The costs of complying with the new PHMSA rules, as well as other rules under consideration by PHMSA or other agencies, could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations.. Our business involves many hazards and risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance.. Our operations are subject to many risks inherent in gathering, processing, storage and transportation segments of the energy midstream industry, such as:. • damage to pipelines and plants, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by natural disasters and acts of terrorism;. • subsidence of the geological structures where we store NGLs, or storage cavern collapses;. • operator error;. • inadvertent damage from construction, farm and utility equipment;. • leaks, migrations or losses of natural gas, NGLs or crude oil;. • fires and explosions;. • cyber intrusions; and. • other hazards that could also result in personal injury, including loss of life, property and natural resources damage, pollution of the environmental or suspension of operations.. These risks could result in substantial losses due to breaches of contractual commitments, personal injury and/or loss of life, damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage.  For example, we have experienced releases on our Arrow water gathering system on the Fort Berthold Indian Reservation in North Dakota, the remediation and repair costs of which we believe are covered by insurance, but nonetheless potentially subjects us to substantial penalties, fines and damages from regulatory agencies and individual landowners.  These risks may also result in curtailment or suspension of our operations.  A natural disaster or other hazard affecting the areas in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our operations.  We are not fully insured against all risks inherent in our business.  For example, we do not have any property insurance on any of our underground pipeline systems that would cover damage to the pipelines.  We are also not insured against all environmental accidents that might occur, some of which may result in toxic tort claims.  If a significant accident or event occurs for which we are not fully insured, it could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions.. We may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates.  As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies may substantially increase.  In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage.  Additionally, we may be unable to recover from prior owners of our assets, pursuant to our indemnification rights, for potential environmental liabilities.  Although we maintain insurance policies with insurers in such amounts and with such coverages and deductibles as we believe are reasonable and prudent, our insurance may not be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to potential future claims for personal injury and property damage.. 36. Table of Contents. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, which could disrupt our operations.. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities (particularly our G&P facilities) have been constructed, which subjects us to the possibility of more onerous terms or increased costs to obtain and maintain valid easements and rights-of-way.  We obtain standard easement rights to construct and operate pipelines on land owned by third parties, and our rights frequently revert back to the landowner after we stop using the easement for its specified purpose.. Therefore, these easements exist for varying periods of time. Our loss of easement rights could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business, thereby resulting in a material reduction in our revenue, earnings and ability to make distributions.. Terrorist attacks or \"cyber security\" events, or the threat of them, may adversely affect our business.. The U.S. government has issued public warnings that indicate that pipelines and other assets might be specific targets of terrorist organizations or \"cyber security\" events.  These potential targets might include our pipeline systems or operating systems and may affect our ability to operate or control our pipeline assets, our operations could be disrupted and/or customer information could be stolen. The occurrence of one of these events could cause a substantial decrease in revenues, increased costs to respond or other financial loss, damage to reputation, increased regulation or litigation and or inaccurate information reported from our operations.  These developments may subject our operations to increased risks, as well as increased costs, and, depending on their ultimate magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us. We may not have sufficient cash from operations following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses to enable us to pay quarterly distributions to our common and preferred unitholders.. We may not have sufficient cash each quarter to pay quarterly distributions to our common unitholders or, alternatively, we may  reallocate a portion of our available cash to debt repayment or capital investment.  The amount of cash we can distribute on our common units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, distributions received from our joint ventures, and payments of fees and expenses as well as decisions the board of directors makes regarding acceptable levels of debt or the desire to invest in new growth projects.  Our board typically reviews these factors on a quarterly basis. Before we pay any cash distributions on our preferred and common units, we will establish reserves and pay fees and expenses, including reimbursements to our general partner and its affiliates, for all expenses they incur and payments they make on our behalf.  These costs will reduce the amount of cash available to pay distributions to our common unitholders and, to the extent we are unable to declare and pay fixed cash distributions on our preferred units, we cannot make cash distributions to our common unitholders until all payments accruing on the preferred units have been repaid.. The amount of cash we have available to distribute on our preferred and common units will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things:. • the rates charged for services and the amount of services customers purchase, which will be affected by, among other things, the overall balance between the supply of and demand for commodities, governmental regulation of our rates and services, and our ability to obtain permits for growth projects;. • force majeure events that damage our or third-party pipelines, facilities, related equipment and surrounding properties;. • prevailing economic and market conditions;. • governmental regulation, including changes in governmental regulation in our industry;. • changes in tax laws;. • the level of competition from other midstream companies;. • the level of our operating and maintenance and general administrative costs;. • the level of capital expenditures we make;. • our ability to make borrowings under our revolving credit facility;. • our ability to access the capital markets for additional investment capital; and. • acceptable levels of debt, liquidity and/or leverage.. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: the level and timing of capital expenditures we make; our debt service requirements and other liabilities; fluctuations in our working capital needs; our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets; restrictions contained in our debt agreements; and the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner.. 37. Table of Contents. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow given the current trends existing in the capital markets.. Since 2014, the dramatic decrease in commodity prices has negatively impacted the equity and debt markets resulting in limitations on our ability to access the capital markets for new growth capital at a reasonable cost of capital.  Historically, we have distributed all of our available cash to our preferred and common unitholders on a quarterly basis and relied upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures.  If the current capital market trends persist, we may be unable to finance growth externally by accessing the capital markets, and may have to depend on a reallocation of our cash distributions to reduce debt and/or invest in new growth projects.  In addition, we may dispose of assets to reduce debt and/or invest in new growth projects, which can impact the level of our cash distributions.. In the event we continue to distribute all of our available cash or decide to reallocate cash to debt reduction, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations.  To the extent we decide to reallocate cash to debt reduction or invest in new capital projects, we may be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level.  Subject to certain restrictions that apply if we are not able to pay cash distributions to our preferred unitholders, there are no limitations in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units.  The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, may impact the available cash that we have to distribute to our unit holders.. We may issue additional common units without common unitholder approval, which would dilute existing common unit holder ownership interests.. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests we may issue at any time without the approval of our existing common unitholders.  The issuance of additional common units or other equity interests of equal or senior rank will have the following effects:. • our existing common unitholders' proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease;. • the amount of cash available for distribution on each common unit may decrease;. • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase;. • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding common unit may be diminished; and. • the market price of the common units may decline.. Unitholders have less ability to elect or remove management than holders of common stock in a corporation.. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business, and therefore limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. Unitholders did not elect, and do not have the right to elect, our general partner or its board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner is effectively chosen by Crestwood Holdings, the general partner and only voting member of Holdings LP, the sole member of our general partner.  Although our general partner has a fiduciary duty to manage our partnership in a manner beneficial to us and our unitholders, the directors of our general partner also have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to its sole member, Holdings LP.. If unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. Our general partner generally may not be removed except upon the vote of the holders of 66<U+2154>% of the outstanding units voting together as a single class.. Our unitholders' voting rights are further restricted by a provision in our partnership agreement providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner and its affiliates, cannot be voted on any matter.. 38. Table of Contents. Common unitholders may have liability to repay distributions and in certain circumstances may be personally liable for the obligations of the partnership.. Under certain circumstances, common unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act (the Delaware Act), we may not make a distribution to our common unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount.  A purchaser of units who becomes a limited partner is liable for the obligations of the transferring limited partner to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the purchaser of units at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the partnership agreement.  Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted.. It may be determined that the right, or the exercise of the right by the limited partners as a group, to (i) remove or replace our general partner; (ii) approve some amendments to our partnership agreement; or (iii) take other action under our partnership agreement constitutes \"participation in the control\" of our business.  A limited partner that participates in the control of our business within the meaning of the Delaware Act may be held personally liable for our obligations under the laws of Delaware to the same extent as our general partner.  This liability would extend to persons who transact business with us under the reasonable belief that the limited partner is a general partner.  Neither our partnership agreement nor the Delaware Act specifically provides for legal recourse against our general partner if a limited partner were to lose limited liability through any fault of our general partner.. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to common unitholders depends primarily on our cash flow (including distributions from joint ventures) and not solely on profitability, which may prevent us from making cash distributions during periods when we record net income.. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow, including cash flow from reserves and working capital or other borrowings and cash distributions received from our joint ventures, and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items.  As a result, we may pay cash distributions during periods when we record net losses for financial accounting purposes and may not pay cash distributions during periods when we record net income.. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units.. Our partnership agreement restricts unitholders' voting rights by providing that any units held by a person or group that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner and its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter.. Crestwood Holdings and its affiliates may sell its common units in the public or private markets, and such sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units.  Additionally, Crestwood Holdings may pledge or hypothecate its common units or is interest in Crestwood Holdings LP.. As of December 31, 2017, Crestwood Holdings and its affiliates beneficially held an aggregate of 17,908,700 limited partner units.  The sale of any or all of these units in the public or private markets could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units or on any trading market on which the common units are traded.  Additionally, Crestwood Holdings may pledge or hypothecate its common units or its interest in Crestwood Holdings LP (Holdings LP), the sole member of our general partner, or its subsidiaries.  Such pledge or hypothecation may include terms and conditions that might result in an adverse impact on the trading price of our common units.. Our preferred units contain covenants that may limit our business flexibility.. Our preferred units contain covenants preventing us  from taking certain actions without the approval of the holders of a majority or a super-majority of the preferred units, depending on the action as described below. The need to obtain the approval of holders of the preferred units before taking these actions could impede our ability to take certain actions that management or our board of directors may consider to be in the best interests of its unit holders. The affirmative vote of the then-applicable voting threshold of the outstanding preferred units, voting separately as a class with one vote per preferred unit, shall be necessary to amend our partnership agreement in any manner that (i) alters or changes the rights, powers, privileges or preferences or duties and obligations of the preferred units in any material respect; (ii) except as contemplated in the. 39. Table of Contents. partnership agreement, increases or decreases the authorized number of preferred units; or (iii) otherwise adversely affects the preferred units, including without limitation the creation (by reclassification or otherwise) of any class of senior securities (or amending the provisions of any existing class of partnership interests to make such class of partnership interests a class of senior securities).  In addition, our partnership agreement provides certain rights to the preferred unit holders that could impair our ability to consummate (or increase the cost of consummating) a change-in-control transaction, which could result in less economic benefits accruing to our common unit holders.. The control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of our unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in our partnership agreement on the ability of the owner of our general partner, Holdings LP, from transferring its ownership interest in our general partner to a third party.  Additionally, Holdings LP's general partner interest in our general partner is pledged as collateral under a Credit Agreement between Crestwood Holdings and various lenders (Holdings Credit Agreement).  In the event of a default by Crestwood Holdings under the Holdings Credit Agreement, the lenders may foreclose on the pledged general partner interest and take or transfer control of our general partner without unitholder consent.  The new owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with its own choices and to control the decisions taken by our board of directors and officers. This effectively permits a \"change of control\" without the vote or consent of the common unitholders.  In addition, such a change of control could result in our indebtedness becoming due.  Please read \"A change of control could result in us facing substantial repayment obligations under our revolving credit facility and senior notes.\". Potential conflicts of interest may arise among our general partner, its affiliates and us. Our general partner and its affiliates have limited fiduciary duties to us, which may permit them to favor their own interests to the detriment of us.. Conflicts of interest may arise among our general partner and its affiliates, on the one hand, and us, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over our interests. These conflicts include, among others, the following:. • Our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duties to us.. • Our general partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties under the terms of our partnership agreement, while also restricting the remedies available for actions that, without these limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. As a result of purchasing our units, unitholders consent to various actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable state law.. • Our general partner determines the amount and timing of our investment transactions, borrowings, issuances of additional partnership securities and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available for distribution.. • Our general partner determines which costs it and its affiliates have incurred are reimbursable by us.. • Our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered, or from entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf, so long as the terms of any such payments or additional contractual arrangements are fair and reasonable to us.. • Our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by it and its affiliates.. • Our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us.. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner's fiduciary duties to us and restricts the remedies available for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement:. • provides that our general partner is entitled to make decisions in \"good faith\" if it reasonably believes that the decisions are in our best interests;. • generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the Conflicts Committee of the board of directors of our general partner and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or be \"fair and reasonable\" to us and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is \"fair and reasonable,\" our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships among the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; and. 40. Table of Contents. • provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud, willful misconduct or gross negligence.. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell their units at an undesirable time or price.. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of our outstanding units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, unitholders may be required to sell their units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. As of December 31, 2017, the directors and executive officers of our general partner owned approximately 6% of our common units.. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders. Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.  If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, or we were to become subject to material additional amounts of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to unitholders would be substantially reduced.. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. Despite the fact that we are organized as a limited partnership under Delaware law, we would be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes unless we satisfy a \"qualifying income\" requirement.  Based upon our current operations, we believe we satisfy the qualifying income requirement.  However, no ruling has been or will be requested regarding our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. Failing to meet the qualifying income requirement or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity.. If we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced.  Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our common unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units.. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. At the state level, several states have been evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise, or other forms of taxation. Imposition of a similar tax on us in the jurisdictions in which we operate or in other jurisdictions to which we may expand could substantially reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly applied on a retroactive basis.. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. From time to time, members of Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. Although there is no current legislative proposal, a prior legislative proposal would have eliminated the qualifying income exception to the treatment of all publicly-traded partnerships as corporations upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. In addition, in January 2017, final regulations regarding which activities give rise to qualifying income within the meaning of Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code were published in the Federal Registrar.  The final regulations are effective as of January 19, 2017, and apply to taxable years beginning on or after January 19, 2017.  We do not believe the final regulations affect our ability to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. 41. Table of Contents. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible for us to meet the exception for certain publicly traded partnerships to be treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes.  We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted.  Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units.. If the IRS were to contest the federal income tax positions we take, it may adversely impact the market for our common units, and the costs of any such contest would reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by you and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution.. If the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, it (and some states) may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustment directly from us, in which case our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced and our current and former unitholders may be required to indemnify us for any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustments that were paid on such unitholders behalf.. Pursuant to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, if the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns, it (and some states) may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustment directly from us.  To the extent possible under the new rules, our general partner may elect to either pay the taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly to the IRS or, if we are eligible, issue a revised information statement to each unitholder with respect to an audited and adjusted return.  Although our general partner may elect to have our unitholders take such audit adjustment into account in accordance with their interests in us during the tax year under audit, there can be no assurance that such election will be practical, permissible or effective in all circumstances.  As a result, our current unitholders may bear some or all of the tax liability resulting from such audit adjustment, even if such unitholders did not own units in us during the tax year under audit. If, as a result of any such audit adjustment, we are required to make payments of taxes, penalties and interest, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced and our current and former unitholders may be required to indemnify us for any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustments that were paid on such unitholders behalf.. Our unitholders are required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us.. Our unitholders are required to pay any U.S. federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. For example, if we sell assets and use the proceeds to repay existing debt or fund capital expenditures, a unitholder may be allocated taxable income and gain resulting from the sale and our cash available for distribution would not increase.  Similarly, taking advantage of opportunities to reduce our existing debt, such as debt exchanges, debt repurchases, or modifications of our existing debt could result in \"cancellation of indebtedness income\" being allocated to our unitholders as taxable income without any increase in our cash available for distribution. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income.. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected.. If you sell your common units, you will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between your amount realized and your tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of your allocable share of our total net taxable income result in a reduction in your tax basis in your common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units you sell will, in effect, become taxable income to you if you sell such units at a price greater than your tax basis in those common units, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost.  In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if you sell your units you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale.. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture of depreciation deductions.  Thus, you may recognize both ordinary income and capital loss from the sale of your units if the amount realized on a sale of your units is less than your adjusted basis in the units.  Net capital loss may. 42. Table of Contents. only offset capital gains and, in the case of individuals, up to $3,000 of ordinary income per year.  In the taxable period in which you sell your units, you may recognize ordinary income from our allocations of income and gain to you prior to the sale and from recapture items that generally cannot be offset by any capital loss recognized upon the sale of units.. Unitholders may be subject to limitation on their ability to deduct interest expense incurred by us.. In general, we are entitled to a deduction for interest paid or accrued on indebtedness properly allocable to our trade or business during our taxable year.  However, under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, our deduction for business interest is limited to the sum our business interest income and 30% of our adjusted taxable income.  For the purposes of this limitation, our adjusted taxable income is computed without regard to any business interest expense or business interest income, and in the case of taxable years beginning before January 1, 2022, any deduction allowable for depreciation, amortization, or depletion.. Tax-exempt entities face unique tax issues from our owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.. Investment in our common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs) raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from U.S. federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Further, with respect to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, a tax-exempt entity with more than one unrelated trade or business (including by attribution from investment in a partnership such as ours that is engaged in one or more unrelated trade or business) is required to compute the unrelated business taxable income of such tax-exempt entity separately with respect to each such trade or business (including for purposes of determining any net operating loss deduction).  As a result, for years beginning after December 31, 2017, it may not be possible for tax-exempt entities to utilize losses from an investment in our partnership to offset unrelated business taxable income from another unrelated trade or business and vice versa.  Tax-exempt entities should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units.. Non-U.S. unitholders will be subject to U.S. taxes and withholding with respect to their income and gain from owning our units.. Non-U.S. unitholders are generally taxed and subject to income tax filing requirements by the United States on income effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business (\"effectively connected income\").  Income allocated to our unitholders and any gain from the sale of our units will generally be considered to be \"effectively connected\" with a U.S. trade or business.  As a result, distributions to a Non-U.S. unitholder will be subject to withholding at the highest applicable effective tax rate and a Non-U.S. unitholder who sells or otherwise disposes of a unit will also be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the gain realized from the sale or disposition of that unit.. The Tax Cut and Jobs Act imposes a withholding obligation of 10% of the amount realized upon a Non-U.S. unitholder's sale or exchange of an interest in a partnership that is engaged in a U.S. trade or business.  However, due to challenges of administering a withholding obligation applicable to open market trading and other complications, the IRS has temporarily suspended the application of this withholding rule to open market transfers of interest in publicly traded partnerships pending promulgation of regulations or other guidance that resolves the challenges.  It is not clear if or when such regulations or other guidance will be issued.  Non-U.S. unitholders should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units.. We will treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the specific common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units.. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of our common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns.. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. We generally prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month (the Allocation Date), instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. Similarly, we generally allocate certain deductions for depreciation of capital additions, gain or loss realized on a sale or other disposition of our assets and, in the discretion of the general partner, any other extraordinary. 43. Table of Contents. item of income, gain, loss or deduction based upon ownership on the Allocation Date.  Treasury Regulations allow a similar monthly simplifying convention, but such regulations do not specifically authorize all aspects of our proration method.  If the IRS were to challenge our proration method, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. A unitholder whose common units are the subject of a securities loan (i.e., a loan to a \"short seller\" to cover a short sale of common units) may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.. Because there are no specific rules governing the U.S. federal income tax consequences of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose common units are the subject of a securities loan may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units. In that case, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition.  Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income.  Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller should modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their common units.. Our unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where they do not live as a result of investing in our common units.. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes, estate, inheritance or intangible taxes and foreign taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property and in which they do not reside. We own property and conduct business in various parts of the United States. Unitholders may be required to file state and local income tax returns in many or all of the jurisdictions in which we do business or own property. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. It is our unitholders' responsibility to file all required U. S. federal, state, local and foreign tax returns.. 44. Table of Contents"
