[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. We or our representatives from time-to-time may make or may have made certain forward-looking statements, whether orally or in writing, including without limitation, any such statements made or to be made in MD&A contained in our various SEC filings or orally in conferences or teleconferences. We wish to ensure that such statements are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements, so as to ensure, to the fullest extent possible, the protections of the safe harbor established in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.. 7. Accordingly, the forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to and are accompanied by the following meaningful cautionary statements identifying certain important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in such forward-looking statements. This list of risk factors is likely not exhaustive. We operate in rapidly changing and evolving markets throughout the world addressing the complex needs of communication service providers, financial institutions, and many others, and new risk factors will likely emerge. Further, as we enter new market sectors such as financial services, as well as new geographic markets, we are subject to new regulatory requirements that increase the risk of non-compliance and the potential for economic harm to us and our clients. Management cannot predict all of the important risk factors, nor can it assess the impact, if any, of such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any risk factor, or combination of risk factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those in any forward-looking statements. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that forward-looking statements will be accurate indicators of future actual results, and it is likely that actual results will differ from results projected in forward-looking statements and that such differences may be material.. We Derive a Significant Portion of Our Revenues From a Limited Number of Clients, and the Loss of the Business of a Significant Client Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Financial Position and Results of Operations.. Over the past decade, the worldwide communications industry has experienced significant consolidation, resulting in a large percentage of the market being served by a limited number of service providers with greater size and scale, and there are possibilities of further consolidation. Consistent with this market concentration, we generate approximately 60% of our revenues from our three largest clients, which are (in order of size) Comcast, Charter, and DISH, which each individually accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues. See the Significant Client Relationships section of MD&A for key renewal dates and a brief summary of our business relationship with these clients.. There are inherent risks whenever a large percentage of total revenues are concentrated with a limited number of clients. Such risks are that a significant client could: (i) undergo a formalized process to evaluate alternative providers for services we provide; (ii) terminate or fail to renew their contracts with us, in whole or in part for any reason; (iii) significantly reduce the number of customer accounts processed on our solutions, the price paid for our services, or the scope of services that we provide; or (iv) experience significant financial or operating difficulties. Any such development could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations and/or trading price of our common stock.. Our industry is highly competitive, and as a result, it is possible that a competitor could increase its footprint and share of customers serviced at our expense or a service provider could develop their own internal solutions. While our clients may incur some costs in switching to our competitors or their own internally-developed solutions, they may do so for a variety of reasons, including: (i) price; (ii) dissatisfaction with our solutions or service levels; or (iii) dissatisfaction with our relationships.. We May Not Be Able to Efficiently and Effectively Implement New Solutions or Convert Clients onto Our Solutions.. Our continued growth plans include the implementation of new solutions, as well as migrating both new and existing clients to our solutions. Such implementations or conversions (collectively referred to hereafter in this section as \"implementations\"), regardless of whether they involve new solutions or new customers, have become increasingly more difficult because of the sophistication, complexity, and interdependencies of the various software and network environments impacted, combined with the increasing complexity of the clients' underlying business processes. In addition, the complexity of the implementations increases when the arrangement includes other vendors participating in the project, including but not limited to, prime and subcontractor relationships with our company. For these reasons, implementations subject our clients to potential business disruption, which could cause them to delay or even cancel future implementations.. As a result, there is a risk that we may experience cancellations, delays, or unexpected costs associated with implementations. In addition, our inability to complete implementations in an efficient and effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, and could damage our reputation in the market place, reducing our opportunity to grow our business with both new and existing clients.. The Delivery of Our Solutions is Dependent on a Variety of Computing Environments and Communications Networks Which May Not Be Available or May Be Subject to Security Attacks.. Our solutions are generally delivered through a variety of sources including public cloud, third-party data center providers, and internally-operated computing environments (collectively referred to hereafter in this section as \"Systems\"). The end users are connected to the Systems through a variety of public and private communications networks, which we will collectively refer to herein as \"Networks.\" Our solutions are generally considered to be mission critical customer management systems by our clients. As a result, our clients are highly dependent upon the high availability and uncompromised security of the Networks and Systems to conduct their business operations.. 8. Networks and Systems are subject to the risk of an extended interruption, outage, or security breach due to many factors such as: (i) changes to the Systems and Networks for such things as scheduled maintenance and technology upgrades, or conversions to other technologies, service providers, or physical location of hardware; (ii) failures or lack of continuity of services from public could or third-party data center providers; (iii) defects in software program(s); (iv) human and machine error; (v) acts of nature; (vi) intentional, unauthorized attacks from computer \"hackers\", or cyber-attacks; and (vii) using our systems to perpetrate identity theft through unauthorized authentication to our clients' customers' accounts. Most recently, the marketplace is experiencing an ever-increasing exposure to both the number and severity of cyber-attacks.  In addition, we continue to expand our use of the Internet with our product offerings thereby permitting, for example, our clients' customers to use the Internet to review account balances, order services or execute similar account management functions. Access to Networks and Systems via the Internet has the potential to increase their vulnerability to unauthorized access and corruption, as well as increasing the dependency of the Systems' reliability on the availability and performance of the Internet and end users' infrastructure they obtain through other third-party providers.. The method, manner, cause and timing of an extended interruption, outage, or security breach in the Networks or Systems are impossible to predict. As a result, there can be no assurances that these Networks and Systems will not fail, not suffer a security breach or that our business continuity or remediation plans will adequately mitigate the negative effects of a disruption or security breach to the Networks or Systems. Further, our property, technology errors and omissions, and business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that we incur as a result of such interruptions or security breaches. Should the Networks or Systems: (i) experience an extended interruption or outage; (ii) have their security breached; or (iii) have their data lost, corrupted or otherwise compromised, it would impede our ability to meet product and service delivery obligations, and likely have an immediate impact to the business operations of our clients. This would most likely result in an immediate loss to us of revenue or increase in expense, as well as damaging our reputation. The loss of confidential information could result in losing the customers' confidence, as well as imposition of fines and damages. Any of these events could have an immediate, negative impact upon our financial position and our short-term revenue and profit expectations, as well as our long-term ability to attract and retain new clients.. The Occurrence or Perception of a Security Breach or Disclosure of Confidential Personally Identifiable Information Could Harm Our Business.. In providing solutions to our clients, we process, transmit, and store confidential and personally identifiable information (\"PII\"), including social security numbers and financial information. Our treatment of such information is subject to contractual restrictions and federal, state, and foreign data privacy laws and regulations, which continue to evolve resulting in greater scrutiny over the protection of PII. In response to these evolving restrictions and regulations, including the European Union's adoption of the General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\"), we leverage various data encryption strategies and have implemented measures to protect against unauthorized access to such information, and comply with these laws and regulations. These measures include standard industry practices (e.g. payment card industry (\"PCI\") requirements), periodic security reviews of our systems by independent parties, secure development practices, network firewalls, policy directives, procedural controls, intrusion detection systems, and antivirus applications. Because of the inherent risks and complexities to defend against cybercrime, these measures may fail to adequately protect this information. Any failure on our part to protect the privacy of personally identifiable information or comply with data privacy laws and regulations may subject us to contractual liability and damages, loss of business, damages from individual claimants, substantial fines/penalties, criminal prosecution, and unfavorable publicity. Even the mere perception of a security breach or inadvertent disclosure of personally identifiable information could damage our reputation and inhibit market acceptance of our solutions. In addition, third party vendors that we engage to perform services for us may unintentionally release personally identifiable information or otherwise fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations. The occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, and results of operations.. Our Business is Highly Dependent on the Global Communications Industry.. Since a large percentage of our revenues are generated from clients that operate within the global communications industry sector, we are highly dependent on the health and the business trends occurring within this industry (in particular for our North American cable and satellite clients).  Key factors within this industry that could potentially impact our clients' businesses, and thus, our business, are as follows:. •  Key Market Conditions:  The global communications industry has undergone significant fluctuations in growth rates and capital investment cycles in the past decade. Current economic indices suggest a slow stabilization of the industry, but it is impossible to predict whether this stabilization will persist or be subject to future instability.. In addition, changes in demand for traditional services for CSPs are causing them to seek new revenue sources, while also managing their cost structure and quality of service delivery during their business transformation. The result is that many CSPs are delaying investment decision on maintaining/advancing legacy systems, and/or making investments in new solutions to drive their business forward into new areas.. 9. •  Market Consolidation: The pace of consolidation within the industry continues to accelerate as service providers look to increase the scale of their operations and footprint within the entire communications ecosystem.  Potential byproducts of this consolidation that could impact us are as follows: (i) there could be fewer providers in the market, each with potentially greater bargaining power and economic leverage due to their larger size, which may result in our having to lower our prices to remain competitive, retain our market share, or comply with the surviving client's current more favorable contract terms, and (ii) the controlling entity in a consolidation that is not our current client, may acquire one of our existing clients and choose to consolidate both entities onto the controlling entity's software platform, thus reducing and possibly eliminating our business with our existing client.. Also, as consolidated entities execute upon their revenue and operational synergies, there is generally a slowdown in decision-making on large transformational projects, discretionary spending, and/or on new business initiatives.  While this could be a timing issue only, it could impact quarterly and annual results.. •  Increased Competition: Our clients operate in a highly competitive environment. Competitors range from traditional wireline and wireless providers to new entrants like new digital lifestyle service providers such as Facebook, Apple, Netflix, Google, and Amazon. Should these competitors be successful in their strategies, it could threaten our clients' market share, pricing power, and level of services delivered, all of which could negatively impact our clients' revenues, putting pressure on our source of revenues, as generally speaking, these companies do not use our core solutions and there can be no assurance that new entrants will become our clients. In addition, demand for spectrum, network bandwidth and content continues to increase and any changes in the regulatory environment could have a significant impact to not only our clients' businesses, but in our ability to help our clients be successful.. The above industry factors are impacting our clients' businesses, and thus could cause delays, cancellations/loss of business, and/or downward pricing pressure on our sales and services. This could cause us to either fall short of revenue expectations or have a cost model that is misaligned with revenues, either or both of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. We May Not Be Able to Respond to Rapid Technological Changes.. The market for business support solutions, such as customer care and billing solutions, is characterized by rapid changes in technology and is highly competitive with respect to the need for timely product innovations and new product introductions. As a result, we believe that our future success in sustaining and growing our revenues depends upon: (i) our ability to continuously expand, adapt, modify, maintain, and operate our solutions to address the increasingly complex and evolving needs of our clients without sacrificing the reliability or quality of the solutions; (ii) the integration of acquired technologies and their widely distributed, complex worldwide operations; and (iii) creating and maintaining an integrated suite of customer care and billing solutions, which are portable to new verticals such as utilities, financial services, and content distribution.  In addition, the market is demanding that our solutions have greater architectural flexibility and interoperability, and that we are able to meet the demands for technological advancements to our solutions at a greater pace. Our attempts to meet these demands subjects our R&D efforts to greater risks.. As a result, substantial and effective R&D and product investment will be required to maintain the competitiveness of our solutions in the market. Technical problems may arise in developing, maintaining, integrating, and operating our solutions as the complexities are increased. Development projects can be lengthy and costly, and may be subject to changing requirements, programming difficulties, a shortage of qualified personnel, and/or unforeseen factors which can result in delays. In addition, we may be responsible for the implementation of new solutions and/or the conversion of clients to new solutions, and depending upon the specific solution, we may also be responsible for operations of the solution.. There is an inherent risk in the successful development, implementation, conversion, integration, and operation of our solutions as the technological complexities, and the pace at which we must deliver these solutions to market, continue to increase. The risk of making an error that causes significant operational disruption to a client, or results in incorrect computer processing of customer or vendor data that we perform on behalf of our clients, increases proportionately with the frequency and complexity of changes to our solutions and new delivery models. There can be no assurance: (i) of continued market acceptance of our solutions; (ii) that we will be successful in the development of enhancements or new solutions that respond to technological advances or changing client needs at the pace the market demands; or (iii) that we will be successful in supporting the implementation, conversion, integration, and/or operations of enhancements or new solutions.. 10. A Reduction in Demand for Our Key Business Support Solutions Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Financial Position and Results of Operations.. Historically, a substantial percentage of our total revenues have been generated from our core cloud-based product, ACP, and related solutions. These solutions are expected to continue to provide a large percentage of our total revenues in the foreseeable future. Any significant reduction in demand for ACP and related solutions could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Likewise, a large percentage of revenues derived from our software license and services business have been derived from wholesale billing, retail billing and mediation products which are typically associated with large implementation projects. A sudden downward shift in demand for these products or for our professional services associated with these products could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. Failure to Attract and Retain Our Key Management and Other Highly Skilled Personnel Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business.. Our future success depends in large part on the continued service of our key management, sales, product development, professional services, and operational personnel. We believe that our future success also depends on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial, operational, and sales and marketing personnel, including, in particular, personnel in the areas of R&D, professional services, and technical support. Competition for qualified personnel at times can be intense, particularly in the areas of R&D, conversions, software implementations, and technical support. This risk is heightened with a widely dispersed customer base and employee populations. For these reasons, we may not be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel we require, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments and new product delivery objectives.. Variability of Our Quarterly Revenues and Our Failure to Meet Revenue and Earnings Expectations Would Negatively Affect the Market Price of Our Common Stock.. From time to time, we may experience variability in quarterly revenues and operating results. Common causes of failure to meet revenue and operating expectations include, among others:. •  Inability to close and/or recognize revenue on certain transactions in the period originally anticipated;. •  Delays in renewal of multiple or individually significant agreements;. •  Inability to renew existing arrangements at anticipated rates;. •  Delays in timing of initiation and/or implementation of significant projects or arrangements;. •  Inability to meet client expectations materially within our cost estimates;. •  Changes in spending and investment levels;. •  Foreign currency fluctuations; and. •  Economic and political conditions.. Should we fail to meet our revenue and earnings expectations of the investment community, by even a relatively small amount, it would most likely have a disproportionately negative impact upon the market price of our common stock.. Our International Operations Subject Us to Additional Risks.. We currently conduct a portion of our business outside the U.S. We are subject to certain risks associated with operating internationally including the following items:. •  Product development not meeting local requirements;. •  Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates for which a natural or purchased hedge does not exist or is ineffective;. •  Staffing and managing foreign operations;. •  Longer sales cycles for new contracts;. •  Longer collection cycles for client billings or accounts receivable, as well as heightened client collection risks, especially in countries with highly inflationary economies and/or restrictions on the movement of cash out of the country;. •  Trade barriers;. •  Governmental sanctions;. •  Complying with varied legal and regulatory requirements across jurisdictions;. •  Reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries;. •  Inability to recover value added taxes and/or goods and services taxes in foreign jurisdictions;. •  Political instability and threats of terrorism; and. 11. •  A potential adverse impact to our overall effective income tax rate resulting from, among other things:. •  Operations in foreign countries with higher tax rates than the U.S.;. •  The inability to utilize certain foreign tax credits; and. •  The inability to utilize some or all of losses generated in one or more foreign countries.. One or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our international operations, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial position.. We May Not Be Successful in the Integration or Achievement of Financial Targets of Our Acquisitions.. As part of our growth strategy, we seek to acquire assets, technology, and businesses which will provide the technology and personnel to expedite our product development efforts, provide complementary solutions, or provide access to new markets and clients.. Acquisitions involve a number of risks and difficulties, including: (i) expansion into new markets and business ventures; (ii) the requirement to understand local business practices; (iii) the diversion of management's attention to the assimilation of acquired operations and personnel; (iv) being bound by acquired client or vendor contracts with unfavorable terms; and (v) potential adverse effects on a company's operating results for various reasons, including, but not limited to, the following items: (a) the inability to achieve financial targets; (b) the inability to achieve certain financial expectations, operating goals, and synergies; (c) costs incurred to exit current or acquired contracts or activities; (d) costs incurred to service any acquisition debt; and (e) the amortization or impairment of acquired intangible assets.. Due to the multiple risks and difficulties associated with any acquisition, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in achieving our expected strategic, operating, and financial goals for any such acquisition.. Our International Operations Require Us To Comply With Applicable U.S. and International Laws and Regulations.. Doing business on a worldwide basis requires our company and our subsidiaries to comply with the laws and the regulations of the U.S. government and various international jurisdictions.  In addition, the number of countries enacting anti-corruption laws and related enforcement activities is increasing. These regulations place restrictions on our operations, trade practices and trade partners. In particular, our international operations are subject to U.S. and foreign anti-corruption laws and regulations such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\"), the U.K. Anti-Bribery Act and economic sanction programs administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (\"OFAC\").. The FCPA prohibits us from providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purposes of influencing official decisions or obtaining or retaining business. In addition, the FCPA imposes accounting standards and requirements on publicly traded U.S. corporations and their foreign affiliates, which are intended to prevent the diversion of corporate funds to the payment of bribes and other improper payments, and to prevent the establishment of \"off books\" slush funds from which such improper payment can be made. As part of our business, we regularly deal with state-owned business enterprises, the employees of which are considered foreign officials for purposes of the FCPA. In addition, some of the international locations in which we operate lack a developed legal system and have higher than normal levels of corruption. We inform our personnel and third-party sales representatives of the requirements of the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws, including, but not limited to their reporting requirements. We have also developed and will continue to develop and implement systems for formalizing contracting processes, performing due diligence on agents and improving our recordkeeping and auditing practices regarding these regulations. However, there is no guarantee that our employees, third-party sales representatives or other agents have not or will not engage in conduct undetected by our processes and for which we might be held responsible under the FCPA or other anti-corruption laws.. Economic sanctions programs restrict our business dealings with certain countries and individuals. From time to time, certain of our foreign subsidiaries have had limited business dealings with entities in jurisdictions subject to OFAC-administered sanctions. As a result of our worldwide business, we are exposed to a heightened risk of violating anti-corruption laws and OFAC regulations. Violations of these laws and regulations are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from government contracts and revocations or restrictions of licenses, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment.. 12. Our Use of Open Source Software May Subject Us to Certain Intellectual Property-Related Claims or Require Us to Re-Engineer Our Software, Which Could Harm Our Business.. We use open source software in connection with our solutions, processes, and technology. Companies that use or incorporate open source software into their products have, from time to time, faced claims challenging their use, ownership and/or licensing rights associated with that open source software. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming certain rights to what we believe to be open source software. Some open source software licenses require users who distribute open source software as part of their software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code in their software and make any derivative works of the open source code available on unfavorable terms or at no cost. In addition to risks related to license requirements, use of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties, support, or controls with respect to origin of the software. Use of open source software also complicates compliance with export-related laws. While we take measures to protect our use of open source software in our solutions, open source license terms may be ambiguous, and many of the risks associated with usage of open source software cannot be eliminated. If we were found to have inappropriately used open source software, we may be required to release our proprietary source code, re-engineer our software, discontinue the sale of certain solutions in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis, or take other remedial action that may divert resources away from our development efforts, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial position, and results of operations.. We Face Significant Competition in Our Industry.. The market for our solutions is highly competitive. We directly compete with both independent providers and in-house solutions developed by existing and potential clients. In addition, some independent providers are entering into strategic alliances with other independent providers, resulting in either new competitors, or competitors with greater resources. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, marketing, technical, and other competitive resources than our company, many with significant and well-established domestic and international operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with our existing competitors or with new competitors.. Failure to Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights or Claims by Others That We Infringe Their Intellectual Property Rights Could Substantially Harm Our Business, Financial Position and Results of Operations.. We rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright, trademark, and patent laws in the U.S. and similar laws in other countries, and non-disclosure, confidentiality, and other types of contractual arrangements to establish, maintain, and enforce our intellectual property rights in our solutions. Despite these measures, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, or misappropriated. Further, our contractual arrangements may not effectively prevent disclosure of our confidential information or provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of our confidential information. Others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information, which may complicate our assertion of trade secret rights against such parties. Costly and time consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. In addition, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. Therefore, in certain jurisdictions, we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position.. Although we hold a limited number of patents and patent applications on some of our solutions, we do not rely upon patents as a primary means of protecting our rights in our intellectual property. In any event, there can be no assurance that our patent applications will be approved, that any issued patents will adequately protect our intellectual property, or that such patents will not be challenged by third parties. Also, much of our business and many of our solutions rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third parties, and we may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties at all or on reasonable terms.. Finally, third parties may claim that we, our clients, licensees or other parties indemnified by us are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. Even if we believe that such claims are without merit, they can be time consuming and costly to defend and distract management's and technical staff's attention and resources. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected solutions, enter into costly settlement or license agreements or pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain of our solutions. Even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable to uphold its contractual obligations. If we cannot or do not license the infringed technology on reasonable pricing terms or at all, or substitute similar technology from another source, our business, financial position, and results of operations could be adversely impacted. Our failure to adequately establish, maintain, and protect our intellectual property rights could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial position, and results of operations.. 13. We May Incur Material Restructuring Charges in the Future.. In the past, we have recorded restructuring charges related to involuntary employee terminations, various facility abandonments, and various other restructuring and reorganization activities. We continually evaluate ways to reduce our operating expenses through new restructuring opportunities, including more effective utilization of our assets, workforce, and operating facilities. As a result, there is a risk, which is increased during economic downturns and with expanded global operations, that we may incur material restructuring or reorganization charges in the future.. Substantial Impairment of Long-lived Assets in the Future May Be Possible.. As a result of various acquisitions and the growth of our company over the last several years, we have approximately $115 million of long-lived assets other than goodwill (principally, property and equipment, software, and client contracts) as of December 31, 2017. Long-lived assets are required to be evaluated for possible impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. We utilize our market capitalization and/or cash flow models as the primary basis to estimate the fair value amounts used in our long-lived asset impairment valuations. If an impairment was to be recorded in the future, it could materially impact our results of operations in the period such impairment is recognized, but such an impairment charge would be a non-cash expense, and therefore would have no impact on our cash flows."
