[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. If any of the risks and uncertainties set forth below actually materialize, our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, the trading price of our common stock could decline and a stockholder could lose all or part of its, his or her investment. The risks and uncertainties set forth below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations.. We depend on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue and loss of any customer could significantly affect our business.. Both the HPP and TS segments are reliant upon a small number of significant customers, and the loss of or significant reduction in sales to any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.  For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017, two customers accounted for approximately $33.2 million in revenue, or 30% of our total revenues for the fiscal year.  A significant reduction in the sales to or loss of any of our major customers would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our revenues are largely dependent upon the ability of our customers to continue to grow or need services or to develop and sell products that incorporate our products. No assurance can be given that our customers will not experience financial or other difficulties that could adversely affect their operations and, in turn, our results of operations.. We depend on key personnel and skilled employees and face competition in hiring and retaining qualified employees.. We are largely dependent upon the skills and efforts of our senior management, managerial, sales and technical employees.  None of our senior management personnel or other key employees are subject to any employment contracts except Victor Dellovo, our Chief Executive Officer and President.  The loss of services of any of our executives or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Our future success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled technical professionals.  Our ability to maintain and renew existing engagements and obtain new business depends, in large part, on our ability to hire and retain technical personnel with the skills that keep pace with continuing changes in our industry standards and technologies.  The inability to hire additional qualified personnel could impair our ability to satisfy or grow our client base.  There can be no assurance that we will be successful in retaining current or future employees.. We depend on contracts with the federal government, primarily with the Department of Defense (\"DoD\"), for a significant portion of our revenue, and our business could be seriously harmed if the government significantly decreased or ceased doing business with us.. We derived 6% of our total revenue in fiscal year 2017 and 6% of our total revenue in fiscal year 2016 from the DoD as a subcontractor.  We expect that the  DoD contracts will continue to be important to our business for the foreseeable future.  If we were suspended or debarred from contracting with the federal government generally, the General Services Administration, or any significant agency in the intelligence community or the DoD,  if our reputation or relationship with government agencies were to be impaired, or if the government otherwise ceased doing business with us or significantly decreased the amount of business it does with us, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results would be materially and adversely affected.. To be successful, we must respond to the rapid changes in technology.  If we are unable to do so on a timely basis our business could be materially adversely affected.. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to enhance our current products and to develop new commercial  products on a timely and cost-effective basis in order to respond to technological developments and changing customer needs.  The design-in process is typically lengthy and expensive and there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to meet the product specifications of our customers in a timely and adequate manner.  In addition, if we fail to anticipate or to respond adequately to changes in technology and customer preferences, or if there is any significant delay in product developments or introductions, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including the risk of inventory obsolescence.  Because of the complexity of our products, we have experienced delays from time to time in completing products on a timely basis.  If we are unable to design, develop or introduce competitive new products on a timely basis, our future operating results would be adversely affected, particularly in our HPP segment.  There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing new products or enhancing our existing products on a timely or cost-effective basis, or that such new products or product enhancements will achieve market acceptance.. 9. We rely on single sources for supply of certain components and our business may be seriously harmed if our supply of any of these components or other components is disrupted.. Several components used in our HPP products are currently obtained from sole-source suppliers. We are dependent on key vendors like Mellanox Technologies for our high-speed interconnect components.  Generally, suppliers may terminate our purchase orders without cause upon 30 days' notice and may cease offering products to us upon 180 days' notice. Although we do not consider the risk of interruption of supply to be a significant risk in the near term, if in the future, Mellanox Technologies were to limit or reduce the sale of such components to us, or if these or other component suppliers, some of which are small companies, were to experience future financial difficulties or other problems which could prevent them from supplying the necessary components, such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These sole source and other suppliers are each subject to quality and performance risks, materials shortages, excess demand, reduction in capacity and other factors that may disrupt the flow of goods to us or our customers, which thereby may adversely affect our business and customer relationships.. We have no guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers and there can be no assurance that our suppliers will continue to meet our requirements. If our supply arrangements are interrupted, there can be no assurance that we would be able to find another supplier on a timely or satisfactory basis. Any shortage or interruption in the supply of any of the components used in our products, or the inability to procure these components from alternate sources on acceptable terms, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that severe shortages of components will not occur in the future. Such shortages could increase the cost or delay the shipment of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Significant increases in the prices of these components would also materially adversely affect our financial performance since we may not be able to adjust product pricing to reflect the increase in component costs. We could incur set-up costs and delays in manufacturing should it become necessary to replace any key vendors due to work stoppages, shipping delays, financial difficulties or other factors and, under certain circumstances, these costs and delays could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks.. We market and sell our products in certain international markets and we have established operations in the U.K. and Germany.  Foreign-based revenue is determined based on the location to which the product is shipped or services are rendered and represented 37% and 31% of our total revenue for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively.  If revenues generated by foreign activities are not adequate to offset the expense of establishing and maintaining these foreign activities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.  In addition, there are certain risks inherent in transacting business internationally, such as changes in applicable laws and regulatory requirements, export and import restrictions, export controls relating to technology, tariffs and other trade barriers, longer payment cycles, problems in collecting accounts receivable, political instability, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, expatriation controls and potential adverse tax consequences, any of which could adversely impact the success of our international activities.  A portion of our revenues are from sales to foreign entities, including foreign governments, which are primarily paid in the form of foreign currencies.  There can be no assurance that one or more of such factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future international activities and, consequently, on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Systems failures may disrupt our business and have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Any systems failures, including network, software or hardware failures, whether caused by us, a third party service provider, unauthorized intruders and hackers, computer viruses, natural disasters, power shortages or terrorist attacks, could cause loss of data or interruptions or delays in our business or that of our clients and reputational harm as a security provider.  Like other companies, we have experienced cyber security threats to our data and systems, our company sensitive information, and our information technology infrastructure, including malware and computer virus attacks, unauthorized access, systems failures and temporary disruptions.  We may experience similar security threats at customer sites that we operate and manage as a contractual requirement.  Prior cyber attacks directed at us have not had a material adverse impact on our business or our financial results, and we believe that our continuing commitment toward threat detection and mitigation processes and procedures will avoid such impact in the future.  Due to the evolving nature of these security threats, however, the impact of any future incident cannot be predicted.. In addition, the failure or disruption of our email, communications or utilities could cause us to interrupt or suspend our operations or otherwise harm our business.  Our property and business interruption insurance may be inadequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur as a result of any system or operational failure or disruption and, as a result, our actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. 10. The systems and networks that we maintain for our clients, although highly redundant in their design, could also fail.  If a system or network we maintain were to fail or experience service interruptions, we might experience loss of revenue or face claims for damages or contract termination.  Our errors and omissions liability insurance may be inadequate to compensate us for all the damages that we might incur and, as a result, our actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. We face competition that could adversely affect our sales and profitability.. The markets for our products are highly competitive and are characterized by rapidly changing technology, frequent product performance improvements and evolving industry standards.   Many of our competitors are substantially larger than we are and have greater access to capital and human resources and in many cases price their products and services less than ours.  In addition, due to the rapidly changing nature of technology, new competitors may emerge.  Competitors may be able to offer more attractive pricing or develop products that could offer performance features that are superior to our products, resulting in reduced demand for our products.  Such competitors could have a negative impact on our ability to win future business opportunities.  There can be no assurance that a new competitor will not attempt to penetrate the various markets for our products and services.  Their entry into markets historically targeted by us may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business could be adversely affected by changes in budgetary priorities of the federal government.. Because we derive a significant percentage of our revenue from contracts with the federal government, changes in federal government budgetary priorities could directly affect our financial performance.  A significant decline in government expenditures, a shift of expenditures away from programs that we support or a change in federal government contracting policies could cause federal government agencies to reduce their purchases under contracts, to exercise their right to terminate contracts at any time without penalty or not to exercise options to renew contracts.. In years when Congress does not complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year (September 30), government operations are funded through a continuing resolution (CR) that temporarily funds federal agencies.  Recent CRs have generally provided funding at the levels provided in the previous fiscal year and have not authorized new spending initiatives.  When the federal government operates under a CR, delays can occur in the procurement of products and services.  Historically, such delays have not had a material effect on our business; however, should funding of the federal government by CR be prolonged or extended, and sequestration is not alleviated, it could continue to have significant consequences to our business and our industry.. Additionally, our business could be seriously affected if changes in DoD priorities reduces the demand for our services on contracts supporting some operations and maintenance activities or if we experience an increase in set-asides for small businesses, which could result in our inability to compete directly for contracts.. U.S. Federal government contracts contain numerous provisions that are unfavorable to us.. U.S. Federal government contracts contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that give the government rights and remedies, some of which are not typically found in commercial contracts, including allowing the government to:. • cancel multi-year contracts and related orders if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become unavailable;. •  claim rights in systems and software developed by us;. •  suspend or debar us from doing business with the federal government or with a governmental agency;. •  impose fines and penalties and subject us to criminal prosecution; and. •  control or prohibit the export of our data and technology.. If the government terminates a contract for convenience, we may recover only our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to the termination.  If the government terminates a contract for default, we may be unable to recover even those amounts, and instead may be liable for excess costs incurred by the government in procuring undelivered items and services from another source.  Depending on the value of a contract, such termination could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. As is common with government contractors, we have experienced and continue to experience occasional performance issues under certain of our contracts.  Depending upon the value of the matters affected, a performance problem that impacts. 11. our performance of a program or contract could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.. We may be unsuccessful in protecting our intellectual property rights which could result in the loss of a competitive advantage.. Our ability to compete effectively against other companies in our industry depends, in part, on our ability to protect our current and future proprietary technology under patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and unfair competition laws. We cannot assure that our means of protecting our proprietary rights in the United States or abroad will be adequate, or that others will not develop technologies similar or superior to our technology or design around our proprietary rights. In addition, we may incur substantial costs in attempting to protect our proprietary rights.. Also, despite the steps taken by us to protect our proprietary rights, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy or reverse-engineer aspects of our products develop similar technology independently or otherwise obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary and we may be unable to successfully identify or prosecute unauthorized uses of our technology.  Furthermore, with respect to our issued patents and patent applications, we cannot assure that patents from any pending patent applications (or from any future patent applications) will be issued, that the scope of any patent protection will exclude competitors or provide competitive advantages to us, that any of our patents will be held valid if subsequently challenged or that others will not claim rights in or ownership of the patents (and patent applications) and other proprietary rights held by us.. If we become subject to intellectual property infringement claims, we could incur significant expenses and could be prevented from selling specific products.. We may become subject to claims that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others in the future. We cannot assure that, if made, these claims will not be successful. Any claim of infringement could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim even if the claim is invalid, and could distract management from other business. Any judgment against us could require substantial payment in damages and could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from offering certain products.. Our need for continued or increased investment in research and development may increase expenses and reduce our profitability.. Our industry is characterized by the need for continued investment in research and development. If we fail to invest sufficiently in research and development, our products could become less attractive to potential customers and our business and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. As a result of the need to maintain or increase spending levels in this area and the difficulty in reducing costs associated with research and development, our operating results could be materially harmed if our research and development efforts fail to result in new products or if revenues fall below expectations. In addition, as a result of our commitment to invest in research and development, spending levels of research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues may fluctuate in the future.. Our results of operations are subject to fluctuation from period to period and may not be an accurate indication of future performance.. We have experienced fluctuations in operating results in large part due to the sale of products and services in relatively large dollar amounts to a relatively small number of customers. Customers specify delivery date requirements that coincide with their need for our products and services. Because these customers may use our products and services in connection with a variety of defense programs or other projects with different sizes and durations, a customer's orders for one quarter generally do not indicate a trend for future orders by that customer. As such, we have not been able in the past to consistently predict when our customers will place orders and request shipments so that we cannot always accurately plan our manufacturing, inventory, and working capital requirements. As a result, if orders and shipments differ from what we predict, we may incur additional expenses and build excess inventory, which may require additional reserves and allowances and reduce our working capital and operational flexibility. Any significant change in our customers' purchasing patterns could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and reported earnings per share for a particular quarter. Thus, results of operations in any period should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period.. High quarterly book-ship ratios may pressure inventory and cash flow management, necessitating increased inventory balances to ensure quarterly revenue attainment. Increased inventory balances tie up additional capital, limiting our operational flexibility. Some of our customers may have become conditioned to wait until the end of a quarter to place orders in the. 12. expectation of receiving a discount. Customers conditioned to seek quarter-end discounts increase risk and uncertainty in our financial forecasting and decrease our margins and profitability.. Our quarterly results may be subject to fluctuations resulting from a number of other factors, including:. • delays in completion of internal product development projects;. • delays in shipping hardware and software;. • delays in acceptance testing by customers;. • a change in the mix of products sold to our served markets;. • changes in customer order patterns;. • production delays due to quality problems with outsourced components;. • inability to scale quick reaction capability products due to low product volume;. • shortages and costs of components;. • the timing of product line transitions;. • declines in quarterly revenues from previous generations of products following announcement of replacement products containing more advanced technology;. • inability to realize the expected benefits from acquisitions and restructurings, or delays in realizing such benefits;. • potential asset impairment, including goodwill and intangibles, or restructuring charges; and. • changes in estimates of completion on fixed price service engagements.. In addition, from time to time, we have entered into contracts, referred to as development contracts, to engineer a specific solution based on modifications to standard products. Gross margins from development contract revenues are typically lower than gross margins from standard product revenues. We intend to continue to enter into development contracts and anticipate that the gross margins associated with development contract revenues will continue to be lower than gross margins from standard product sales.. Another factor contributing to fluctuations in our quarterly results is the fixed nature of expenditures on personnel, facilities and marketing programs. Expense levels for these programs are based, in significant part, on expectations of future revenues. If actual quarterly revenues are below management's expectations, our results of operations will likely be adversely affected.  Further, the preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results could differ from those estimates, and changes in estimates in subsequent periods could cause our results of operations to fluctuate.. Changes in regulations could materially adversely affect us.. Our business, results of operations, or financial condition could be materially adversely affected if laws, regulations, or standards relating to us or our products are newly implemented or changed. In addition, our compliance with existing regulations may have a material adverse impact on us. Under applicable federal securities laws, we are required to evaluate and determine. the effectiveness of our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting which in 2015, 2016 and 2017, we determined have not been effective due to a material weakness described below.  If we have a material weakness in our internal controls, our results of operations or financial condition may be materially adversely affected or our stock price may decline.  As of September 30, 2017, we have identified a material weakness in connection with controls over revenue recognition in foreign subsidiaries.  See Item 9A \"Controls and Procedures\" else where in this document.. 13. If we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, we may not be able to recover successfully, which could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, or legal liability.. If we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as a hurricane, earthquake, terrorist attack, pandemic or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel, our office facilities, and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. As we attempt to grow our operations, the potential for particular types of natural or man-made disasters, political, economic or infrastructure instabilities, or other country- or region-specific business continuity risks increases.. If we suffer any data breaches involving the designs, schematics, or source code for our products or other sensitive information, our business and financial results could be adversely affected.. We securely store our designs, schematics, and source code for our products as they are created. A breach, whether physical, electronic or otherwise, of the systems on which this sensitive data is stored could lead to damage or piracy of our products. If we are subject to data security breaches from external sources or from an insider threat, we may have a loss in sales or increased costs arising from the restoration or implementation of additional security measures, either of which could adversely affect our business and financial results. Other potential costs could include loss of brand value, incident response costs, loss of stock market value, regulatory inquiries, litigation, and management distraction. In addition, a security breach that involved classified information could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, loss of a government contract, loss of access to classified information, or debarment as a government contractor. Similarly, a breach that involved loss of customer-provided data could subject us to loss of a customer, loss of a contract, litigation costs and legal damages, and reputational harm.. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly.. Our operating results have fluctuated widely on a quarterly and annual basis during the last several years and we expect to experience significant fluctuations in future operating results.  Many factors, some of which are beyond our control, have contributed to these fluctuations in the past and may continue to do so.  Such factors include:. • sales in relatively large dollar amounts to a relatively small number of customers;. • competitive pricing programs and volume discounts;. • loss of customers;. • market acceptance of our products;. • product obsolescence;. • general economic conditions;. • change in the mix of products sold;. • whether or not we are able to secure design wins for significant customer systems;. • timing of significant orders;. • delays in completion of internal product development projects or introduction of new products;. • delays in shipping our products;. • delays in acceptance testing by customers;. • production delays due to quality programs with outsourced components;. • shortages of components;. • timing of product line transitions;. 14. • uncertainty and timing of funding of governmental programs, including defense;. • declines of revenues from previous generations of products following announcement of replacement products containing more advanced technology; and. • fixed nature of our expenditures on personnel, facilities and marketing programs.. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations will not necessarily be meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicative of our future performance. It is also possible that in some periods, our operating results may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In such circumstances, the price of our common stock may decline.. We need to continue to expend resources on research and development (\"R&D\") efforts, particularly our HPP segment, to meet the needs of our customers.  If we are unable to do so, our products could become less attractive to customers and our business could be materially adversely affected.. Our industry requires a continued investment in research and development (R&D).  As a result of our need to maintain or increase our spending levels for R&D in this area and the difficulty in reducing costs associated with R&D, our operating results could be materially harmed if our revenues fall below expectations.  In addition, as a result of CSPI's commitment to invest in R&D, spending as a percent of revenues may fluctuate in the future.  Further, if we fail to invest sufficiently in R&D or our R&D does not produce competitive results, our products may become less attractive to our customers or potential. customers, which could materially harm our business and results of operations.. Our business could be adversely impacted if we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls over financial reporting.. Our management identified a material weakness in internal controls over financial reporting as of September 30, 2017.  A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting at our foreign subsidiaries, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the Company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected in a timely basis.. The material weakness, which was first identified in fiscal year 2015, was in connection with our controls over the revenue recognition process, specifically that revenue recognition criteria have been satisfied prior to recognizing revenue and the failure to sufficiently assess gross versus net revenue indicators to certain revenue transactions. We determined that controls over the revenue recognition process were not operating effectively and the resulting control deficiency amounted to a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting.  As a result, we have concluded that the Company's internal control over financial reporting are not effective as of September 30, 2017.  Although we have implemented changes to our internal controls over financial reporting during the past three years, at this time we cannot conclude that the material weakness has been remediated.. Effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are necessary in order for us to provide reliable financial and other reports and effectively prevent fraud. These types of controls are designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the proper preparation of our financial statements, as well as regarding the timely reporting of material information. If we cannot maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures, or provide reliable financial statements or SEC reports or prevent fraud, investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, our common stock could be subject to delisting on the stock exchange where it is traded, our operating results and the trading price of our common stock could suffer and we might become subject to litigation.. While our management will continue to review the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, there is no assurance that our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives, including the prevention and detection of fraud, all of the time.. Our stock price may continue to be volatile. Historically, the market for technology stocks has been extremely volatile. Our common stock has experienced and may continue to experience, substantial price volatility. The following factors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly:. 15. • loss of a major customer;. • loss of a major supplier;. • the addition or departure of key personnel;. • variations in our quarterly operating results;. • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, new products or product enhancements;. • acquisitions, distribution partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments;. • regulatory changes;. • sales of our common stock or other securities in the future;. • changes in market valuations of technology companies; and. • fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes.. In addition, the stock market in general and the NASDAQ Global Market and technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry factors may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against such companies.  If any shareholders were to issue a lawsuit, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit and the attention of management. could be diverted."
