[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. You should carefully consider each of the risk factors we describe below, as well as other factors described in this annual report on Form 10-K and elsewhere in our SEC filings.. Our results of operations fluctuate on a seasonal basis, and quarter to quarter comparisons may not be a good indicator of our performance.  Seasonal demand fluctuations may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to sell our products.. Approximately 66% of the Company's sales are attributable to products within our gift and craft categories, with the remainder attributable to products in the seasonal category.  Approximately 24% of our sales relate to the Christmas season.  The seasonal nature of our business has historically resulted in lower sales levels and operating losses in our first and fourth quarters, and higher sales levels and operating profits in our second and third quarters.  As a result, our quarterly results of operations fluctuate during our fiscal year, and a quarter to quarter comparison is not a good indication of our performance or how we will perform in the future.  For example, our overall results of operations in the future may fluctuate substantially based on seasonal demand for our products.  Such variations in demand could have a material adverse effect on the timing of cash flow and therefore our ability to meet our obligations with respect to our debt and other financial commitments.  Seasonal. 4. fluctuations also affect our inventory levels.  We must carry significant amounts of inventory, especially before the Christmas retail selling period.  If we are not successful in selling the inventory during the relevant period, we may have to sell the inventory at significantly reduced prices, or we may not be able to sell the inventory at all.. We rely on a few mass market retailers, warehouse clubs and national drug store chains for a significant portion of our sales.  The loss of sales, or a significant reduction of sales, to one or more of our large customers may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.  Past and future consolidation within the retail sector also may lead to reduced profit margins, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. A few of our customers are material to our business and operations.  Our sales to Walmart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates accounted for approximately 25% of our sales during our 2018 fiscal year.  No other single customer accounted for 10% or more of our sales in fiscal 2018.  Our ten largest customers, which include mass market retailers, warehouse clubs and national drug store chains, accounted for approximately 61% of our sales in our 2018 fiscal year.  Our business depends, in part, on our ability to identify and define product and market trends, and to anticipate, understand and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner.  There can be no assurance that our large customers will continue to purchase our products in the same quantities that they have in the past.  The loss of sales, or a significant reduction of sales, with one or more of our large customers, including without limitation a loss or significant reduction in sales resulting from our failure or inability to comply with one or more of any of our customers' sourcing requirements, may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.  Further, in recent years there has been consolidation among our retail customer base.  As the retail sector consolidates, our customers become larger, and command increased leverage in negotiating prices and other terms of sale of our products, including credits, discounts, allowances and other incentive considerations to these customers.  Past and future consolidation may lead to reduced profit margins, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. A portion of our products, primarily sewing patterns, are sold on a consignment basis by third party consignment sellers, including certain mass market retailers.  Because of the nature of the consignment arrangement, we may be adversely affected if third party consignment sellers, including mass market retailers, experience difficulties in recording sales of the products to end consumers, or in accounting for, or paying us for, the sales of such products.  Additionally, while the consigned products are physically stored with third parties, including third party consignment sellers, we do not have custody or control of such products, and the consigned products are subject to damage or loss, including, but not limited to, theft.  Any failure or inability by third parties, including third party consignment sellers, to appropriately manage the consignment arrangement may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. A portion of our products, primarily sewing patterns, are sold on a consignment basis by third party consignment sellers, including certain mass market retailers.  Under the consignment arrangement, the applicable products are physically stored at third party locations, including mass market retailer store locations, and we retain title to the consigned products until such products are purchased by an end consumer.  We recognize the sale of such consigned products at the time that the products are sold to the end consumer, as recorded at the applicable seller's point-of-sale terminals.  Under this arrangement, we are subject to the ability of third party consignment sellers, including mass market retailers, to appropriately record the sales of our consigned products to end consumers, and to appropriately account for, and pay us for, such recorded sales.  The failure or inability of third party consignment sellers, including mass market retailers, to record sales of our consigned products, and to appropriately account for, and pay us for, such recorded sales may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.  Additionally, while our consigned products are physically stored with third parties, including third party consignment sellers, we do not have custody or control of such products, and the consigned products are subject to damage or loss, including, but not limited to, theft.  There can be no assurance that third parties, including third party consignment sellers, will appropriately handle, monitor, secure or protect our consigned products, and any failure or inability to do so may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Increases in raw material and energy costs, resulting from general economic conditions, acts of nature, such as hurricanes, earthquakes or pandemics, acts of war, threats of war, terrorism, civil unrest, or other factors, may raise our cost of goods sold and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Paper and petroleum-based materials are essential in the manufacture of some of our products, such as our stationery and plastic decorative ribbons products, and the cost of such materials is significant to our cost of goods sold.  Energy costs, especially fuel costs, also are significant expenses in the production and delivery of our products.  Increased costs of raw materials or energy resulting from general economic conditions, acts of nature, such as hurricanes, earthquakes or pandemics, acts of war, threats of war, terrorism, civil unrest, or other factors, may result in declining margins and operating results if market conditions prevent us from passing these increased costs on to our customers through timely price increases on our products.. 5. Risks associated with our use of foreign suppliers may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. For a large portion of our product lines, with the exception of our decorative ribbon and bow product lines and sewing patterns, we use foreign suppliers to manufacture a significant portion of our products.  Approximately 58% of our sales in fiscal 2018 were related to products sourced from foreign suppliers.  Our use of foreign suppliers exposes us to risks inherent in doing business outside of the United States, including risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations, transportation costs and delays or disruptions, difficulties in maintaining and monitoring quality control (including without limitation risks associated with defective products), enforceability of agreed upon contract terms, compliance with existing and new United States and foreign laws and regulations, such as the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and legislation and regulations relating to imported products, costs relating to the imposition or retrospective application of antidumping and countervailing duties or other trade-related sanctions on imported products, economic, civil or political instability, acts of war, threats of war, terrorism, civil unrest, labor-related issues, such as labor shortages or wage disputes or increases, international public health issues, and restrictions on the repatriation of profits and assets.. Increased overseas sourcing by our competitors and our customers may reduce our market share and profit margins, adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We have relatively high market share in many of our seasonal product categories.  Most of our product markets have shown little or no growth, and some of our product markets have declined in recent years, and we continue to confront significant cost pressure as our competitors source certain products from overseas and certain customers increase direct sourcing from overseas factories.  Increased overseas sourcing by our competitors and certain customers may result in a reduction of our market share and profit margins, adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Difficulties encountered by our key customers may cause them to reduce their purchases from us and/or increase our exposure to losses from bad debts, and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Many of our largest customers are national and regional retail chains.  The retail channel in the United States has experienced significant shifts in market share among competitors in recent years, including as a result of the presence and continued growth of e-commerce retailers.  Any current or future economic slowdown, slow economic recovery, or uncertain economic outlook could further adversely affect our key customers.  Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if our customers file for bankruptcy protection and/or cease doing business, significantly reduce the number of stores they operate, significantly reduce their purchases from us, do not pay us for their purchases, or if their payments to us are delayed or reduced because of bankruptcy or other factors beyond our control.. Our inability to effectively develop, manufacture, procure, distribute and sell our products with an omni-channel approach may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The retail channel in the United States is rapidly evolving, and consumers are increasingly embracing online shopping, including through mobile commerce applications.  Many of our retail customers are experiencing a shift of their total consumer expenditures from sales at physical retail locations to sales on digital platforms.  Our retail customers expect us, as a product supplier, to assist them to deliver a seamless omni-channel shopping experience.   Additionally, our strategy includes a greater focus on our own direct-to-consumer online shopping opportunities.   We continue to invest in e-commerce technology, including the development of our digital platforms and mobile commerce applications.  Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if we are unable to effectively develop, manufacture, procure, distribute and sell our products with an omni-channel approach.. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by volatility in the demand for our products.. Our success depends on the sustained demand for our products.  Many factors affect the level of consumer spending on our products, including, among other things, general business conditions, interest rates, the availability of consumer credit, taxation, the effects of war, terrorism or threats of war, civil unrest, fuel prices, consumer demand for our products based upon, among other things, consumer trends and the availability of alternative products, and consumer confidence in future economic conditions.  A decline in economic activity in the United States or other regions of the world, a slow economic recovery, or an uncertain outlook, in addition to adversely affecting our customers, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition because of, among other things, reduced consumer spending on discretionary items, including our products.  We also routinely utilize new artwork, designs or licensed intellectual property in connection with our products, and our inability to design, select, procure, maintain or sell consumer-desired artwork, designs or. 6. licensed intellectual property could adversely affect the demand for our products, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if we are unable to compete successfully against our competitors.. Our success depends in part on our ability to compete against our competitors in our highly competitive markets.  Our competitors, including domestic businesses, foreign manufacturers who market directly to our customer base, and importers of products, may be able to offer similar products with more favorable pricing, servicing and/or terms of sale or may be able to provide products that more readily meet customer requirements or consumer preferences.  Our inability to successfully compete against our competitors could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel.. Our success depends, to a substantial extent, on the ability, experience and performance of our senior management.  In order to hire and retain qualified personnel, including our senior management team, we seek to provide competitive compensation programs.  Our inability to retain our senior management team, or our inability to attract and retain qualified replacement personnel, may adversely affect us.  We also regularly hire a large number of seasonal employees.  Any difficulty we may encounter in hiring seasonal employees may result in significant increases in labor costs, which may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Employee benefit costs may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We seek to provide competitive employee benefit programs to our employees.  Employee benefit costs, such as healthcare costs for our eligible and participating employees, may increase significantly at a rate that is difficult to forecast, in part because of the current and/or future impact of federal healthcare legislation on our employer-sponsored medical plans. Higher employee benefit costs could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our acquisition strategy involves risks, and difficulties in integrating potential acquisitions may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We regularly evaluate potential acquisition opportunities to support, strengthen and grow our business.  In fiscal 2018, we completed the acquisition of substantially all of the business and net assets of Simplicity.  In fiscal 2017, we completed the acquisitions of substantially all of the businesses and net assets of McCall and Schiff and in fiscal 2016, we completed the acquisition of substantially all of the business and net assets of Blumenthal.  We cannot be sure that we will be able to locate suitable acquisition candidates, acquire possible acquisition candidates, acquire such candidates on commercially reasonable terms, or integrate acquired businesses successfully.  Future acquisitions may require us to incur debt and contingent liabilities, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.  The process of integrating acquired businesses into our existing operations may result in operating, contract and supply chain difficulties, such as the failure to retain customers or management personnel.  Also, prior to our completion of any acquisition, we could fail to discover liabilities of the acquired business for which we may be responsible as a successor owner or operator in spite of any investigation we may make prior to the acquisition.  Such difficulties may divert significant financial, operational and managerial resources from our existing operations, and make it more difficult to achieve our operating and strategic objectives.  The diversion of management attention, particularly in a difficult operating environment, may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our strategy to continuously review the efficiency, productivity and competitiveness of our business may result in our decision to divest or close selected operations.  Any divesture or closure involves risks, and decisions to divest or close selected operations may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We regularly evaluate the efficiency, productivity and competitiveness of our business, including our competitiveness within our product categories.  As part of such review, we also regularly evaluate the efficiency and productivity of our production and distribution facilities.  If we decide to divest a portion of our business, we cannot be sure that we will be able to locate suitable buyers or that we will be able to complete such divestiture successfully, timely or on commercially reasonable terms.  If we decide to close a portion of our business, we cannot be sure of the effect such closure would have on the productivity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of our business, including our ongoing relationships with suppliers and customers, or of the expected success, timing or costs relating to such closure.  Activities associated with any divestiture or closure may divert significant financial, operational and managerial resources from our existing operations,. 7. and make it more difficult to achieve our operating and strategic objectives.  Accordingly, future decisions to divest or close any portion of our business may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights, or infringement claims asserted against us by others, may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We have a number of copyrights, patents, tradenames, trademarks and intellectual property licenses which are used in connection with our products.  While our operations are not dependent upon any individual copyright, patent, tradename, trademark or intellectual property license, we believe that the collective value of our intellectual property is substantial.  We rely upon copyright, patent, tradename and trademark laws in the United States and other jurisdictions and on confidentiality agreements with some of our employees and others to protect our proprietary rights.  If our proprietary rights were infringed, our business could be adversely affected.  In addition, our activities could infringe upon the proprietary rights of others, who could assert infringement claims against us.  We could face costly litigation to defend these claims.  If we are unsuccessful in defending such claims, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. We seek to register certain of our copyrights, patents, tradenames and trademarks in the United States and elsewhere.  These registrations could be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation.  In addition, our confidentiality agreements with some employees or others may not provide adequate protection in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary information, or if our proprietary information otherwise becomes known, or is independently developed by competitors.. We are subject to cyber security risks and may incur increasing costs in efforts to minimize those risks and to comply with regulatory standards.. We use information technologies to securely manage operations and various business functions. We rely on various technologies to process, store and report on our business and interact with customers, vendors and employees. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our efforts, and those of our third party vendors, to develop and maintain security systems to protect this information, the security of our computer networks could be compromised through circumstances beyond our control, including systems failures, viruses, security breaches or cyber incidents such as intentional cyber attacks aimed at theft of sensitive data, or inadvertent cyber-security compromises.  Such events could impact operations and confidential information could be misappropriated, which could lead to negative publicity, loss of sales and profits or cause us to incur significant costs to reimburse third-parties for damages which could adversely impact profits. As a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Various laws and governmental regulations applicable to a manufacturer or distributor of consumer products may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our business is subject to numerous federal, state, provincial, local and foreign laws and regulations, including laws and regulations with respect to labor and employment, product safety, including regulations enforced by the United States Consumer Products Safety Commission, import and export activities, the Internet and e-commerce, antitrust issues, taxes, chemical usage, air emissions, wastewater and storm water discharges and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials, including hazardous materials.  Although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, because legal requirements frequently change and are subject to interpretation, we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance or the consequences of non-compliance with these requirements, or the affect on our operations, any of which may be significant.  If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we may be subject to criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, or prohibitions on importing or exporting.  A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or concerns about product safety, also may lead to a recall or post-manufacture repair of selected products, resulting in the rejection of our products by our customers and consumers, lost sales, increased customer service and support costs, and costly litigation.  There is risk that any claims or liabilities, including product liability claims, relating to such noncompliance may exceed, or fall outside the scope of, our insurance coverage.  Further, a failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations with respect to the Internet and e-commerce activities (which cover issues relating to user privacy, data protection, copyrights and consumer protection), such as the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), may subject us to significant liabilities.  GDPR is a comprehensive European Union privacy and data protection reform effective in 2018.  GDPR applies to companies that are organized in the European Union (or otherwise provide services to consumers who reside in the European Union), imposes strict standards regarding the sharing, storage, use, disclosure and protection of end user data and significant penalties (monetary and otherwise) for non-compliance. Any failure to comply with GDPR, or other regulatory standards, could subject us to legal and reputational risks. Misuse of or failure to secure personal information could also result in violation of data privacy laws and regulations, proceedings against the Company by governmental entities or others, damage to our reputation. 8. and credibility, and as a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.  We cannot be certain that existing laws or regulations, as currently interpreted or reinterpreted in the future, or future laws or regulations, will not have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Unanticipated changes to our income tax liabilities may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. As a corporation operating in various international jurisdictions, our business is subject to a wide variety of laws, regulations and policies, including, but not limited to, those of the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Australia, Hong Kong, China and India.  There can be no assurance that laws, regulations and policies will not be changed in ways that will impact our income tax provision or our income tax assets and liabilities.  We are also subject to income tax audits in the United States and foreign jurisdictions in which we operate.  The tax laws to which we are subject are inherently complex and ambiguous, and we must interpret the applicable laws and make subjective judgments about both the expected outcome upon challenge by the applicable taxing authorities and our global provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities.  Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, there is risk that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals.  Tax authorities in the various jurisdictions in which we have a presence and conduct business may disagree with our tax positions and assess additional taxes.. Additionally, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws, and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process.  The carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the United States, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the United States.  Increases in our income tax liabilities or risks related to the realization of our deferred tax assets as a result of any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Further, as a company based in the United States but doing business in international markets through subsidiaries, we are subject to intercompany pricing rules in the jurisdictions where we operate.  Tax rates vary from country to country, and if regulators determine that our profits in one jurisdiction should be increased, we may not be able to fully offset the adjustment in the other jurisdictions, which would increase our effective tax rate.  Additionally, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (\"OECD\") has adopted guidelines regarding base erosion and profit shifting.  As a result of the adoption of these guidelines by the OECD, individual taxing jurisdictions have also adopted some form of these guidelines as well.  As such, we may need to change our approach to intercompany transfer pricing in order to maintain compliance under the new rules.  Our effective tax rate may increase or decrease depending on the current location of global operations at the time of the change.  An increase in our effective tax rate may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Further, in December 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") was enacted. The Tax Act revises the U.S. corporate income tax by, among other things, lowering the corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, adopting a quasi-territorial income tax system and imposing a one-time transition tax on foreign unremitted earnings, and setting limitations on deductibility of certain costs (e.g., interest expense).. The lower U.S. corporate income tax rate became effective January 1, 2018; however, our U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities were adjusted in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 when the new tax law was enacted.  Additionally, as part of the transition to the new quasi-territorial tax system, the Tax Act imposes a one-time tax on deemed repatriation of foreign subsidiaries' earnings, which the Company recorded in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.. Due to the complexities involved in the accounting for the Tax Act, on December 22, 2017, the Securities and Exchange Commission's Staff Accounting Bulletin (\"SAB\") 118 was issued to provide guidance to companies that have not yet completed their accounting for the Tax Act in the period of enactment.  SAB 118 requires us to include in our financial statements a reasonable estimate of the impact of the Tax Act on earnings to the extent such estimate has been determined. Accordingly, our U.S. provision for income tax for fiscal 2018 is based on the reasonable estimate guidance provided by SAB 118.  We are continuing to assess the impact from the Tax Act and will record adjustments in fiscal 2019.  The final impact on the Company from the Tax Act's transition tax legislation may differ from the reasonable estimate due to the complexity of calculating and supporting with primary evidence such U.S. tax attributes as accumulated foreign earnings and profits, foreign tax paid, and other tax components involved in foreign tax credit calculations for prior years back to 1986. Such differences could be material, due to, among other things, changes in interpretations of the Tax Act, future legislative action to address questions that arise because of the Tax Act, changes in accounting standards for income taxes or related interpretations in. 9. response to the Tax Act, or any updates or changes to estimates we have utilized to calculate the transition tax's reasonable estimate. Such differences could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations.. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by national or global changes in economic or political conditions.. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by national or global changes in economic or political conditions, including foreign currency fluctuations and fluctuations in inflation and interest rates, a national or international economic downturn, any future terrorist attacks, acts of war, threats of war, civil unrest, and the national and global military, diplomatic and financial exposure to such attacks or other threats.. We are subject to a number of restrictive covenants under our borrowing arrangement, including customary operating restrictions and customary financial covenants.  Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain compliance with such covenants.. Our borrowing arrangement contains a number of restrictive covenants, including customary operating restrictions that limit our ability to engage in activities such as incurring additional debt, making investments, granting liens on our assets, making capital expenditures, paying dividends and making other distributions on our capital stock, and engaging in mergers, acquisitions, asset sales and repurchases of our capital stock.  Under such arrangements, we are also subject to customary financial covenants, including covenants requiring us to maintain our capital expenditures below a maximum permitted amount each year and to keep our tangible net worth and our interest coverage ratio at or above certain minimum levels.  Compliance with the financial covenants contained in our borrowing arrangements is based on financial measures derived from our operating results.. If our business, results of operations or financial condition is adversely affected by one or more of the risk factors described above, or other factors described in this annual report on Form 10-K or elsewhere in our filings with the SEC, we may be unable to maintain compliance with these covenants.  If we fail to comply with such covenants, our lenders under our borrowing arrangements could stop advancing funds to us under these arrangements and/or demand immediate payment of amounts outstanding under such arrangements.  Under such circumstances, we may need to seek alternate financing sources to fund our ongoing operations and to repay amounts outstanding and satisfy our other obligations under our existing borrowing arrangements.  Such financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all.  Consequently, we may be restricted in how we fund ongoing operations and strategic initiatives and deploy capital, and in our ability to make acquisitions and to pay dividends.  As a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be further adversely affected if we are unable to maintain compliance with the covenants under our borrowing arrangements.. If our business, results of operations or financial condition is adversely affected as a result of any of the risk factors described above or elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K or our other SEC filings, we may be required to incur financial statement charges, such as asset or goodwill impairment charges, which may, in turn, have a further adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, we recorded a non-cash pre-tax impairment charge of $33,358,000 due to a full impairment of goodwill and partial impairment of a tradename.  If our business, results of operations or financial condition are adversely affected by one or more circumstances, such as any one or more of the risk factors above or other factors described in this annual report on Form 10-K and elsewhere in our SEC filings, we then may be required under applicable accounting rules to incur additional charges associated with reducing the carrying value on our financial statements of certain assets, such as goodwill, intangible assets or tangible assets.. Goodwill is subject to an assessment for impairment which must be performed at least annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that goodwill might be impaired.  We perform our required annual assessment as of our fiscal year end.  Effective April 1, 2017, the Company early adopted Accounting Standards Update 2017-04, \"Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment\" (\"ASU 2017-04\"), which replaced the two-step impairment test for goodwill with a one-step test that both identifies and measures goodwill impairment.  Under ASU 2017-04, entities still have the option to assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount.  If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, an entity determines it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then the quantitative goodwill impairment test is not necessary.  However, if an entity concludes otherwise, then it is required to perform the quantitative goodwill impairment test, which identifies both the existence of impairment and the amount of impairment loss by comparing the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying value.  If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value, an impairment loss shall be recognized in an amount equal to that excess.  Additionally, an entity shall consider the income tax effect from any tax deductible goodwill on the carrying value of the reporting unit when measuring the. 10. impairment loss.  Additionally, the Company uses quoted market prices in active markets as the basis for measurement of fair value with consideration given to a control premium.  We believe the use of multiple valuation techniques results in a more accurate indicator of the fair value of the reporting unit.  If the fair value of the goodwill is less than the carrying amount of the goodwill, an impairment loss will be reported.. Other indefinite lived intangible assets, such as our tradenames, also are required to be tested annually for impairment.  Authoritative guidance gives an entity the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired.  To perform a qualitative assessment, an entity must identify and evaluate changes in economic, industry and entity-specific events and circumstances that could affect the significant inputs used to determine the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset.  If the result of the qualitative analysis indicates it is more likely than not that an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired, a more detailed fair value calculation will need to be performed which is used to identify potential impairments and to measure the amount of impairment losses to be recognized, if any.  We calculate the fair value of our tradenames using a \"relief from royalty payments\" methodology.  We also review long-lived assets, except for goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets, for impairment when circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable.  If such assets are considered to be impaired, we will recognize, for impairment purposes, an amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets.. If we are required to incur any of the foregoing financial charges, our results of operations and financial condition may be further adversely affected."
