[1] "ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS. Consider carefully the following risk factors, which we believe are the principal risks that we face and of which we are currently aware, and the other information in this Annual Report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes to those financial statements.  If any of the risks described below occur, our business, financial results, financial condition and stock price could be materially adversely affected.  While we believe the risks disclosed below are the principal risks we face and of which we are currently aware, additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations.. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive, and many of our products are in highly competitive markets, particularly certain specialty chemicals products.  We may lose market share to producers of other products that can be substituted for our products.. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive, and we face significant competition from both large international competitors and from smaller regional competitors.  Our competitors may improve their competitive position in our core markets by successfully introducing new or substitute products, improving their manufacturing processes or expanding their capacity or manufacturing facilities.  Further, some of our competitors benefit from advantageous cost positions that could make it increasingly difficult for us to compete in markets for less-differentiated applications.  If we are unable to keep pace with our competitors' products and manufacturing process innovations or cost position, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. In addition, competition among producers of certain specialty chemicals products is intense.  Increased competition from existing or newly-developed chemical products may reduce demand for our products in the future, and our customers may decide on alternate sources to meet their requirements.  If we are unable to successfully compete with other producers or if other products can be successfully substituted for our products, our sales may decline.. Challenging and volatile conditions in the overall global economy, particularly in the U.S., including the capital, credit and commodities markets, could materially adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected by difficult economic conditions and significant volatility in the capital, credit and commodities markets and in the overall economy.  Challenging and volatile conditions in the U.S. and globally could affect our business in a number of ways.  For example:. • weak economic conditions, especially in our key end markets, could reduce demand for our products, impacting our revenues and margins;. • as a result of volatility in commodity prices, we may encounter difficulty in achieving sustained market acceptance of past or future price increases, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows;. • under difficult market conditions, there can be no assurance that access to credit or the capital markets would be available or sufficient, and in such a case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on reasonable terms, or at all; and. • challenging market conditions could result in our key customers experiencing financial difficulties and/or electing to limit spending, which in turn could result in decreased sales and earnings for us.. Our attempts to address evolving customer needs requires that we continually enhance our products.  Our efforts to enhance our products may not be commercially viable and failure to develop commercially successful products or keep pace with our competitors could harm our business and results of operations.. A failure to develop commercially successful products or product enhancements or to identify product extensions could materially adversely affect our financial results.  If our attempts to develop or enhance products is unsuccessful, we may be unable. 8. Table of Contents. to recover our development costs, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.  In addition, our inability to enhance or develop products that are able to meet the evolving needs of our customers, including a failure to do so that results in our products lagging those of new or existing competitors, could reduce demand for our products and may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. The cyclical nature of certain end markets that our business serves can cause significant fluctuations in our results of operations and cash flows.. The cyclical nature of the supply and demand balance of certain end markets that we serve, including the energy and mining industries, poses risks to us that are beyond our control and can affect our operating results.  These markets are highly competitive; are driven to a large extent by end-use markets; and may experience overcapacity, all of which may affect demand for and pricing of our products and result in volatile operating results and cash flows over our business cycle.  Future growth in product demand may not be sufficient to utilize current or future capacity.  Excess industry capacity may continue to depress our volumes and margins on some products.  Our operating results, accordingly, may be volatile as a result of excess industry capacity, as well as from rising energy and raw materials costs.. Our acquisition and integration of businesses could negatively impact our financial results.. Acquiring businesses involves a number of financial, accounting, managerial, operational, legal, compliance and other risks and challenges, including the following, any of which could adversely affect our financial statements:. • any acquired business, technology, service or product could under-perform relative to our expectations and the price that we paid for it, not achieve cost savings or other synergies in accordance with our anticipated timetable or require us to take an impairment related to the acquired business;. • we may decide to divest businesses, technologies, services or products for financial, strategic or other reasons, which may require significant financial and managerial resources and may result in unfavorable accounting treatment;. • we may incur or assume significant debt in connection with our acquisitions, which would increase our leverage and interest expense, thereby reducing funds available to us for purposes such as working capital, capital expenditures, research and development and other general corporate purposes;. • pre-closing and post-closing earnings and charges could adversely impact operating results in any given period, and the impact may be substantially different from period to period;. • the process of integrating acquired operations may create operating difficulties and may require significant financial and managerial resources that would otherwise be available for existing operations;. • we could experience difficulty in integrating financial and other controls and systems;. • we may lose key employees or customers of the acquired company;. • we may assume liabilities that are unknown or for which our indemnification rights are insufficient, or known or contingent liabilities may be greater than anticipated; and. • conforming the acquired company's standards, process, procedures and controls, including accounting systems and controls, with our operations could cause internal control deficiencies related to our internal control over financial reporting or exposure to regulatory sanctions resulting from the acquired company's activities.. Weakness in the energy industry may adversely affect certain segments of our end market customers and reduce our sales and results of operations.. Some of our customers are impacted by a weakness in the energy industry.  This means our operations and earnings may be significantly affected by changes in oil, gas and petrochemical prices and drilling activities.  Oil, gas, petrochemical and product prices and margins in turn depend on local, regional and global events or conditions that affect supply and demand for the relevant commodity.. Loss of key suppliers, the inability to secure raw materials on a timely basis, or our inability to pass commodity price increases on to customers could have an adverse effect on our business.. Materials used in our manufacturing operations are generally available on the open market from multiple sources.  However, some of the raw materials we use are only available from a limited number of sources; accordingly, any disruptions to a critical suppliers' operations could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.  Prices paid for raw materials could be affected by the energy industry and other commodity prices; tariffs and duties on imported materials; foreign currency exchange rates; and phases of the general business cycle and global demand.  We may be unable to pass along price increases to our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. 9. Table of Contents. If we are not able to successfully execute and realize the expected financial benefits from strategic restructuring and other integration and cost-saving initiatives, our business could be adversely affected.. From time to time, our business has engaged in strategic restructuring activities and cost savings initiatives, and such activities may occur in the future.  These efforts have included consolidating certain manufacturing facilities in a broader effort to streamline and rationalize our manufacturing processes as we further integrate our operations.. While we expect meaningful financial benefits from our strategic restructuring and other cost-saving initiatives, we may not realize the full benefits expected within the anticipated time frame.  Adverse effects from restructuring activities could interfere with our realization of anticipated synergies, customer service improvements and cost savings from these strategic initiatives.  Additionally, our ability to fully realize the benefits and implement restructuring programs may be limited by certain contractual commitments.  Moreover, because such expenses are difficult to predict, we may incur substantial expenses in connection with the execution of restructuring plans in excess of what is forecasted.  Further, restructuring activities are a complex and time-consuming process that can place substantial demands on management, which could divert attention from other business priorities or disrupt our daily operations.  Any of these failures could, in turn, materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, which could constrain our liquidity.. If these measures are not successful or sustainable, we may undertake additional restructuring and cost reduction efforts, which could result in future charges.  Moreover, our ability to achieve our other strategic goals and business plans may be adversely affected, and we could experience business disruptions with customers and elsewhere if our past or future restructuring efforts prove ineffective.. We rely on independent distributors as a channel to market for many of our products.  Termination of a substantial number of our distributor relationships or an increase in a distributor's sales of our competitors' products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We depend on the services of domestic and international independent distributors to sell our products and, in many cases, provide service and aftermarket support to end users of our products. Rather than serving as passive conduits for delivery of products, our distributors play a significant role in determining which of our products are available for purchase by contractors to service end users.  While the use of distributors expands the reach and customer base for our products, the maintenance and administration of distributor relationships is costly and time consuming.  The loss of a substantial number of our distributors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In certain international jurisdictions, distributors are conferred certain legal rights that could limit our ability to modify or terminate distribution relationships.. Many of the distributors with whom we transact business also offer competitors' products and services to our customers.  An increase in the distributors' sales of our competitors' products to our customers, or a decrease in the number of our products the distributor makes available for purchase, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Growth of our business will depend in part on market awareness of our industrial brands, and any failure to develop, maintain, protect or enhance our industrial brands would hurt our ability to retain or attract customers.. We believe that building and maintaining market awareness, brand recognition and goodwill is critical to our success.  This will depend largely on our ability to continue to provide high-quality products, and we may not be able to do so effectively.  Our efforts in developing our industrial brands may be affected by the marketing efforts of our competitors and our reliance on our independent dealers, distributors and strategic partners to promote our industrial brands effectively.  If we are unable to cost-effectively maintain and increase positive awareness of our industrial brands, our businesses, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed.. We are dependent on contract manufacturers for manufacturing of certain products that we sell.. We use third parties to manufacture certain of our products.  To the extent that we rely on third parties to perform these functions, we will not be able to directly control product delivery schedules and quality assurance.  This lack of control may result in product shortages or quality assurance problems that could delay shipments of products, increase manufacturing, assembly, testing or other costs or diminish our brand recognition or relationships with our customers.  If a contract manufacturer experiences capacity constraints or financial difficulties, suffers damage to its facilities, experiences power outages, natural disasters, labor shortages or labor strikes, or any other disruption of assembly or testing capacity, we may not be able to obtain alternative manufacturing in a timely manner or on commercially acceptable terms.. We may not be able to consummate acquisitions at our historical rate and at appropriate valuations, which could negatively impact our growth rate and stock price.. 10. Table of Contents. As part of our business strategy, we acquire businesses in the ordinary course, some of which may be material; please see \"Item 1. Business\" and \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" included in this Annual Report for additional information.  Our ability to grow revenues, earnings and cash flow at or above our historic rates depends in part upon our ability to identify, successfully acquire and integrate businesses at accretive valuations and realize anticipated synergies.  Our inability to do so could adversely impact our growth rate and our stock price.  Our ability to implement our inorganic growth strategy will be limited by our ability to identify appropriate acquisition candidates, which are difficult to identify for a number of reasons, including high valuations and competition among prospective buyers.  Covenants in our credit agreement and our financial resources, including available cash and borrowing capacity, will also limit our ability to consummate acquisitions, which may require additional debt financing, resulting in higher leverage and an increase in interest expense.  Changes in accounting or regulatory requirements could also adversely impact our ability to consummate acquisitions.. Our relationships with our employees could deteriorate, which could adversely affect our operations.. As a manufacturing company, we rely on a positive relationship with our employees to produce our products and maintain our production processes and productivity.  As of March 31, 2018, we had 730 full-time employees in our continuing operations, of which 18 were subject to collective bargaining agreements.  If our workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, our operations could be disrupted, or we could experience higher labor costs.  In addition, if significant portions of our employees were to become unionized, we could experience significant operating disruptions and higher ongoing labor costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Loss of key personnel or our inability to attract and retain new qualified personnel could hurt our business and inhibit our ability to operate and grow successfully.. Our success in the highly competitive end markets in which we operate will continue to depend to a significant extent on our key employees, and we are dependent on the expertise of our executive officers and other key employees.  Loss of the services of any of these individuals could have an adverse effect on our business.  Further, we may not be able to retain or recruit qualified individuals to join our company.  The loss of executive officers or other key employees could result in high transition costs and could disrupt our operations.. Chemical processing is inherently hazardous, which could result in accidents that disrupt our operations or expose us to significant losses or liabilities.. Hazards associated with chemical processing and the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes exist in our operations and the operations of other occupants with whom we share manufacturing sites.  These hazards could lead to an interruption or suspension of operations and have an adverse effect on the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility or on us as a whole.  These potential risks include, but are not necessarily limited to chemical spills and other discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases, pipeline and storage tank leaks and ruptures, explosions and fires and mechanical failure.  These hazards may result in personal injury and loss of life, damage to property and contamination of the environment, which may result in a suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties, including governmental fines, expenses for remediation and claims brought by governmental entities or third parties.  The loss or shutdown of operations over an extended period at any of our major operating facilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  Our property, business interruption and casualty insurance may not fully insure us against all potential hazards incidental to our business.. Regulation of our employees' exposure to certain chemicals or other hazardous products could require material expenditures or changes in our operations.. Certain chemicals that we use in the manufacture of our products may have adverse health effects.  The Occupational Safety and Health Administration limits the permissible employee exposure to some of those chemicals.  Future studies on the health effects of certain chemicals may result in additional or new regulations that further restrict or prohibit the use of, and exposure to, certain chemicals.  Additional regulation of certain chemicals could require us to change our operations, and these changes could affect the quality of our products and materially increase our costs.. Regulatory and statutory changes applicable to us or our customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We and many of our customers are subject to various national, state and local laws, rules and regulations.  Changes in any of these areas could result in additional compliance costs, seizures, confiscations, recall or monetary fines, any of which could prevent or inhibit the development, distribution and sale of our products.. In addition, we benefit from certain regulations, including building code regulations, which require the use of products that we and other manufacturers sell.  For example, certain environmental regulations may encourage the use of more environmentally. 11. Table of Contents. friendly products, such as some of the lubricants and greases that we manufacture.  If these regulations were to change, demand for our products could be reduced and our results of operations could be adversely affected.. Compliance with extensive environmental, health and safety laws could require material expenditures, changes in our operations or site remediation.. Our operations and properties are subject to regulation under environmental laws, which can impose substantial sanctions for violations.  We must conform our operations to applicable regulatory requirements and adapt to changes in such requirements in all jurisdictions in which we operate.  Certain materials we use in the manufacture of our products can represent potentially significant health and safety concerns.  We use large quantities of hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in certain of our manufacturing operations.  Consequently, our operations are subject to extensive environmental, health and safety laws and regulations at the international, national, state and local level in multiple jurisdictions.  These laws and regulations govern, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges, solid and hazardous waste management, site remediation programs and chemical use and management.  Many of these laws and regulations have become more stringent over time, and the costs of compliance with these requirements may increase, including costs associated with any necessary capital investments.  In addition, our production facilities require operating permits that are subject to renewal and, in some circumstances, revocation.  The necessary permits may not be issued or continue in effect, and renewals of any issued permits may contain significant new requirements or restrictions.  The nature of the chemical industry exposes us to risks of liability due to the use, production, management, storage, transportation and sale of materials that may be hazardous and can cause contamination or personal injury or damage if released into the environment.. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations generally increases the costs of transportation and storage of raw materials and finished products, as well as the costs of storage and disposal of wastes.  We may incur substantial costs, including fines, damages, criminal or civil sanctions and remediation costs, or experience interruptions in our operations for violations arising under environmental laws, regulations or permit requirements.. Our permits, licenses, registrations or authorizations and those of our customers or distributors may be modified, suspended, terminated or revoked before their expiration or we and/or they may be unable to renew them upon their expiration.  We may bear liability for failure to obtain, maintain or comply with required authorizations.. We are required to obtain and maintain, and may be required to obtain and maintain in the future, various permits, licenses, registrations and authorizations for the ownership or operation of our business, including the manufacturing, distribution, sale and marketing of our products and importing of raw materials.  These permits, licenses, registrations and authorizations could be modified, suspended, terminated or revoked or we may be unable to renew them upon their expiration for various reasons, including for non-compliance.  These permits, licenses, registrations and authorizations can be difficult, costly and time consuming to obtain and could contain conditions that limit our operations.  Our failure to obtain, maintain and comply with necessary permits, licenses, registrations or authorizations for the conduct of our business could result in fines or penalties, which may be significant.  Additionally, any such failure could restrict or otherwise prohibit certain aspects of our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Many of our customers and distributors require similar permits, licenses, registrations and authorizations to operate.  If a significant customer, distributor or group thereof were to have an important permit, license, registration or authorization revoked or such permit, license, registration or authorization was not renewed, forcing them to cease or reduce their business, our sales could decrease, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Failure to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price.. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, effectively prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company.  If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or effectively prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results could be harmed.  If we are unable to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to provide reliable financial reports, which in turn could affect our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations.  Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in reported financial information, which could negatively affect our stock price, limit our ability to access capital markets in the future, and require additional costs to improve internal control systems and procedures.. Our insurance policies may not cover, or fully cover, us against natural disasters, global conflicts or environmental risk.. We currently have insurance policies for certain operating risks, which include certain property damage, including certain aspects of business interruption for certain sites, operational and product liability, transit, directors' and officers' liability, industrial accident insurance and other risks customary in the industries in which we operate.  However, we may become subject to liability (including in relation to pollution, occupational illnesses, injury resulting from tampering, product contamination or degeneration or other hazards) against which we have not insured or cannot fully insure.. 12. Table of Contents. For example, hurricanes may affect our facilities or the failure of our information systems as a result of breakdown, malicious attacks, unauthorized access, viruses or other factors could severely impair several aspects of operations, including, but not limited to, logistics, sales, customer service and administration.  In addition, in the event that a product liability or third-party liability claim is brought against us, we may be required to recall our products in certain jurisdictions if they fail to meet relevant quality or safety standards, and we cannot guarantee that we will be successful in making an insurance claim under our policies or that the claimed proceeds will be sufficient to compensate the actual damages suffered.. Should we suffer a major uninsured loss, a product liability judgment against us or a product recall, future earnings could be materially adversely affected.  We could be required to increase our debt or divert resources from other investments in our business to discharge product related claims. In addition, adverse publicity in relation to our products could have a significant effect on future sales, and insurance may not continue to be available at economically acceptable premiums.  As a result, our insurance coverage may not cover the full scope and extent of claims against us or losses that we incur, including, but not limited to, claims for environmental or industrial accidents, occupational illnesses, pollution and product liability and business interruption.. We have a complex tax structure, and changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our results.. We have a complex tax structure and our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof.  In addition, we are also subject to periodic examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes.  There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these examinations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are also exposed to changes in tax law which can impact our current and future year's tax provision. We continue to assess the impact of the recently enacted H.R.1, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, and the Finance (No. 2) Act 2017 in the U.K. (together, the \"New Tax Laws\"), as well as any future regulations implementing the New Tax Laws and any interpretations of the New Tax Laws. The effect of those regulations and interpretations, as well as any additional tax reform legislation in the U.S., U.K. or elsewhere, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business relies heavily on trademarks, trade secrets, other intellectual property and proprietary information, and our failure or inability to protect our rights could harm our competitive position with respect to the manufacturing and sale of some of our products.. Our ability to protect and preserve our trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property and proprietary information relating to our business is an important factor to our success.  However, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property and other proprietary information without our authorization or from independently developing intellectual property and other proprietary information that is similar to ours, particularly in those countries where the laws do not protect our proprietary rights to the same degree as in the U.S.  In addition, because certain of our products are manufactured by third parties, we have shared some of our intellectual property with those third parties.  There can be no guarantee that those third parties, some of whom are located in jurisdictions where intellectual property risks may be more pronounced, will comply with contractual commitments to preserve and protect our intellectual property.. The use of our intellectual property and other proprietary information by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have developed, potentially causing us to lose sales or otherwise harm our business.  If it becomes necessary for us to litigate to protect these rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly, and we may not prevail.. Our intellectual property may not provide us with any competitive advantage and may be challenged by third parties.  Moreover, our competitors may already hold or in the future may hold intellectual property rights in the U.S. or abroad that, if enforced or issued, could possibly prevail over our rights or otherwise limit our ability to manufacture or sell one or more of our products in the U.S. or internationally.  Despite our efforts, we may be sued for infringing on the intellectual property rights of others.  This litigation is costly and, even if we prevail, the costs of such litigation could adversely affect our financial condition.. Adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and manufacturing expertise.  The loss of employees who have specialized knowledge and expertise could harm our competitive position and cause our sales and operating results to decline as a result of increased competition.  In addition, others may obtain knowledge of our trade secrets through independent development or other access by legal means.. The failure to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary information, including our processes, apparatuses, technology, trade secrets, trade names and proprietary manufacturing expertise, methods and compounds, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses and results of operations.. 13. Table of Contents. Security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology systems could compromise our information, disrupt our operations, and expose us to liability, which may adversely impact our operations.. In the ordinary course of our business, we store sensitive data, including our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information of our employees in our information technology systems, including in our data centers and on our networks.  The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this data is critical to our operations.  Despite our efforts to secure our information systems from cyber-security attacks or breaches our information technology systems may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached or disrupted due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions.  Any such attack, breach or disruption could compromise our information technology systems and the information stored in them could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen and our business operations could be disrupted.  Additionally, any significant disruption or slowdown of our systems could cause customers to cancel orders or cause standard business processes to become inefficient or ineffective, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information or business disruption could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, and damage to our reputation, which could adversely impact our operations.. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws, as well as other laws governing our operations. If we fail to comply with these laws, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, other remedial measures, and legal expenses, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our operations are subject to anti-corruption laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\"), and other anti-corruption laws that apply in countries where we do business.  The FCPA and these other laws generally prohibit us and our employees and intermediaries from bribing, being bribed or making other prohibited payments to government officials or other persons to obtain or retain business or gain some other business advantage.  We conduct business in a number of jurisdictions that pose a high risk of potential FCPA violations, and we participate in relationships with third parties whose actions could potentially subject us to liability under the FCPA or other anti-corruption laws.  In addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted.. We are also subject to other laws and regulations governing our international operations, including regulations administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce's Bureau of Industry and Security, the U.S. Department of Treasury's Office of Foreign Asset Control and various non-U.S. government entities, including applicable export control regulations, economic sanctions on countries and persons, customs requirements, currency exchange regulations and transfer pricing regulations (collectively, \"Trade Control Laws\").. We have and maintain a compliance program with policies, procedures and employee training to help ensure compliance with applicable anti-corruption laws and the Trade Control Laws.  However, despite our compliance programs, there is no assurance that we will be completely effective in ensuring our compliance with all applicable anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA or other legal requirements, or Trade Control Laws.   If we are not in compliance with the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws or Trade Control Laws, we may be subject to criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement and other sanctions and remedial measures, and legal expenses, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. Likewise, any investigation of any potential violations of the FCPA, other anti-corruption laws or Trade Control Laws by the U.S. or foreign authorities could also have an adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our outstanding indebtedness and the restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness limit our operating and financial flexibility.. We are required to make scheduled repayments and, under certain events of default, mandatory repayments on our outstanding indebtedness, which may require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, R&D efforts and other general corporate purposes, and could generally limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry.. In addition, the agreements governing our indebtedness impose certain operating and financial restrictions on us and somewhat limit management's discretion in operating our businesses.  These agreements limit or restrict our ability, among other things, to: incur additional debt; pay dividends and make other distributions; make investments and other restricted payments; create liens; sell assets; and enter into transactions with affiliates.. We are also required to comply with leverage and interest coverage financial covenants and deliver to our lenders audited annual and unaudited quarterly financial statements.  Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond. 14. Table of Contents. our control. Failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. If the Share Distribution were to fail to qualify as a tax-free transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then we and our stockholders could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities.. In connection with the Share Distribution, Capital Southwest received an opinion from a nationally recognized accounting firm to the effect that the Share Distribution should qualify as tax free under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code (\"the Code\"), except with respect to any cash received in lieu of fractional shares of CSWI common stock. An opinion of an accounting firm is not binding on the IRS. Accordingly, the IRS may reach conclusions with respect to the Share Distribution that are different from the conclusions reached in the opinion. The opinion relied on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from Capital Southwest and us regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses and other matters, which, if incomplete, incorrect or not satisfied, could alter that accounting firm's conclusions.. As part of the Share Distribution, we agreed to not take certain actions that would be inconsistent with the qualification of the Share Distribution as tax free under the Code, and we agreed to indemnify Capital Southwest for any tax liabilities resulting from such actions we take. If the Share Distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable, it could expose Capital Southwest and its shareholders to significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities for which we may be liable, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We may acquire various structured financial instruments for purposes of hedging or reducing our risks, which may be costly and ineffective.. We may seek to hedge against commodity price fluctuations and credit risk by using structured financial instruments such as futures, options, swaps and forward contracts.  Use of structured financial instruments for hedging purposes may present significant risks, including the risk of loss of the amounts invested.  Defaults by the other party to a hedging transaction can result in losses in the hedging transaction.  Hedging activities also involve the risk of an imperfect correlation between the hedging instrument and the asset being hedged, which could result in losses both on the hedging transaction and on the instrument being hedged. Use of hedging activities may not prevent significant losses and could increase our losses.. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may significantly impact our results of operations and may significantly affect the comparability of our results between financial periods.. Our operations are conducted in many countries.  The results of the operations and the financial position of these subsidiaries are reported in the relevant foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements.  The main currencies to which we are exposed, besides the U.S. dollar, are primarily the Canadian dollar, the British pound and the Australian dollar.  The exchange rates between these currencies and the U.S. dollar in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future.  A depreciation of these currencies against the U.S. dollar will decrease the U.S. dollar equivalent of the amounts derived from these operations reported in our consolidated financial statements, and an appreciation of these currencies will result in a corresponding increase in such amounts.  Because many of our raw material costs are determined with respect to the U.S. dollar rather than these currencies, depreciation of these currencies may have an adverse effect on our profit margins or our reported results of operations.  Conversely, to the extent that we are required to pay for goods or services in foreign currencies, the appreciation of such currencies against the U.S. dollar will tend to negatively impact our results of operations.  In addition, currency fluctuations may affect the comparability of our results of operations between financial periods.. We incur currency transaction risk whenever we enter into either a purchase or sale transaction using a currency other than the local currency of the transacting entity.  Given the volatility of exchange rates, there can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively manage our currency transaction risks, that our hedging activities will be effective or that any volatility in currency exchange rates will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. Forward-Looking Statements. This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements reflect the current views of our senior management with respect to future events and our financial performance.  These statements include forward-looking statements with respect to our business and industry in general.  Statements that include the words \"may,\" \"expects,\" \"plans,\" \"anticipates,\" \"estimates,\" \"believes,\" \"potential,\" \"projects,\" \"forecasts,\" \"intends,\" or the negative thereof or other comparable terminology and similar statements of a future or forward-looking nature identify forward-looking statements for purposes of the federal securities laws or otherwise.. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that relate to, or statements that are subject to risks, contingencies or uncertainties that relate to:. • our business strategy;. 15. Table of Contents. • future levels of revenues, operating margins, income from operations, net income or earnings per share;. • anticipated levels of demand for our products and services;. • future levels of research and development, capital, environmental or maintenance expenditures;. • our beliefs regarding the timing and effects on our business of health and safety, tax, environmental or other legislation, rules and regulations;. • the success or timing of completion of ongoing or anticipated capital, restructuring or maintenance projects;. • expectations regarding the acquisition or divestiture of assets and businesses;. • our ability to obtain appropriate insurance and indemnities;. • the potential effects of judicial or other proceedings, including tax audits, on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows;. • the anticipated effects of actions of third parties such as competitors, or federal, foreign, state or local regulatory authorities, or plaintiffs in litigation;. • the expected impact of accounting pronouncements; and. • the other factors listed above under \"Risk Factors.\". Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable based on our current knowledge of our business and operations, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements.  The foregoing factors should not be construed as exhaustive.  If one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize, or if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual results may differ materially from what we anticipate.  Any forward-looking statements you read in this Annual Report reflect our views as of the date of this Annual Report with respect to future events and are subject to these and other risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to our operations, results of operations, growth strategy and liquidity.  You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements and you should carefully consider all of the factors identified in this Annual Report that could cause actual results to differ.  We assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements, except as required by law."
